06 | Chief Executives Statement We have established a momentum in our business that has the potential to take us much further, as we pursue our ambition to build a world class financial services group Jim Sutcliffe, Chief Executive Chief Executives Statement | 07 We are using our high UK 1 The UK and RoW adjusted operating profit grew to quality and powerful 42 million in 2004.
Our UK asset management business, OMAM UK, and leading-edge funds supermarket, Selestia, are now well SA base to create an established.
OMAM UK had 3.4 billion of assets under management at the end of 2004 and is well positioned for growth.
international financial Selestia was on track in terms of sales, with inflows of 423 million during 2004. services company USA Our US life business produced over half our life assurance sales and hit new highs.
New premiums reached our target of $4 billion with a margin of 23% of APE.
US asset management produced excellent investment performance, with 72% of assets outperforming their customer benchmarks on a three-year basis.
Positive equity markets boosted assets under management by 20% to $185 billion.
Strong net cash flows in the USA resulted in total funds under management rising by 12% to 140 billion.
GROUP RESULTS 2004 has seen us make significant progress.
Adjusted operating earnings per share rose by 53% in Sterling and 46% in Rand, with each major SA business making a significant contribution.
Our South African life business produced its usual strong profit contribution with return on capital of We had another very profitable year at our OMSA business and 24%.
Nedcor made good progress in its recovery and a welcome return the return on equity, at 24%, continued to be at the high end to profitability, while Mutual & Federal performed strongly as the short of our target range.
Total funds under management at OMSA term insurance cycle reached its peak.
Our US businesses increased increased by 15% to R312 billion.
their combined adjusted operating profit by 25% to $337 million.
Gross sales of unit trusts were up by 52%.
Our direct sales force grew and produced an increasing volume of business.
Overall, our adjusted embedded value per share rose by 33% to 139.1p Nedcor achieved the milestones promised at the time of and by 21% to R15.08.
Good earnings, the recovery in Nedcors share its rights issue.
Tier 1 solvency exceeded the 7.5% goal.
price and rising equity markets all contributed.
The operating return on Mutual & Federal had an excellent year, with an outstanding embedded value was 19.4% and return on equity for our business rose 7.8% underwriting ratio and a return on equity of 24%.
from 14.4% to 19.1%, reflecting the progress in the business and tight capital management.
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT 1 Our US life business now accounts for roughly half of our life new Excluding other shareholders expenses and debt service costs.
Sales were up 29% on an Annual Premium Equivalent APE basis to $501 million and, as a result, assets under management in this business grew from $13.3 billion to $17.3 billion.
Margins remained at historically high levels under helpful interest rate conditions.
We continued to innovate and adapt our product range to changing customer needs, particularly in the equity index annuity and mortgage term insurance markets.
In order to bolster our ratings in support of this growth, we added a further $200 million of capital in December, making a total of $300 million for the year.
We successfully finalised the transfer of our outsourced back-office functions in order to reduce costs and improve service to customers and agents.
We expect our US life business to start paying dividends in 2007.
08 | Chief Executives Statement South African life sales fell by 10%, impacted by disappointing Our US asset management business continued to produce excellent Employee Benefit sales, and we did not recover as well as we hoped in investment performance, with 72% of assets outperforming their the broker market.
More encouragingly, our Personal Financial Advisors customer benchmarks on a three-year basis.
The developing strength PFA sales force grew by 14% to over 2,600, individual single premium of our distribution effort, combined with underlying investment sales were up 16% and unit trust sales were up 52% to R5.0 billion.
performance, delivered $12.3 billion in net client cash flow which, Group Schemes sales were up by 10%, and our overall South African life together with positive equity markets, boosted assets under management margins remained unchanged at 25%.
Almost two-thirds of Group assets under management are now for the account of US clients.
Investment performance at Old Mutual Asset Managers OMAM South Africa was good we came top in the Alexander Forbes Global Our UK start-up businesses produced positive results.
Selestia, in only Manager Watch Large Survey and 50% of our unit trusts performed in its third year of operation, had sales of 423 million, and continued to the top quartile of their comparator groups.
Our new investment product, win awards for its South African built systems and service to independent Max Investments, which brings the best of the unit trust and life financial advisors.
OMAM UK again won accolades for its investment assurance worlds to the customer, was the first product of its type to performance, and attracted high margin hedge fund investors to replace be launched in the South African market in November.
Total funds unit trust funds withdrawn by Gerrard clients.
under management at Old Mutual South Africa OMSA increased by 15% to R312 billion.
Our fledgling business in India is making steady progress and we now have over 40 branches.
We have also established a representative Nedcor achieved the milestones promised at the time of its rights office in Beijing to facilitate a Chinese life joint venture in due course.
Tier 1 solvency exceeded the 7.5% goal and new governance is working effectively to control risks.
The new management team is in Mike Levetts retirement this year is in many ways the end of an era for the place, with a clearly defined strategy.
Profits met our targets for the year Group.
He has served Old Mutual with distinction for over 46 years and and, although growth was subdued overall, there were some notable has overseen the transformation of the business into its current powerful successes bancassurance sales rose 57% for example.
Along with all my colleagues, I thank him for his great contribution remains a 20% return on equity at Nedcor by 2007. to Old Mutual and wish him a well-earned, happy retirement.
Mutual & Federal had an excellent year, producing an outstanding OUTLOOK 7.8% underwriting ratio and a return on equity of 24%.
Its reputation Market conditions in our industry are favourable at present, and the for quality service was maintained and it won the three most prestigious South African economy is strong.
The momentum we have built up customer service awards in the general insurance industry.
is expected to continue into 2005, although we will spend further amounts on the growth of our US asset management business and We have been working hard to complete the Black Economic SA life distribution systems.
We expect Nedcor to make steady progress Empowerment BEE ownership plans that are so important for the towards its 2007 goal for return on equity.
Old Mutual has shown that growth of all our South African businesses, and expect to be able to it is well able to prosper as an international financial services company, make a firm announcement on our detailed plans in this area in the and we look forward to the next phase of our journey with confidence.
Jim Sutcliffe Chief Executive 28 February 2005 Corporate Insurance Investment Asset Healthcare Management Old Mutual Old Mutual Financial Services South Africa Unit Trusts Integrity Respect Personal General Nedcor Mutual Accountability Banking Insurance & Federal Pushing beyond Boundaries US Asset US Life Capital Management Management Our Group values of Integrity, Fixed Income Life Assurance Respect, Accountability and Value Equity Pushing beyond Boundaries are central to our diverse businesses Chief Executives Statement | 09 Strategy Priorities Value creation Our strategy has not changed.
We are using In the UK our asset management businesses Old Mutual is in a very different position our high quality and powerful South African and leading-edge fund supermarket are now today from three years ago.
We have sold base to create an international financial well established exploitation of these skills non-core businesses and a number of asset services company.
More than half our life is our top organic priority.
In India, we have management companies.
We have resolved sales and nearly three-quarters of our over 40 branches and in China we have a some difficult problems and established asset management clients are now in the representative office fledgling businesses common metrics, values and methodologies USA and the UK.
under development for the long term.
Our core industry is the management of In the USA we are committed to growing Organic growth has the potential to money.
We provide high quality investment our life business at a level that will produce increase our profitability in the USA and skills to build and protect client assets.
In asset management, ensure that the international diversity of the building of our load fund platform is well the Group continues to develop.
Our We are focused on the specific needs of underway and a top organic priority.
Adding ambition remains to create value by our client base in whichever market we new affiliates with new investment styles to becoming a world class international operate.
We are built for organic growth take advantage of changing customer needs financial services company.
as well as being able to take on strategic is at the top of our strategic agenda.
We aim to Producing high returns on equity, returns build on our skills and potential in each Mutual & Federal is investing in better on assets and returns on embedded value, of our markets.
data management systems and claims and growing the base from which these handling arrangements to prepare for the are derived, are key focuses for the future.
Nedcor has a clear five-point plan.
At OMSA, our priority is attracting more customers by improving standards of investment and quality of products, as well as building our sales capability.
