CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Continued CONSUMER FINANCE FUNDING At 30 September 2004 the Consumer Finance book, comprising The Group has been active in the securitisation market throughout secured and unsecured personal loans and sales aid finance stood the year, increasingly diversifying the investor base by issuing at 891.3 million, 2003: 888.9 million.
Aggregate loan advances bonds denominated in US dollars and euros, as well as in sterling.
were 450.0 million during the year, compared with 479.8 million The increased depth of this investor base has contributed to the in the previous year.
The credit performance of our consumer reduction in coupon over LIBOR seen during the year.
books has been satisfactory and, assuming relatively full In October 2003 a 715 million securitisation of mortgage assets employment, is expected to remain so.
was completed by Paragon Mortgages No.
6 plc: in January 2004 a 500 million securitisation of Mortgage Trust originated assets was completed by First Flexible No.
6 plc: in May 2004 a 900 Paragon Personal Finance million securitisation of Paragon Mortgages and Mortgage Trust Secured personal finance advances were 305.4 million during the originations was completed by Paragon Mortgages No.
7 plc: in year, compared with 298.9 million for the previous year.
At the October 2004 a 1.0 billion securitisation, the largest Paragon year end, the secured book totalled 476.0 million 2003: 384.9 transaction to date, of assets originated by Paragon Mortgages and million.
Volumes for the year were in line with plan and were Mortgage Trust, was completed by Paragon Mortgages No.
8 plc, achieved in an increasingly competitive environment following a which also carried the lowest coupon of any of our buy-to-let very strong performance in the second half of the previous year.
issues to date: and, in December 2004, a 300 million securitisation Paragon Personal Finance has consolidated its position as a of secured loans was completed by Paragon Secured Finance leading supplier of loans to the broker market with confidence in No.
During the period the level of new During the year we replaced the Groups corporate banking facility unsecured personal loan advances was negligible.
with a 280 million facility to provide funding to support planned We expect competitive pressures in the secured loans market to new business generation.
In addition, we have increased the increase over the next year as a result of new entrants to the capacity of our warehouse funding line, through which we finance market and a cooling of the housing market.
Nevertheless, all newly originated assets prior to securitisation, from 900 million Paragon Personal Finance will maintain its position on credit to 1.3 billion at 30 September 2004 and to 1.4 billion currently.
An quality and seek further growth through prudent innovation and additional warehouse facility of 225 million is used for most of improved service through new technology.
the originations by Mortgage Trust but in due course the majority of originations by Mortgage Trust will be consolidated with those by the rest of the Group.
Sales Aid Finance The Group has been voted Best Issuer for Investor Reporting in the During the year ended 30 September 2004, new business of 144.2 2003 Structured Finance International Awards, from over twenty million was advanced by this division, compared with 172.3 million issuers nominated.
At the year end the Sales Aid Finance book totalled 208.6 million 2003: 254.6 million.
As we have reported previously, we have limited lending volumes in our retail and car finance business as a result of less than adequate returns from some of this business.
Following the removal of unprofitable distribution sources and products, the profitability of new business written has risen significantly.
We have Nigel S Terrington focused on streamlining the car finance distribution channels and Chief Executive reducing unprofitable business relationships, and have integrated the front-end administration of the retail finance business to improve service levels and reduce costs.
15 December 2004 As a result of these initiatives the profitability of our sales aid finance businesses has improved.
We will strive for further easing the capital devoted to this area.
improvement before incr 10 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 11 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Jonathan P L Perry David M M Beever CHAIRMAN NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR age 65 age 63 Jonathan Perry joined the Group as a non-executive director in David Beever joined Paragon as a non-executive director in August June 1991 and was appointed Chairman in January 1992.
He is Chairman of KPMG Corporate Finance, Vice-Chairman Chartered Accountant and between 1997 and 1999 was Viceof London & Continental Railways Ltd and a non-executive director Chairman, Investment Banking Division, HSBC Investment Bank of JJB Sports plc and Volex Group plc.
Previously he was a Director of Morgan Grenfell & Co Limited Vice-Chairman of SG Warburg & Co Ltd.
He is the Senior for 15 years.
Nigel S Terrington Robert G Dench CHIEF EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR age 45 age 54 Nigel Terrington joined the Group in 1987 and became Chief Robert Dench joined Paragon as a non-executive director in Executive in June 1995, having held the positions of Treasurer and September 2004.
He previously held various senior positions within Finance Director.
Prior to Paragon, he worked in investment Barclays, where, following a number of overseas appointments, he banking.
He is a member of the CFD Management Committee of returned to the UK and served on the boards of Barclays Retail the Finance and Leasing Association.
He was previously the Financial Services and Private Client businesses.
He is also a Chairman of the Intermediary Mortgage Lenders Association and non-executive director of AXA UK plc and of Clipper Ventures plc.
was a member of the Executive Committee of the Council of Mortgage Lenders.
Gavin A F Lickley Jonathan P L Perry Nigel S Terrington Nicholas Keen John A Heron Pawan Pandya NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE FINANCE DIRECTOR DIRECTOR OF MORTGAGES CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER age 58 Nicholas Keen FINANCE DIRECTOR Gavin Lickley joined Paragon as a non-executive director in October age 46 2002.
He retired from the Board of the Investment Banking Division Nicholas Keen joined the Group in May 1991 and became Finance of Deutsche Bank AG in April 2000, having previously been Head of Director in June 1995 having previously held the position of the Banking Division and Chairman of Morgan Grenfell & Co Treasurer.
Prior to joining the Group he worked in Corporate Limited.
He is a Chartered Accountant and is now Chairman of Banking, Treasury and Capital Markets.
He is Chairman of the Inexus Group, an owner of gas and electricity networks and Paragon Credit Committee.
Chairman of SAV Credit Limited, a credit card company.
He is Chairman of the Paragon Remuneration Committee.
John A Heron DIRECTOR OF MORTGAGES Christopher D Newell age 45 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR age 44 John Heron joined the Group in January 1986.
He was appointed as Marketing Director in 1990 and in 1994 played a pivotal role Christopher Newell has been a director of Altium Capital Limited in re-establishing the Groups mortgage lending operations as formerly Apax Partners & Co. Corporate Finance since 1990.
He is Managing Director of Paragon Mortgages.
As Director of also a director of Artemis Investment Management Limited.
He is a Mortgages, he is responsible for both Paragon Mortgages and Chartered Accountant and joined the Board of Paragon as a nonMortgage Trust.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of executive director in November 2001.
He is Chairman of the Bankers and a member of the Executive Committee of the Council Paragon Audit and Compliance Committee.
Pawan Pandya CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER age 40 David M M Beever Robert G Dench Gavin A F Lickley Christopher D Newell Pawan Pandya joined the Group in December 1988.
He was NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR appointed as Chief Operating Officer in July 2002, responsible for all operational and IT areas of the Group.
Prior to joining Paragon, he worked in foreign exchange, credit risk management, marketing and corporate finance.
12 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 13 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors submit their Report and the Accounts for the year In addition, certain directors had interests in the share capital of Substantial shareholdings ended 30 September 2004 which were approved by the Board the Company by virtue of options granted under the Companys As at 30 November 2004, being a date not more than one month before the date of the notice convening the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, on 15 December 2004. executive share option schemes and awards under the Paragon the Company had been notified of the following interests of more than 3% in the nominal value of the ordinary share capital of the Company: Performance Share Plan and the Deferred Bonus Scheme, details of which are given in the Report of the Board to the Shareholders ORDINARY SHARES % HELD Principal activity on Directors Remuneration on pages 19 to 26.
The Company is a holding company co-ordinating the activities of Schroder Investment Management Limited 15,554,836 12.97% On 25 November 2004 Mr R G Dench acquired 20,000 10p Ordinary its subsidiary companies.
The principal activities of the Group Barclays Global Investors Limited 14,372,521 11.99% Shares in the Company.
continue to be the operation of its first mortgage and consumer Morley Fund Management 8,388.975 7.00% On 30 November 2004 the following directors exercised options to finance businesses.
Merrill Lynch Investment Managers 8,362,588 6.98% acquire 10p Ordinary Shares in the Company and disposed of the M & G Investment Management Limited 6,247,884 5.21% The Chairmans Statement and the Chief Executives Review on shares thus acquired: The Paragon Group of Companies PLC ESOP scheme 6,239,021 5.20% pages 4 to 10 contain a review of the Groups business during the J P L Perry 80,000 shares Framlington Investment Management 4,820,000 4.02% financial year, its current position and future prospects.
N S Terrington 170,000 shares Threadneedle Asset Management Limited 4,282,386 3.57% N Keen 160,000 shares Legal & General Investment Management Limited 4,235,579 3.53% Results and dividends Scottish Widows Investment Partnership 3,799,357 3.17% J A Heron 185,000 shares The results for the year are shown in the Consolidated Profit and On 1 December 2004 options under the Paragon 2000 Executive Loss Account on page 34.
Share Option Scheme were granted to Mr N S Terrington 109,795 Corporate social responsibility Close company status shares, Mr N Keen 82,347 shares, Mr J A Heron 44,205 shares The directors recommend a final dividend of 5.7p per share 2003: The Group presents its policies in relation to corporate social So far as the directors are aware, the Company is not a close and Mr P Pandya 44,205 shares.
3.7p per share which, together with the interim dividend of 3.9p responsibility and issues such as community involvement, the fair company for taxation purposes.
per share 2003: 2.6p per share paid on 30 July 2004, makes a total On 2 December 2004 further awards under the Paragon and equal treatment of staff, employment of disabled persons, of 9.6p per share 2003: 6.3p per share.
After dividends, retained Performance Share Plan were granted to Mr N S Terrington 54,897 employee participation, health and safety, commitment to diversity profits of 43.7 million 2003: 32.8 million have been transferred shares, Mr N Keen 41,173 shares, Mr J A Heron 22,102 shares Creditor payment policy and the environment in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report to reserves.
The Company agrees terms and conditions with its suppliers.
Other than the above transactions, there have been no changes in Payment is then made on the terms agreed, subject to the Directors the directors' interests in the share capital of the Company since appropriate terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
The interests of the directors at the year end in the share capital of The trade creditor days figure has not been stated as the measure Contributions to charitable institutions in the United Kingdom the Company, all beneficially held, are shown below.
The directors have no interests in the shares or debentures of the is not appropriate to the business.
Information on the Groups Companys subsidiary companies.
AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2004 AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2003 charitable activities is given in the Corporate Social Responsibility Mr M J R Kelly resigned from the Board on 15 October 2003 and OR ON APPOINTMENT Report on pages 17 to 18.
ORDINARY SHARES ORDINARY SHARES Mr D A Hoare resigned from the Board on 10 February 2004.
OF 10P EACH OF 10P EACH In accordance with the Articles of Association, Mr N Keen, Mr C D Newell and Mr R G Dench will retire and, being eligible, will offer J P L Perry 309,579 309,579 themselves for re-appointment at the forthcoming Annual General N S Terrington 99,219 99,219 Meeting.
None of these directors has a service contract with the N Keen 44,116 44,116 Company requiring more than 12 months notice of termination to J A Heron be given.
appointed 15 October 2003 5,600 5,600 None of the directors had, either during or at the end of the year, P Pandya appointed 15 October 2003 - - any material interest in any contract of significance with the D M M Beever 10,000 - Company or its subsidiaries.
R G Dench appointed 29 September 2004 - - G A F Lickley 30,000 30,000 C D Newell 20,000 20,000 Non-executive directors.
14 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 15 DIRECTORS REPORT Continued CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The authority given at the previous Annual General Meeting will The Group believes that the long-term interests of shareholders, Composition of the workforce, at all levels, is reviewed on an Auditors expire at the end of this years Annual General Meeting and employees and customers are best served by our acting in a annual basis and employee satisfaction with equality of opportunity A resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as Resolution 7 seeks to renew it.
The resolution authorises the socially responsible manner.
As such the Group ensures that a high is monitored as part of the annual employee feedback surveys.
the auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming directors to allot shares for cash, other than to existing standard of corporate governance is maintained.
Human Resources policies are kept under regular review to ensure Annual General Meeting.
shareholders in proportion to their holdings, up to an aggregate that they are non-discriminatory and promote equality of nominal value of 599,400, representing approximately 5% of the opportunity.
In particular, recruitment, selection, promotion, Training and development Companys issued share capital at 30 November 2004. training and development policies and practices are monitored to Details of resolutions to be proposed as During the year the Groups accreditation under the Investors in ensure that all employees have the opportunity to train and develop special business at the Annual General People scheme, which it has held since 1997, was renewed.
This according to their abilities.
Meeting RESOLUTION 8 demonstrates the Groups commitment to the training and RESOLUTION 6 development of employees.
The staff appraisal system used by the This resolution, which is being proposed as a Special Resolution, Employees involvement Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 states that the directors may Group is designed to assist employees in developing their careers will enable the Company to purchase, in the market, up to a not exercise a companys power to allot its unissued shares unless within the Group and to identify and provide appropriate training maximum of 11.9 million of the Companys ordinary shares The directors recognise the benefit of keeping employees informed given authority to do so by resolution of the shareholders in general opportunities.
The Groups corporate training and development approximately 10% of the issued share capital at 30 November of the progress of the business.
During the year the Group has meeting.
strategy focuses on providing opportunities to develop all of its staff 2004 for cancellation at a minimum price of 10p per share and a instituted a Staff Forum, attended by elected staff representatives and is central to achievement of the Groups business objectives.
maximum price of not more than 105% of the average middle from each area of the business.
This exists primarily to facilitate The present authority of the directors to allot the unissued ordinary market quotation for an ordinary share as derived from the London communication and dissemination of information throughout the share capital of the Company was granted at the previous Annual Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days Group and provides a means by which the employees can be General Meeting on 10 February 2004 and will expire at the end of Equality and diversity immediately prior to purchase.
consulted on matters affecting them.
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 6 seeks to The Group is committed to providing a working environment in renew, for a further year, the present authority of the directors to The directors would not expect to purchase ordinary shares in the Employees have been provided with regular information on the which employees feel valued and respected and are able to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal value of market unless, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the performance and plans of the Group, and the financial and contribute to the success of the business, and to employing a 4,264,200 representing approximately 35.6% of the Companys time, they considered that to do so would enhance earnings per economic factors affecting it, through both information circulars workforce that recognises the diversity of customers.
Employees issued capital at 30 November 2004 and being one third of issued share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
are requested to co-operate with the Groups efforts to ensure the capital plus shares issuable under option.
The directors have no Any purchases made by the Company will be announced no later policy is implemented in full.
The Company operates a Sharesave share option scheme and a present intention of exercising this authority, which will expire at than 7.30 a. m. on the business day following the transaction.
profit sharing scheme, both of which enable employees to benefit The Groups aim is that its employees should be able to work in an the conclusion of the following Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of from the performance of the business.
environment free from discrimination, harassment and bullying and the Board.
that employees, job applicants, customers, retailers, business The directors encourage the involvement of employees at all levels RESOLUTION 7 introducers and suppliers should be treated fairly regardless of: by the staff appraisal process and through communication between directors, team leaders and teams.
Under Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985, any shares allotted race, colour, nationality, ethnic origins or community background wholly in cash must be offered to existing shareholders in gender, sexual orientation, marital or family status proportion to their holdings, but this requirement may be modified religious or political beliefs or affiliations by the authority of a special resolution of the shareholders in general meeting.
John G Gemmell disability, impairment or age real or suspected infection with HIV AIDS Company Secretary membership or non-membership of a trade union 15 December 2004 and that they should not be disadvantaged by conditions or requirements that are unjust or unfair.
16 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 17 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Continued REPORT OF THE BOARD TO THE SHAREHOLDERS ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Environmental policy Health and safety Remuneration policy Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The report also meets the The Group complies with all applicable laws and regulations The office environment is managed so as to comply with the The Companys policy is to ensure that executive directors are fairly relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services relating to the environment and operates a Green Charter, requirements of the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974, Workplace rewarded for their individual performance, having regard to the Authority and describes how the Board has applied the Principles implemented by: Health, Safety and Welfare Regulations 1992, COSHH Regulations importance of retention and motivation.
The performance of Good Governance relating to directors remuneration.
As 1988, Disability Discrimination Act 1995, Fire Precautions measurement of the executive directors and the determination of Ensuring all buildings occupied by the Group are managed required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve the report will Workplace Regulations 1997 and the Control of Asbestos at Work their annual remuneration packages are undertaken by the efficiently by the facilities team and building surveyors, be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is for example: Certain parts of this report are required to be audited.
Where determined by the Board.
Appropriate procedures have been established to monitor and disclosures are subject to audit, they have been marked as such.
- using low energy lightbulbs where appropriate maintain the Groups Health and Safety standards.
Monitoring is In forming and reviewing remuneration policy the Committee has - maintaining building temperatures within CIBSE guidelines undertaken internally and by external consultants and training is given full consideration to Section B.
1 of the Combined Code on organised for staff from time to time.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION - using light controls to reduce lighting in unoccupied areas The remuneration packages of the individual directors have been Remuneration committee - ensuring energy audits are carried out as part of assessed after a review of their individual performances and an condition surveys Charitable contributions The Committee consists of three non-executive directors: Gavin assessment of comparable positions in the financial sector and Lickley, David Beever and Christopher Newell.
Providing facilities and negotiating contracts to enable staff to The Group contributes to registered charities serving the local comparably sized FTSE 350 companies from all sectors.
re-cycle used products such as waste paper, toner cartridges, etc.
communities in which it operates.
In addition to the charitable The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is Gavin Lickley.
All executive directors are remunerated by a combination of fixed contributions shown in the directors report the Group made None of the directors comprising the Committee has any personal Controlling business travel and providing opportunities for staff and performance related elements.
Fixed remuneration consists of contributions of 68,406 to the Foundation for Credit Counselling.
financial interest other than as a shareholder, conflict of interest to travel to work in various ways, including installing cycle racks salary, pension scheme contributions and benefits in kind.
arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in and showers where possible.
The Group supports the efforts of the Paragon Charity Committee, Performance related remuneration consists of participation in the running the business.
which is made up of volunteer employees and which organises a Displaying a Paragon Green Charter at all sites to encourage annual bonus plan and the award of share options and of shares variety of fundraising activities throughout the year.
All employees The Committee determines the Companys policy on executive staff to be environmentally friendly at all times.
under the performance share plan from time to time.
The have the opportunity to nominate a charity and a vote is carried out remuneration and specific compensation packages for each of the performance related elements of remuneration are intended to to select the beneficiary of the years events.
No director contributes to any discussion about provide a significant proportion of the directors' potential total his own remuneration.
The Committee also reviews the level and remuneration.
structure of remuneration of senior management.
In determining the directors remuneration for the year, the Salary Committee consulted Mr J P L Perry Chairman, Mr N S Terrington An executive directors salary is determined by the Committee at Chief Executive and Mr D A Hoare former non-executive director the beginning of each year.
In deciding appropriate levels the and former Chairman of the Committee about its proposals.
The Committee considers remuneration levels within the Group as a Committee also appointed New Bridge Street Consultants LLP to whole and relies on objective research which gives up-to-date provide advice on structuring directors remuneration packages.
Directors contracts of New Bridge Street Consultants LLP advised the Company on service, which include details of remuneration, will be available for various sundry remuneration matters during the year.
inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
18 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 19 REPORT OF THE BOARD TO THE SHAREHOLDERS ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Continued Executive directors are also entitled to receive options under the Performance bonuses Share options and other share awards Directors contracts Paragon 1999 Sharesave Scheme, on the same terms as Bonuses up to a normal maximum of 125% of salary in cash can be The Companys policy is to grant options to directors under the All executive directors hold one year rolling contracts in line with other employees.
earned under performance related schemes, based upon individual Paragon 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme at the discretion of current market practice and the Remuneration Committee reviews performance and that of the Group as a whole, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, taking into account individual the terms of these contracts regularly.
Bonuses are normally paid in performance, up to a maximum of twice annual remuneration in Performance graph The current contracts are dated as follows: - November but are accrued in the year to which they relate.
For options to be exercisable, the scheme J P L Perry 1 March 2004 The following graph shows the Companys performance, measured requires the Company's total shareholder return TSR over at N S Terrington 1 September 1990 Directors have the option to receive up to one quarter of their cash by TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE All Share least three years to be higher than at least half of the TSRs for the amended 16 February 1993 bonus in the form of shares, such shares being deemed to be Speciality and Other Finance sector index, also measured by TSR.
following companies selected from the FTSE All Share Banks and N Keen 6 February 1996 acquired at the average price during the last five dealing days in the The Speciality and Other Finance sector has been selected for this Speciality and Other Finance sectors: Abbey National included up J A Heron 1 September 1990 September preceding the award.
Directors are encouraged to take comparison because it is the index that contains the largest to 12 November 2004, Alliance & Leicester, Cattles, Hitachi Credit amended 14 January and 8 February 1993 up this option by a supplementary award of an equal number of number of companies in the comparator group used by the P Pandya 1 October 1994 UK, London Scottish Bank, Northern Rock, Provident Financial and additional shares.
The shares comprising both the basic and the Company to determine the vesting of awards under the HBOS, these being a range of companies which, in the opinion of In the event of early termination, the directors contracts provide for supplementary award vest after three years.
Performance Share Plan for executive directors.
the Remuneration Committee, are engaged in businesses similar the payment of salary in lieu of notice.
In respect of the year under review, the Remuneration Committee 5 YEAR RETURN INDEX FOR THE FTSE ALL SHARE SPECIALITY to the business of the Group.
Of the directors seeking re-election at the Annual General Meeting, set the maximum cash bonus awards at 135% of salary, this level AND OTHER FINANCE SECTOR AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2004 The Paragon Performance Share Plan was approved by Mr N Keen has a service contract with the Company.
being marginally in excess of the normal limit of 125%.
This shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 11 February 2003.
200 variation from policy was regarded as appropriate to recognise and The maximum award is twice salary in any financial year.
When 180 reward the significant advance achieved in Group profits and the 160 Non-executive directors aggregated with option grants under the Paragon 2000 Executive highly successful integration of Mortgage Trust.
140 Share Option Scheme the maximum award will be over shares 120 All non-executive directors have specific terms of engagement and with a value of twice remuneration in any financial year.
Under the 100 their remuneration is determined by the Board, subject to the 80 Pension contributions plan the vesting of awards is subject to a relative TSR target.
From 1 February 2004 all non-executive 60 Companys TSR over the three year period following grant will be directors have been paid an annual base fee of 25,000 plus 2,000 During the year, four of the executive directors were members of 40 compared to that of the constituents of the FTSE All Share Banks 20 for membership of each committee, 5,000 for Remuneration the Group Retirement Benefits Plan, to which the Company 0 and Speciality and Other Finance sectors.
No part of an award 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 Committee and Audit and Compliance Committee chairmanship contributes at the same rate as for all members, while in respect of shall vest for a below median performance.
25% of the award shall The Paragon Group of Companies PLC inclusive of membership and 3,000 for the senior independent Mr J P L Perry the Company paid monthly contributions into his vest for a median performance.
Awards will only fully vest for an FTSE All share speciality and other finance sector director.
Prior to 1 February non-executive directors received personal pension scheme.
Dependants of executive directors who upper quartile performance, and between these two points awards 25,000 per annum plus an additional fee of 5,000 for the are members of the Group Retirement Benefits Plan are eligible for This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2004, of 100 will vest on a straight line basis.
The awards will lapse to the chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit committees.
a dependants pension and the payment of a lump sum in the event invested in The Paragon Group of Companies PLC on 30 September extent that the performance condition has not been satisfied on of death in service.
The pension arrangements provide for a Current terms of engagement apply for the following periods: 1999, compared with 100 invested in the FTSE Speciality and the third anniversary.
pension of 1 37.5 of basic annual salary to a maximum of 2 3 for C D Newell 1 November 2004 to 1 November 2007 Other Finance index.
The other points plotted are the values at the every year of eligible service.
Where pension contributions are TSR has been selected as the performance measure for these G A F Lickley 21 October 2002 to 21 October 2005 intervening financial year ends.
capped, additional payments are made to enable further provision.
awards because the Remuneration Committee believes it is the D M M Beever 8 August 2003 to 8 August 2006 The executive directors contribute 5% of eligible salary as clearest measure that aligns the interests of executives with those R G Dench 29 September 2004 to 29 September 2007 participants in the Plan.
The Company's TSR performance and that Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in any of the of the peer companies is independently calculated by New Bridge The changes in pension entitlements arising in the financial year, Companys incentive or pension schemes.
Street Consultants LLP before being reviewed and confirmed by the the disclosure of which is required by the Financial Services The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will be available Remuneration Committee.
Authority, are given on page 23.
There have been no changes in the to answer questions on remuneration policy at the Annual terms of directors pension entitlements during the year.
no unfunded promises or similar arrangements for directors.
20 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 21
