Our strategy Our strategy is twofold.
Drawing on our long experience in home credit, were broadening our range of credit products in the UK in order to attract new customers and offer more to those we already serve.
At the same time, were exporting our original home credit product into overseas markets that offer high potential for profitable growth.
1 More products Home credit Credit cards Car finance Motor insurance SMALL LOANS WITH AFFORDABLE REPAYMENTS VANQUIS BANK S UNIQUE VISA YES CAR CREDIT OFFERS QUALITY VEHICLES, PROVIDENT INSURANCE UNDERWRITES COLLECTED WEEKLY FROM CUSTOMERS HOMES BRANDED CREDIT CARD PRODUCTS CAR FINANCE AND OPTIONAL INSURANCES MOTOR POLICIES BROADENING OUR RANGE OF CREDIT PRODUCTS Although still very profitable, the home credit market in the UK is mature and increasingly competitive.
Thats why we started looking for new sources of growth and shareholder value by widening the choice of credit products for UK customers.
In 2002 we acquired the car finance business, Yes Car Credit.
In 2004 we completed the Vanquis Bank credit card pilot products specially designed for customers on modest incomes.
We aim to be a leading international provider of simple financial services.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 6 2 Extensive training and development are helping to ensure we have the right Mexico quality of management to CUSTOMERS 35,000 carry the strategy forward.
Poland Czech Republic CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS 941,000 230,000 More places MOVING OVERSEAS Just eight years ago we operated solely in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
Realising that the home market was becoming mature, we looked for new opportunities for profitable growth.
We opened in our first overseas markets, Poland and the Czech Republic, in Hungary Slovakia 1997.
The home credit product immediately CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS 251,000 102,000 met a need and further operations have been established in Hungary, Slovakia and Mexico.
Growth has been phenomenal and our international division now has 1.6 million customers and is contributing substantially to group profits.
As in the UK, there is the potential for broadening the product range when the time is right.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 7 Robin Ashton, Chief Executive Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 8 Chief Executives review Im delighted to present a review of our progress in 2004 a year in which, once again, our twofold strategy of broadening our product range and expanding overseas produced real value for the group.
And let me say at the start that we owe this success to the talented management and staff who have given such excellent service during the year.
I hope you find this report an interesting and informative read.
The group has again produced good results overall.
In the UK consumer credit division, the home credit operation has performed well.
In an increasingly competitive market, the business did better than expected with only a slight drop in profit.
Elsewhere in the UK consumer credit division, the Vanquis Bank credit card came through a long period of testing.
It confirmed the profitable opportunity for a differentiated credit card tailored to the needs of people with limited or no credit history, together with people who have had problems with credit in the past or earn a modest income.
There were problems at Yes Car Credit in what turned out to be a tough year for used car finance.
Its performance was worse than we expected and were working hard to put that right.
2004 was another phenomenal year for our overseas operations.
Indeed this was the year in which the international division overtook the UK in its number of home credit customers.
The business in central Europe is still growing rapidly and were pushing on with plans to expand in Mexico.
At Provident Insurance lower claims cost inflation produced results ahead of expectations.
In everything weve done, weve tried to meet our wider responsibilities by giving good service to our customers, meeting the needs of all our stakeholders and supporting the communities in which our customers, employees and agents live and work.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 9 Chief Executives review 37,319 VEHICLES SOLD AT YES CAR CREDIT 152.3m UK home credit profit before tax 76,000 VANQUIS BANK CREDIT CARDS IN ISSUE UK consumer credit Our UK consumer credit division is central to our strategy of broadening the product range in the UK.
At its heart is the home credit business providing small, home-collected loans to 1.53 million customers.
At the same time, the new Vanquis Bank credit card and the car finance business, Yes Car Credit, are helping to create new sources of growth for the future.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 10 I have loads of other options, but Provident is the best when I want a small loan.
Profile: Rosemary, home credit customer, UK, pictured right with her daughter Angela A Provident home credit loan is designed to suit people on modest incomes who want to borrow small sums quickly and easily.
Customers like the discipline of weekly collection, but also the freedom to miss a payment from time to time if things dont go to plan not to mention the personal service and the certainty of no extra charges.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 11 Chief Executives review UK consumer credit Our customers have a range of choices 72% use at least one other form of credit.
93% OF CUSTOMERS SATISFIED WITH OUR HOME CREDIT SERVICE IN THE UK 1.53m HOME CREDIT CUSTOMERS IN THE UK For customers who want to avoid financial shocks, the predictability Responsible lending of a home credit loan is built into the system.
makes a great deal of sense.
UK home credit a successful and popular product Provident has provided home credit for Some observers claim that home credit is 125 years and is the largest supplier in the an expensive way to borrow.
Our home credit service offers unsecured Annual Percentage Rate APR comparison may loans to customers who want to borrow make home credit look expensive, it should be relatively small sums of money and need noted that other forms of credit apply extra to keep tight control of their repayments.
charges that do not appear in the published APR.
Simple, transparent and suited to customers For customers using an overdraft, for example, needs, the service is a valuable source of a simple timing or budgeting error can mean an credit for people on modest incomes.
extra charge often 20 or 25 per event for a bounced cheque and for exceeding the overdraft That said, home credit is often misunderstood limit.
If a bounced cheque was intended to pay a and it is important to set the record straight.
credit card bill, theres also a charge for that Nearly 2,800 employees work in UK It is sometimes claimed that borrowers on modest missed payment.
Alternatives that look cheaper home credit incomes have no choice when it comes to credit than home credit can be costly and stressful for and so are obliged to take the home credit offer.
customers when repayments go wrong.
In reality, for most customers home credit is one In contrast, home credit carries the guarantee of many options in an increasingly crowded of no extra charges whatsoever, even if repayments marketplace for small sum credit.
Therefore, there is no way that the debt amongst other things, with credit and store can spiral out of control.
For customers who want cards, bank overdrafts and agency mail order to avoid financial shocks, the predictability of a and many of our customers have access to home credit loan makes a great deal of sense.
More than half 56% of our borrowers say they shop around before choosing a credit product, while 72% use at least one other form of credit and 70% say they have more credit options available than ever before.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 12 I like the quick service, the fact there are no hidden extras and I can manage the repayments.
Muriel, home credit customer, UK, pictured right with her agent Pam Another advantage of home credit is the part played by the agent.
Agents are paid commission on what they collect, not what they lend, so they have every reason not to lend more than their customers can afford to repay.
Responsible lending is, therefore, built into the system.
As for the customer, the agents weekly visit is not only convenient, it is a useful reminder to put the money aside.
If customers run into difficulties, they know they will get a sympathetic response and every possible assistance from their agent.
It is clear from independent research that the typical Provident customer has looked at the options and chosen home credit because its features and benefits meet their needs at a cost acceptable to them.
The product is one that customers trust and positively want to use which helps to explain why our customer satisfaction ratings are consistently high and better than those for most other financial products.
In fact, 93% of customers say they are satisfied with the Provident home credit service while 82% would recommend Provident to family or friends.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 13 Chief Executives review UK consumer credit UK home credit in 2004 After a long period of economic growth in As we expected, 2004 saw small reductions in the UK, many people are better off and have customer numbers and credit issued down 4.7% less need for small sum credit.
About half the fall was due as a whole is therefore beginning to slowly to greater competition in the market not just in contract at the same time as competition is home credit but in small sum credit generally.
Realising that this other half resulted from our own decision to be would happen, we embarked on a strategy in more selective in taking on customers through the mid-1990s to develop alternative sources certain recruitment channels.
This approach has of growth.
been successful and has yielded greater benefits than we initially expected.
At 152.3 million, profit That said, UK home credit remains enormously in 2004 was only 0.3% lower than in 2003. valuable to Provident as a successful business and a source of cash and profit for funding growth in other parts of the group.
As volumes gradually fall, our strategy is to manage the business in a way that maximises our profitability.
Through ongoing research, we know our customers are highly satisfied with our home credit service The home credit market as a whole is beginning to slowly contract and competition is becoming more intense.
But with Vanquis Bank, I know I can stay in control.
Profile: Julie, Vanquis Bank customer, UK Many people find credit cards increasingly necessary not least in allowing them to pay for things over the phone or on the Internet which often means better deals too.
As part of broadening our product range, were introducing the Vanquis Bank credit card for those who want the benefits of plastic with the reassurance of a relatively low credit card limit that is easier to control than other cards.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 15 Chief Executives review UK consumer credit TheVanquis Bank credit card has unique features that make it particularly suitable for our target customers.
Vanquis Bank As part of our strategy to broaden our product satisfactory credit quality enough to convince We intend to scale up the Vanquis Bank business range in the UK, we formed Vanquis Bank in us that a profitable opportunity exists for a new during 2005, marketing the card to completely 2003 to test whether a different type of credit kind of credit card.
new customers and some existing Provident card could win new customers for Provident customers.
Our long experience of home credit, Rather than replicating existing credit cards, in a market sector we already know very well coupled with the strong, specialist team at Vanquis the Vanquis Bank credit card has unique features through our home credit business.
Bank, will lead to a distinctive and profitable credit that make it particularly suitable for our target card business in years to come.
We expect startIt is increasingly difficult to get by without a credit customers.
Cards are available both with and up losses of about 14 million in 2005 with smaller card in todays society.
Nevertheless, there are without the normal default charges.
We also losses in 2006 and profits from then on.
many people those with limited or no credit offer fixed or variable repayments, the possibility history, those who may have had credit problems of paying weekly, fortnightly or monthly and in the past and those on modest incomes who guaranteed reductions in interest rates for do not qualify for a traditional credit card or who customers who demonstrate a good repayment do not apply because they do not want to take the record.
The approach to customers is less remote risk of incurring penalty charges for missed or late than with many other cards as Vanquis Bank payments.
In making credit cards available to more speaks to all its customers on the telephone in people in a controlled and affordable way, Vanquis order to clarify the terms of their card and help Bank is helping to expand Providents offer in the UK.
After a pilot scheme involving 90,000 customers over 20 months, it is clear we have products that appeal to our target market.
Weve seen strong demand, good customer retention and Weve seen strong demand, good customer retention and satisfactory credit quality enough to convince us that a profitable opportunity exists for a new kind of credit card.
Guaranteed 150 interest rate reductions for Credit limits at Vanquis Bank customers with start at 150 a good repayment record with Vanquis Bank Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 16 189.5m of credit issued to buy 37,248 cars in 2004 It was so friendly and straightforward.
I chose my new Yes Car Credit car and drove it home the same day.
The car finance business, Yes Car Credit, was acquired at the end of 2002.
After trading well Dave, Yes Car Credit customer, UK through 2003 and the first few months of 2004, the business hit tougher conditions from April onwards.
Volumes fell across the used car credit market by about 6% in 2004.
In addition, there were new entrants to Yes Car Credits market and competition became more intense.
For the full year, Yes Car Credits volume of cars sold reduced by less than the market as a whole, down by 1.5% to 37,319 units.
However, the reduction in sales at Yes Car Credit was greater in the second half of the year.
This sales performance was well below our expectations and would have been worse had we not spent more on advertising and opened three more branches in the early part of 2004.
The fall in sales, coupled with these extra advertising and branch costs, meant that Yes Car Credit traded at a small loss for the second half of the year.
Were working hard to improve performance by strengthening the management team and making our advertising more effective.
In the early months of 2005 we also closed two branches.
These moves will take time to deliver improvements, so results in 2005 are likely to be similar to those in 2004.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 17 Chief Executives review 68% 25% growth growth IN PROFIT BEFORE 25% TAX TO 49.2 MILLION IN CREDIT ISSUED growth TO 437 MILLION IN CUSTOMERS TO 1,559,000 International Our international division has been operating since 1997 as part of our strategy of developing new sources of growth outside the UK home credit business.
The central European businesses in Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia are well-established and profit within the division continues to grow.
Were also expanding in our newest market, Mexico.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 18 I told my agent how much I could afford to repay.
She listened and offered a loan I know I can afford.
Profile: Beatriz, home credit customer, Mexico Before we enter a new country, we go through a rigorous process of research and analysis to make sure the conditions are right and theres real demand for home credit.
After our successes in central Europe, weve now taken a leap across the Atlantic to Mexico a market that we believe will yield three million new home credit customers.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 19 Chief Executives review International The international division reported another excellent year.
Credit issued rose by 25% to 437 million and profit before tax was up 68% at 49.2 million.
The rise in customer numbers from 1.2 million to 1.6 million means that now, for the first time, our international division serves more customers than the home credit business in the UK.
The momentum continues with the division showing strong prospects for further growth.
Profit development Profit development Customer numbers 000 Customer numbers 000 49.2 Profit before tax m 1,559 1,244 29.3 960 708 8.6 466 9.0 7.2 1.1 138 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2 2004 004 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2 2004 004 Y Ye ear ended 31 December ar ended 31 December As at 31 December My agent is great she does all the paperwork with me and makes sure Im not overstretched.
Marietta, home credit customer, Hungary Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 20 Central Europe CENTRAL EUROPE Customers: 1.524 million Credit issued: 432.9 million Employees: 3,205 Turnover: 233.5 million Agents: 19,367 POLAND CZECH REPUBLIC Customers: 941,000 Customers: 230,000 Employees: 1,739 Employees: 545 44.4m 10.0m Agents: 11,144 Agents: 2,911 PROFIT BEFORE PROFIT BEFORE Credit issued: 241.1 million Credit issued: 77.4 million TAXUP34% TAX UP 13.6% Capital city: Warsaw Capital city: Prague Population: 39 million Population: 10 million Currency: Zloty Currency: Czech Crown GDP growth: 3.7% GDP growth: 2.9% HUNGARY SLOVAKIA Customers: 251,000 Customers: 102,000 Employees: 645 Employees: 276 0.5m 6.4m Agents: 3,873 Agents: 1,439 MAIDEN FULL YEAR LOSS REDUCED FROM Credit issued: 87.2 million Credit issued: 27.2 million PROFIT, A YEAR 1.6 MILLION AHEAD OF PLAN Capital city: Budapest Capital city: Bratislava Population: 10 million Population: 5 million Currency: Forint Currency: Slovak Crown GDP growth: 2.9% GDP growth: 4.2% Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 21 Chief Executives review International Central Europe has proved fertile ground for our first home credit ventures outside the UK.
Central Europe Poland Slovakia Percentage growth figures for credit issued, Poland was the first of our international businesses Slovakia, the smallest of our central European collections and turnover are calculated after to be established and remains the largest very businesses, is also growing rapidly.
Credit issued restating prior year figures at the current year much the powerhouse of the international division.
rose 83% to 27.2 million and customer numbers average exchange rate in order to present a Credit issued rose by 11% to 241.1 million and were up 64% at 102,000 against a target of 125,000. like-for-like comparison.
profit increased by 34% to 44.4 million.
Customer numbers were up by 16% and now stand at The four countries in which we operate in 941,000.
It now looks likely that Poland will central Europe have a combined population exceed the one million customer target we set about equal to that of the UK.
Consumer in 1999. markets have grown rapidly in recent years, fuelling demand for credit, and the process Czech Republic is likely to continue now that all four countries have joined the EU.
The fact that the The Czech Republic saw credit issued rising 6% population is concentrated in urban areas to 77.4 million and profit up 14% to 10.0 million.
lends itself well to a home-collected operation Customer numbers were 3% higher at 230,000. such as ours.
Weve also benefited from the The business is growing more slowly than its Polish high calibre of available employees and counterpart, but it is on course to achieve its a culture that values responsible borrowing target of 250,000 customers.
Hungary With all these advantages, central Europe has proved fertile ground for our first home 2004 was an excellent year for Hungary which credit ventures outside the UK.
developed even more quickly than expected and now has more customers than we do in the Czech Republic.
Customer numbers increased by 76% to 251,000, more than our target of 250,000. Credit issued rose 91% to 87.2 million and the business moved into profit a full year ahead of plan with 6.4 million profit.
1,524,000 CUSTOMERS IN CENTRAL EUROPE More than 3,000 employees and nearly 20,000 agents are based in Poland, Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 22 I like the fact that there are no hidden extras and that I always know exactly where I stand.
Profile: Karolina, home credit customer, Poland, pictured left with her agent Agnieszka To counter the maturity of the home credit market in the UK, we took the bold step of launching home credit in Poland in 1997.
At the time, even the optimists did not expect such excellent results so quickly.
The service was exactly what customers wanted and weve grown rapidly in our four central European markets.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 23 Chief Executives review International Mexico 35,000 CUSTOMERS IN MEXICO MEXICO Customers: 35,000 Capital city: Mexico City Employees: 163 Population: 103 million PHASED, REGIONAL Agents: 624 Currency: Peso EXPANSION TO BEGIN 2005 Credit issued: 3.9 million GDP growth: 1.3% 2.2m NET CUSTOMER RECEIVABLES Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 24 103m population of Mexico Mexico has the potential to become a substantial market in years to come.
Mexico The next steps With its 103 million population, an emerging Having proved conclusively that the home consumer economy and good economic credit model can be transferred successfully prospects, Mexico was a logical next step overseas, we continue to research new markets.
after central Europe in our long-term plan During 2005 we will focus on developing to take home credit into new markets.
With Mexico but hope to open in a new country a home credit market that we expect to reach in 2006.
Were looking particularly at large three million customers, Mexico has the countries with a stable and growing economy, potential to become a substantial market the rule of law, an urbanised population, in the years to come.
a well-educated workforce and a supportive regulatory system.
A pilot operation began in August 2003 in the city of Puebla, 100 kilometres from Mexico City.
As well as extending home credit internationally, This has performed well and now has four branches, were considering offering other forms of 600 agents and 35,000 customers.
After careful credit in the countries where we already assessment we now plan to expand the business operate.
Given that we know these markets in Mexico.
The roll-out will be phased across four well and have built up strong brand awareness regions and during 2005 we will expand in the among our customers, were in an excellent Puebla-Veracruz region.
How quickly we expand position to introduce new products should we into further regions will depend on the performance decide to do so.
of each region and the speed at which we develop local management teams and systems.
At 2.2 million, start-up costs were as expected in 2004 and are likely to be around 5-6 million in 2005.
Our home credit operation in Mexico is located in Puebla Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 25 Chief Executives review Motor insurance Profit for the year was ahead of expectations.
Motor insurance Provident Insurance specialises in noncomprehensive motor policies with particular emphasis on women drivers and second Provident sorted out family cars.
An efficient, tightly managed my claim with no fuss business with low operating costs and a good return on capital, its one of the few UK motor at all.
The garage insurers to earn profits throughout the insurance cycle.
collected my car and Unlike most insurers, Provident Insurance aims to price every policy to make a profit, even at the left a replacement.
expense of losing customers when other insurers are willing to price at a loss.
It succeeds, therefore, It was so easy.
by shrinking the business when prices are uneconomic Janet, motor insurance customer, UK and scaling up when the cycle recovers.
The division again traded well in 2004.
With prices in the industry still very competitive, its customer numbers fell 15% to 501,000 with gross written premiums declining by 13% to 164.8 million.
On the other hand its claims costs especially for personal injuries were lower than expected.
As a result, profit for the year was ahead of expectations up 21% at 34.6 million.
We are expecting market conditions and policyholder numbers to remain stable next year with results continuing to benefit from the favourable development of claims costs.
An efficient, tightly managed business with low operating costs 34.6m and a good return PROFIT BEFORE TAX on capital.
501,000 POLICYHOLDERS Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 26 Regulatory developments We work closely with politicians and officials in the UK and the EU to ensure that our industry is fairly and effectively regulated.
Following the White Paper on consumer credit and compelling and weve started the process in December 2003 the UK government has now of putting our case robustly to the Competition Our arguments published its Consumer Credit Bill.
legislation to update the 1974 UK Consumer Credit are strong and In Poland, a parliamentary committee has Act with particular attention given to fair lending compelling and been considering a minority party proposal for and transparent credit products.
We were much an interest rate ceiling since June 2004 a weve started the involved in the consultation that preceded the suggestion opposed by the Polish government Bill and welcome its proposals.
process of putting and the central bank.
Alongside other financial The EU Consumer Credit Directive is now making institutions, we continue to make it clear that such our case robustly its way through various consultative stages.
a measure is not in the interests of consumers.
to the Competition We are working closely with the relevant officials Commission.
to make sure that any new proposals take due account of the value and qualities of home credit.
In June 2004 the UK National Consumer Council made a super-complaint to the Office of Fair Trading OFT on the home credit sector.
While recognising the many attractive features of home credit, it claimed that the sector might not be fully competitive.
In the consultation that followed, we presented evidence that shows home credit is a positive aid to financial inclusion, that it competes on its own merits against other forms of small sum credit and that Provident itself is a responsible lender with transparent products and a highly valued service.
It was therefore disappointing when the OFT decided to refer the matter to the Competition Commission for a market investigation.
Our arguments are strong Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 27 Chief Executives review 1.6m GROUP COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTIONS IN 2004 9,000 More than 9,000 people take part in Provident supported community Provident projects with the West Yorkshire Financial Playhouse each year IS ONE OF BUSINESS IN THE COMMUNITYS TOP 100 COMPANIES THAT COUNT Corporate responsibility The decisions we make as a business affect the lives of millions of people customers, employees, agents, shareholders, business partners, suppliers and the wider community.
Corporate responsibility is about meeting the expectations of all these groups in a way that makes a positive contribution to our business, to society and to the environment.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 28 Weve had a great time on the Provident project.
Its really opened up new experiences for young people.
Profile: Easton, leader, Scottish Youth Hostel Association, UK As part of our commitment to communities, Provident supports a number of projects that provide new opportunities for children and young people especially in inner cities.
By working in partnership with energetic, innovative organisations in each local area, we aim to make a positive difference to peoples lives.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 29 Chief Executives review Corporate responsibility Managing our Supporting our performance Working with suppliers management and staff We have specific targets for corporate Managing our large number of suppliers is We rely heavily on the skills of our employees responsibility CR and manage our vital to the smooth running of the company.
and want every individual to achieve their full performance through a working group Through close working partnerships, we try potential.
We offer a supportive environment consisting of managers from different parts to ensure that all parties benefit from these and excellent opportunities for training of the business.
This group takes into account relationships.
We offer fair terms and have and development.
the operational and strategic interests of the an excellent payment record.
Recognising that our long-term strategy depends business divisions as we implement CR policies Our biggest network of suppliers consists of the on a good supply of high calibre managers, we and projects.
Various other working groups 31,900 self-employed home credit agents in the place great emphasis on recognising talent and deal with employee issues, our community UK and abroad.
A great deal of effort goes into making sure that good people rise quickly.
Our programme and environmental considerations.
finding agents of the right calibre and we make investment in training includes an extensive MBA sure they have support to operate successfully.
programme that has helped to produce some Serving customers outstanding managers in the UK and overseas.
Through a programme of management exchanges, We believe that CR starts by offering the were broadening peoples skills and making sure best possible products and services to our that our UK and central European businesses customers.
For instance, an important social benefit fully from each others experience.
benefit we offer is providing credit in a responsible, well managed way to people who might otherwise be excluded from the financial mainstream.
And the better we meet our customers needs, the more wealth we generate for employees, agents, investors and suppliers and the more we contribute to society at large.
I love the teachers and what we do I wish I could do this all the time.
LOuverture participant, London, UK Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 30 81% score in Business in the 90% Communitys CR index SCORE IN THE BUSINESS IN THE ENVIRONMENT SURVEY Good corporate behaviour is not just the right thing to do, its also in Were careful to manage the direct and the best interests of the business.
indirect environmental effects of our business.
JOHN HARNETT, DIRECTOR WITH RESPONSIBILITY FOR CR Health and safety During 2004 we carried out health and Our environmental management system is safety audits of UK home credit branches based on the international environmental and Yes Car Credit premises.
Audits were also standard, ISO 14001, and provides a way of carried out within the international division measuring and improving our performance.
We have a group health has now been implemented in Poland, the Czech and safety policy and a framework for health Republic, Hungary and Slovakia as well as in the and safety which have been approved by UK along with a system of internal and external the board.
A series of environmental objectives are in place to make sure we continue to improve.
Encouraging diversity As part of the process, we have set up training for some of our suppliers to help them improve We recognise that we need to do more to their environmental performance a move value the cultural and other differences that has saved costs and improved efficiency among our employees, so have made diversity for all involved.
We have a diversity policy and managing diversity is included in the Scores and rankings objectives or job descriptions of a growing Our Talking Pictures project gives pupils number of managers.
A number of our a unique opportunity to create their own For the third year running weve been employees involved in recruitment receive masterpieces included in the FTSE4Good index of the UKs diversity training.
Within our home credit most responsible companies.
We are also businesses, weve set up employee forums to now included in the Dow Jones European seek regular feedback from our employees sustainability index.
Business in the Community on diversity issues.
BitC included the company in its 2004 index on corporate responsibility and we were In 2004 a diversity training project jointly run named as one of the Top 100 Companies that with the West Yorkshire Playhouse in Leeds won Count by The Sunday Times in its coverage of Provident an Arts & Business award for progress the index results.
We were also pleased to on diversity in the workplace.
score 90% in BitCs 2004 Business in the We are members of the Employers Forum Environment index and 81% in its CR index.
on Disability, Opportunity Now and Race These scores and rankings were important for Opportunity.
accomplishments but they also highlighted areas for improvement including more CR training The environment for employees, and better measurement and Over time, we aim to reduce our environmental reporting on diversity.
The work goes on to improve impact and to make our operations increasingly our performance year-on-year.
compatible with the principles of sustainable development.
As a financial organisation, More than 200 employees took part our work has few direct impacts on the in Providents annual cross-country fun run environment other than the use of energy, to raise money for charity water and paper and the polluting effects of transport.
Nevertheless, were careful to manage both the direct and indirect environmental effects of our business and have a systematic plan for improving our performance.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 31
