GROUP CHIEF A WORLD OF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OPPORTUNITY JONATHAN BLOOMER GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE In 2004, each of our regional businesses delivered double-digit UNITED STATES growth in sales and profits.
As a result, we achieved record Group The US is the largest long-term savings market in the world, with insurance annual premium equivalent APE sales, and a 23 per cent considerable opportunities for growth.
increase in new business achieved profit compared with 2003.
Jackson National Life is an industry leader in distributing products We achieved these results by adopting a disciplined approach to and is able to react quickly to market changes, establishing strong investment and growth, allocating capital to those businesses that positions in new products and channels.
In 2004 it increased new deliver sustainable high returns.
At the same time, we managed business achieved profit by 18 per cent, to 156 million, with our risks by maintaining a diversified portfolio of businesses nearly 90 per cent of new sales coming from products developed across our chosen markets, principally in the UK, the US and Asia, in the last two years.
including several mature cash generators, as well as attractive The business continues to fund its own growth, including small newer businesses which require investment.
acquisitions, such as that of Life Insurance Company of Georgia, Going forward, we see excellent growth opportunities across announced in November.
It also contributed US$120 million to the the Group.
Group in 2004, and this is expected to increase to US$150 million in 2005.
UNITED KINGDOM In 2005, we expect the US market to grow at about four per cent The UK insurance market is starting to recover from three years and Jackson National Life to grow sales at around twice this rate, of decline.
During this period, we transformed our UK insurance while keeping its costs down and delivering above market returns.
business from a direct-sales operation, selling with-profits products, into a company that sells mainly shareholder-backed products ASIA through a range of channels, including independent financial The Asian economies consistently high growth rates and favourable advisers, business to business and partnership agreements with demographics, together with the trend towards allowing greater other companies.
We also improved our efficiency and broadened access and ownership to foreign financial services players, make our product range.
These changes enabled us to take advantage these markets very attractive for Prudential, and we have a strong of the upturn in the market in 2004, and resulted in a 40 per cent record of success in the region.
rise in new business achieved profit year-on-year.
In the past decade we have expanded across 12 countries and Over the next few years, we see new opportunities arising from delivered APE compound growth of 26 per cent per year, while the creation of multi-ties, and we have won places on many of the maintaining margins above 50 per cent.
In 2004, new business multi-tie panels announced to date.
We expect these agreements achieved profit rose 19 per cent.
to begin to have an effect on our performance in 2005, and to make an increasing contribution thereafter.
We are now Europes leading life insurer in Asia in terms of market coverage and number of top five market positions.
We have also The Rights Issue, announced in October 2004, will allow us to take established a complementary regional funds management business advantage of these developments in both our business and the in seven markets and are setting up a fund management operation marketplace.
In 2005, we expect sales to grow by about 10 per cent from our We see very good growth prospects in the region, particularly in 2004 base, against an industry expectation of around five per cent India and China, and we are well placed to take advantage of these.
We are aiming for a blended internal rate of return on this business of 14 per cent.
All year-on-year comparisons of financial performance are at constant exchange rates CER, unless otherwise stated.
PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 03 GROUP CHIEF A WORLD OF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OPPORTUNITY CONTINUED In India, our joint venture with ICICI delivered APE sales growth EGG of 127 per cent and continues to be the leading private sector Egg has closed its loss-making French operation and has player.
In 2004, the Indian government announced its intention recently put its Funds Direct business on the market.
It is to allow increased foreign ownership in Indian companies, and now firmly focused on its profitable core UK business, where we remain interested in increasing our stake in the joint venture.
it achieved underlying profit of 74 million in 2004.
This was a However, the relevant legislation has not yet been put before good performance from Eggs UK business, especially given the the Indian Parliament.
increased competition and rising interest rates that have affected the credit card and personal loan markets.
Eggs effective cost In China, our joint venture with CITIC is one of the countrys management and good credit quality also contributed to the solid leading foreign players, and it achieved new business APE growth results from its UK operation.
We already operate in three cities, and will launch our fourth operation, in Shanghai, in the second quarter Looking ahead, Egg will continue to develop its UK operation, of 2005.
We have recently received licences for two further cities, building its unsecured lending business, while expanding its and a licence to write Group Life insurance business.
We expect product range to increase cross-sales to existing customers.
to continue to develop rapidly in China as geographic licensing We expect Egg to finance its own growth without requiring restrictions ease further.
capital support from the Group.
We are confident of our ability to grow strongly and profitably in the region, and our Asian business remains on track to become OUTLOOK cash positive from 2006.
Prudential has built strong positions in three of the most attractive savings markets in the world.
Each of the businesses is performing M&G well, and is positioned to take advantage of the opportunities M&G provides high quality investment management services for in its respective market.
We are on track to deliver sustainable, Prudentials customers, and is also a leading UK manager of retail profitable growth and to achieve our target returns on capital in investment funds and institutional fixed income and pooled life 2005 and beyond.
At the end of 2004, it had total funds under management of 126 billion.
External funds under management rose by 19 per cent during the year to 28.7 billion, due to a combination of net fund inflows from both retail and institutional clients and market gains on existing funds.
In recent years, M&G has developed profitable new income streams while keeping a tight control over costs.
This powerful combination has resulted in underlying profit of 110 million, up 57 per cent on 2003.
We expect M&G to continue to perform strongly in 2005.
