Group CEOs industry overview One of the major issues to arise for the US insurance market During 2004 although we continued to during 2004 was the Spitzer enquiry into the use of contingent see significant changes in regulation, issues commissions and allegations of bid rigging by some brokers and arising from the compensation framework insurance companies.
In the UK contingent commissions are a common feature.
The fundamental issue is not their payment, within the US and a higher level of catastrophes, rather it is about transparency and brokers duciary duties to investment markets continued to recover.
The act in the interests of their customers.
We are broadly supportive tsunami of 26 December 2004, while a human of any move that would improve transparency for customers.
The issue of potential bid rigging is much more clear cut: it cannot tragedy on an unprecedented scale, has not be condoned.
translated into major losses for the industry.
Work is ongoing in the US to nd a new mechanism to deal The FTSE 100 climbed nearly 7% over the year and the Dow with asbestos related claims.
However, the various attempts Jones by nearly 3%: both good news for companies balance to bring legislation acceptable to all parties before Congress sheets.
However the continuing developments in regulatory have to date proved unsuccessful.
The issue continues to receive capital requirements meant that the need to rebuild capital much attention, including speeches by President Bush calling strength continued to be a major priority across the industry.
for reform, but the trust fund proposition, while the subject of Reserve strengthening, largely driven by developments in claims much debate, continues to have a long way to go before the for long tail liabilities, remained a feature and we continued various stakeholders are likely to agree to it as an approach.
to see companies raise capital in the debt and equity markets.
In the US, the need for tort reform has been recognised with While experience on rating does vary by class, we did not see the recent passing of Senate Bill 5 the Class Action Fairness Act.
widespread reductions in premium rates during 2004 and AM While the new Bill only applies to prospective class actions it is Best characterised the January 2005 renewal season in Europe as a step toward improving the overall litigation environment in disciplined.
Claims ination continued to run at a level which the US and we hope will provide impetus to other tort reform is within industry expectations.
In commercial lines, single digit related proposals.
premium rate increases were achieved where in previous years we had seen rises in the tens of per cent.
In the personal lines For 2005, developments in regulation will again lead to major of business, downward pressure on rates and some easing of changes for the industry.
The implementation of the Insurance terms and conditions continued in 2004.
At Royal & SunAlliance Mediation Directive is particularly significant.
The move to we have charged and will retain our commitment to charging International Financial Reporting Standards will lead to significant the correct rate for each risk.
This can be seen in the increases alterations both to the way in which results are presented and that we are applying in UK personal motor and household, which the way in which investors will need to interpret them, an issue are ahead of the market.
We will not sacrifice profitability for that is discussed in detail in the Chief Financial Ofcers report.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 17 Operating review UK A key priority for our underwriting operations is to continue During 2004 we have completed the restructuring to develop and apply market leading capabilities in the pricing of our UK business.
We have capitalised on the and selection of risks.
In the area of claims, we will continue strength of the franchise of our Commercial to focus on the active management of indemnity costs, which account for 95% of total claims costs.
We aim to achieve further lines business and substantially improved the reductions in expenses and to create a more exible cost base performance of our Personal business, which through improved operational efficiency and outsourcing.
produced a combined operating ratio of 98.4%.
Business progress against strategies With the successful sale of our life operations The UK business is the largest operating unit within the Group we have completed our long term aim of and produced excellent results during 2004, with an overall COR becoming a pure general insurer.
We have achieved significant performance improvements and Overview of major strategies cost efficiencies, and developed a high performance culture.
Commercial has an excellent franchise in a large and mature In particular, we realised annualised expense savings of 123m market with significant profitable segments and niches.
We by improving operating efficiency.
We reduced labour costs and aim to maintain and develop our profitable performance by increased productivity through a combination of restructuring sharpening propositions, enhancing underwriting practices, and business process outsourcing.
Total headcount now stands and improving performance management.
We will continue at 10,900, down 15% in 2004. to concentrate on market segments where we can offer focused value propositions to ensure our ability to win and Following a successful pilot, in which 100 sales, servicing retain profitable business.
We will continue to rene our focus and claims roles within MORE TH N motor were outsourced on technical price.
Bottom line profitability is paramount, and offshore in March 2004, we announced in October that a will not be compromised for the sake of market share.
further 1,100 roles would be outsourced to India.
We anticipate significant cost economies while ensuring an efficient and exible In Personal, by bringing together MORE TH N and our service to our customers.
We are applying the same performance intermediated operations to create a single integrated personal criteria as in the UK to ensure a consistent standard of service.
lines business we aim to realise further improvements in efficiency and to generate economies of scale.
A key objective is to generate We have also outsourced a range of non core activities, further profitable growth through MORE TH N. Having including facilities management, with the aim of improving reorganised and refocused our intermediated businesses, we service delivery and reducing costs.
In the first quarter of 2004 have a good platform from which to pursue profitable growth we appointed Accenture to provide IT application development in our chosen segments.
All of these actions will contribute to and maintenance services on an outsourced basis.
These initiatives the expense ratio reductions that we have targeted.
support our plans to create a more exible and efficient operation over the next two years.
Outsourcing many of our IT functions We are instilling an uncompromising performance culture has reduced related headcount from 1,170 in 2002 to 160 in throughout the UK operation, while targeting further business 2004, and overall IT expenses by 24% since the end of 2002. improvements and cost efficiencies.
We plan to continue Delivery of the first phase of a major new IT platform across developing our technical excellence in underwriting and claims, the business is complete, with our new claims system going and to further develop our segmentation of, and propositions live at the end of November 2004.
We have also made a range to, customers.
This will secure our ability to trade profitably of significant improvements to our IT infrastructure.
We have achieved significant performance improvement and cost efficiencies, and developed a high performance culture.
Duncan Boyle UK Chief Executive 18 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 We continue to rationalise premises: operating from 33 ofces, traditional back ofce set up, split between 23 locations, to a down from 93 at the beginning of 2003.
This will deliver long single claims business based around a small number of centres term benets through more efficient space utilisation and of excellence and combines 16 legacy systems into one main reduced overall costs.
claims management system with embedded process control.
In November we launched a dedicated nationwide motor vehicle Underwriting repair centre network exclusively for Royal & SunAlliance We have pursued a range of initiatives focused on improving customers.
This allows us to ensure a consistent standard of risk selection and pricing sophistication.
We are also applying service and a more fair, transparent and predictable relationship considerable resources to strengthening our underwriting with suppliers.
control environment across both Commercial and Personal.
Our high standard of customer service on claims provides In Commercial, we have benefited signicantly from a significant point of differentiation in the market.
A good improvements in our underwriting processes, notably in areas illustration was provided in Boscastle, in the UK, after the such as middle market, where we have reduced leakage by ooding last summer when our claims team was first on almost 25% over the last two years.
This effect is particularly the scene providing practical help and assistance.
evident within the property portfolio where our combined operating ratio of 81.8% remains exceptionally good.
Commercial We have continued to anticipate and respond to the insurance Commercial delivered another market leading result in needs of particular customer segments through new product 2004, achieving a COR of 93.5%.
This reects our continued development.
A good example is the new Aquaculture product achievement of technical price as well as the current favourable launched in October 2004 an innovative bespoke package claims environment.
We have a proven track record of profitability.
product designed to meet the needs of the UKs rapidly Our focus on profit not volume as our key driver is demonstrated expanding modern sh farming industry.
by the 1% increase in premiums in 2004, excluding the effect of the Munich Re quota share.
We have clearly demonstrated Claims our willingness to sacrifice revenue rather than compromise During 2004, the claims business commenced a major change underwriting discipline.
This will fundamentally transform our claims operation, reinforcing our position as a market leading claims We continue to be a leading player in our chosen markets.
A key part of our new strategy is active 10.3% we have the second largest share of the UK commercial supply chain management, allowing us to leverage our 500m insurance market, made up of property 14.2%, 2nd, liability direct annual spend.
Following rigorous benchmarking, in 8.9%, 2nd, and motor 14.4%, 2nd.
October 2004 Lloyds TSB selected us as its personal property The breadth of our product range and the diversity of customer supply chain partner.
This is testament to our market leading segments in which we operate are, we believe, unmatched in the capabilities.
In November 2004, we also launched a commercial market.
Our ability to offer multi class underwriting capability supply chain network, the first end to end solution in the market, from a single source is a significant competitive differentiation.
which saw us taking full control of the process.
For instance, benchmarking research by the independent research Our new technology enabled model, in which functions are organisation Defaqto found that our Enterprise products for centralised and claims segmented on the basis of complexity, shops are among the best in the market and our ofces and went live on schedule in November and has delivered multi combined risks product are the best of their type.
The new model moves us from a UK m 2004 2003 General business Net premiums written 2,594 2,849 1 Underwriting result 106 21 General business result 381 309 Overall combined operating ratio COR 94.9% 99.4% Return on capital employed 26% 18% 1.
As announced at our year end results on 10 March 2005.
The major difference between this and the breakdown on page 90 relates to reorganisation costs Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 19 Operating review continued UK We have continued to prioritise profitability during 2004 by in 2003.
MORE TH N performed strongly, delivering a COR reviewing existing customers by segment against consistent of 96.8%, while intermediated achieved a COR of 102.2%, metrics and repricing marginal business.
Through initiatives down from 105.5% in 2003.
These results show the benets such as the Target Trades programme launched in 2003, of our stance on writing for profit as we have continued to we have clearly articulated our appetite for different types drive premiums up ahead of the market, with increases of 6% of business and actively pursued profitable business.
We have on motor and household during 2004. also focused strongly on identifying and retaining attractive Overall Personal lines premiums have fallen by 34%, due business, and pursued a concerted and successful campaign in large part to the sale of the UK Healthcare & Assistance to win back profitable customers.
business in 2003 and the cessation of renewals of the HBoS Alongside this work, we have continued to develop and book of business from 1 January 2004.
Excluding the effects revitalise distinct and clearly differentiated propositions for of the Munich Re quota share, personal intermediated specic segments within our target markets.
Within the small premiums fell by 56%, reecting significant restructuring and medium sized business SME segment, for example, we of the motor book during 2003 and the HBoS exit.
On the have moved to a centralised model, developed an e trading same basis, MORE TH N premiums grew by around 3% capability and in January 2004 introduced a direct proposition, against a background of a highly competitive market and MORE TH N Business.
our continuing commitment to maintaining rates.
MORE TH N Business targets the growing number of SMEs We continue to be a leading player in our chosen markets.
with a turnover of under 1m looking to purchase insurance We are the third largest motor and household insurer with direct and complements our mainstream book of commercial a market share of around 9%.
business sold through brokers and intermediaries.
With around There is now a single unied management structure in place three and a half million small businesses in the UK, there is a across Personal, supported by an integrated operations function.
clear opportunity to build SME market share through both direct Major systems developments are underway that will create a and intermediated channels.
This will generate significant In September 2004, we further rened broker segmentation by cost savings and enhanced operational exibility and efficiency.
launching a new proposition, Access, designed to offer improved The site rationalisation programme begun in 2003 continued: availability for lower volume brokers to our expertise on more we have reduced service centres from 13 to six during that time.
All of these actions are contributing to driving down operating expenses towards our target levels.
We have implemented a range of initiatives designed to maximise the effectiveness of our people, through best in class training, The success of our investment in the MORE TH N brand is a license system for underwriters, and the creation of separate reected in our brand awareness tracking which showed that underwriting and sales teams.
We have also continued to focus on at the end of 2004 we had awareness of 80%, up from 68% at centralised operational performance management, introducing the start of 2003.
Insurance covers in force have risen by 15% processes and systems designed to maintain discipline on pricing, in the last two years, passing the two million mark, over 25% risk accumulation and risk appetite.
of motor sales are now via the Internet, and over one third of new sales were cross selling to existing customers.
We continue Personal lines to target an expense ratio of 25% or below for MORE TH N Following a major restructuring of our intermediated by the end of 2005: at the end of 2004 it stood at 27.4% business in 2003, Personal continues to produce much including nearly two points resulting from investment in our improved results with a COR of 98.4% down from 103.7% performance improvement programme.
Our central aim going forward is to maintain our underwriting discipline across the cycle.
20 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 We remain concentrated on refocusing and reorganising the We will continue to drive down costs, outsourcing non core intermediated side of the business and have successfully roles wherever there is a sound business case for doing so.
secured a number of significant new business deals including In Commercial, we believe we are well positioned to sustain schemes with Honda and MG Rover Group.
Our aim is now to profitability through the cycle.
Work based around micro grow profitably.
segmentation, improved customer analysis techniques and sharpening our customer propositions will continue.
We also Market and economic conditions intend to increase investment in our branding.
The rating environment is plateauing across many segments of the market although experience does vary across classes.
Personal will continue to pursue initiatives to improve operational efficiency.
We will also be rolling out our In the commercial market we remain well placed to manage dynamic pricing programme, which is already live for through the cycle based on our strong relationships and leading MORE TH N motor renewals, during 2005 and 2006 position in our chosen markets, the agility we derive from a to enhance the sophistication of our pricing across the diversied book of business, and our disciplined approach to operation.
For MORE TH N we will particularly be cycle management.
Our strategy of not following the market targeting the expected increased numbers of customers down has been clearly articulated, both internally and externally, purchasing cover via the Internet.
and we have demonstrated our willingness to sacrifice premium volume to maintain profitability and build long term sustainability.
These and the other initiatives highlighted above will all contribute to our continuing ability to control and direct a The personal lines market is experiencing increasing competition.
successful modern general insurance business generating Tough conditions in private motor in particular are expected to attractive returns on shareholders equity.
result in continued pressure on loss ratios across the market.
This reinforces our determination to drive our change programme through to lower our cost base to match our excellent loss ratio performance.
Outlook Our central aim going forward is to maintain our underwriting discipline across the cycle.
We will seek at all times to ensure that business is at or above its technical price.
Building on initiatives already in place, we will be implementing new technology enforced rules and controls, strict underwriting guidelines and standardised metrics to ensure continued discipline on risk selection and pricing.
We will also be implementing a new system of performance based reward.
While remaining focused on reducing underwriting and claims leakage, sharpening our propositions and achieving high rates of business retention, we will be looking to embed operating excellence at all levels within the business.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 21
