Group CEOs review potential options for the business.
As part of this process we This is my second year of reporting to you as have submitted our risk based capital plans to them, including Group CEO and its been one in which we have the proposed sale of non standard auto, which is the right action made real progress.
Weve delivered on the to achieve an appropriate level of capital support in the US.
We have also appointed Bill Shea and Mike Crall to the US Board, key objectives that I set out in last years report both of whom have senior leadership experience in the US and are well positioned to continue moving financial services industry.
Achievement of strategic objectives Our achievements include successfully restructuring the The objectives that we had set ourselves for 2004 fell under business by disposing of our UK and Scandinavian life operations three broad headings: as well as other sub scale or poorly performing businesses.
Weve strengthened our capital position by rewording our Structure and business focus Eurobonds and issuing new Upper Tier II capital.
We have also Leadership and culture signicantly improved our operating performance in all of our ongoing operations through a combination of restructuring Balance sheet our portfolio of businesses and the success of our operational All are important and each has its own detailed section later in the improvement plan.
In addition, this year we have also introduced a detailed We now have a portfolio of ongoing general insurance section on the work that we are doing with our customers.
businesses with strong market positions that we believe can The customer remains central to what we do.
Much of achieve sustainable profitable performance and where we will the investment we have made as part of our performance be seeking selected growth while remaining committed to improvement programme is designed to improve our products providing insurance covers rmly based on the right technical and services for them at the same time as managing down our price for a risk.
We will not discount premium rates simply to infrastructure and services costs.
It is our cost saving programme, maintain or increase overall premium volume.
Of course, with the together with the work that has been done to improve our dynamic and challenging business environment that we operate claims management, which will allow us to keep our technical in, we will continue to revisit our objectives and ensure that they price as competitive as possible.
remain in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The major issue during the year, as expected, was our US Structure and business focus operation: while the transition of the business is complete, Considerable work had already been done in 2003 to improve the result remained challenging and impacted the Groups the structure and organisation of the Group based on our performance.
We have tight management controls in place strategic review.
Wed taken action both in areas that were a to ensure that the right actions are taken and steady progress problem for us and those where we were looking to maximise is being made but, with an operating loss of 274m including on a particular strength.
the 160m of reserve strengthening in the fourth quarter, it is We dened problem areas not only as those where we had obvious that risks remain.
That said, the actions that have already legacy issues or results were poor and we couldnt identify been taken have reduced our exposure and, in 2005, we will a remedial plan that we could implement on an acceptable work to develop a platform from which to drive a structural timescale, but also as those where, despite reasonable results, change.
The transition programme implemented in 2004 the investment required in the business was simply more than has delivered greater stability and allowed us to engage we were willing to make.
in constructive discussions with the US regulators on other Following the actions taken during 2004, we have now developed a well balanced portfolio of businesses with strong market positions.
Andy Haste Group CEO 4 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Within this context, we completed our exit of the life market with the position of Group Risk Director is now a Board level the sale of our UK and Scandinavian life operations in the second appointment and the Group Company Secretary position now half of the year.
This achieved our goal to be a focused general also encompasses the role of General Counsel.
Our new Chief insurer and derisked our activities.
We also continued to dispose of Financial officer, George Culmer, joined the Group on 1 May 2004. or exit certain lines of business: for example we sold our operations When we talk about the Groups culture were referring to in Japan and Pakistan and ceased renewals of personal lines the way things get done.
I talked at length last year about the business with HBoS in the UK at the beginning of 2004. work being done to embed a strong performance culture across Following the actions taken during 2004, we have now the Group and how vital it was to our improvement and future developed a well balanced portfolio of businesses with strong success.
In support of this, progress has been made in realigning market positions.
In the UK we are the second largest general reward structures for 2005 to support the new culture at all insurer, with leading positions in both commercial and personal.
At executive level, reward systems have Our UK commercial franchise is well established and profitable, been made more heavily dependent on performance.
At other performing ahead of the market.
In Scandinavia, we have a good levels, a reward policy of competitive base pay and generous business that is well positioned across the region and with Codan benets, where little depended on performance, is being in Denmark and Trygg-Hansa in Sweden we have very strong replaced by one which reduces the emphasis on xed reward local brands.
Our International businesses, which comprise and increases performance related bonus potential focused operations in 21 countries including Canada, Ireland and Italy and on key result areas such as underwriting for profit, as well as others in Latin America, Asia and the Middle East, are performing recognising individual contribution.
strongly and, while we may make further minor changes to this portfolio, the major actions have been completed.
Balance sheet Work to optimise our balance sheet and improve our capital During 2004, performance improvements have been achieved position continued throughout the year.
This and the changes across all of our ongoing businesses with the UK, Scandinavia to the regulatory environment that were introduced in 2004 and International all achieving combined operating ratios CORs and that have come into effect in 2005 are discussed in detail of less than 100%: in all cases an improvement on 2003.
These in the Chief Financial Ofcers report.
are excellent results that reect the quality of the franchise and the work weve done to reshape the portfolio.
They have been We have taken a number of actions to strengthen our capital achieved by focusing on underwriting and claims discipline and position during 2004, including increasing our Upper Tier II driving down costs: actions that will ensure we continue to meet capital by some 450m, 150m of which was used to repay our our target of a 100% combined ratio on average across the cycle Yen denominated subordinated loan, and rewording our 500m for our ongoing businesses as we move forward.
While the Eurobond to ensure that this would count as regulatory capital.
process will continue to be challenging, particularly in the US, we The capital position has also benefited from the strategic exit of have made significant progress in delivering on our strategy of the UK and Scandinavian life businesses.
At 31 December 2004, we running general insurance businesses that can deliver sustainable showed a proforma surplus of approximately 0.6bn over our profitable performance.
required capital under the Insurance Groups Directive and were also compliant under the other key capital measures by a Leadership and culture comfortable margin.
I continued to supplement the strengths of my leadership team We remain focused on managing our capital position and throughout the year.
I made new appointments in risk, David improving our credit rating with the major rating agencies.
Paige who joined in February 2005, and company secretarial, We made progress during 2004 in both of these areas but Mark Chambers who joined in October 2004.
For the first time work remains to be done.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 5 Group CEOs review continued Risk underwriting profit.
The result improved for both commercial The Risk Management section of the Corporate Governance and personal lines of business and reects the benets of our Report details our approach to managing our risks.
During 2004 performance improvement programme, better risk selection the Board has reviewed the Groups appetite for risk, establishing and our low cost operating platform.
This framework, overseen International had a strong year with a COR of 96.6% and by the Board Risk Committee, is designed to manage the risk of an underwriting profit of 45m.
Management actions taken the Group failing to achieve its business objectives.
in Canada to address underperforming segments of the The revised Risk Management Framework ensures not only business have improved the COR by over six points to 96.6%.
that we are compliant with the Financial Service Authoritys The improvement in Canadian commercials COR was 15 points.
Prudential Sourcebook but also that we address all of the risks Weve delivered a strong year from our ongoing businesses with we face.
An example of the success of these actions was seen all achieving CORs of less than 100% driven by our restructuring during the 2004 hurricane season.
Following our strategic exit actions, pricing discipline, claims handling efficiency and the of territories and lines of business that had major exposure to benets of our operational improvement programme.
hurricanes, our exposure was much more limited, amounting to around 14m: prior to the restructuring our estimated In the US, the operating loss of 274m included 160m of reserve exposure across the Group would have been around 150m.
strengthening, primarily in the workers compensation line.
John Tighe and his team have made great progress in stabilising The new framework also led to a change in the way that we the business, reducing headcount by 68% and expenses by 61%.
approach our reinsurances both in terms of the assessment of In 2004 the expense base was reduced by $270m.
The transition reinsurer credit risk, with a central function to assess their financial of the book is now complete.
With the stabilisation achieved in strength, and the way in which we structure our reinsurance 2004 they have begun to focus on structural change, reducing programmes.
For instance, in 2004 we implemented a more the number of insurance entities in 2004 from 25 to 10, lowering coordinated approach to the purchase of treaty reinsurance: capital requirements by around $90m.
They have also cut the we have common terms, better pricing and single self insured number of domiciliary states from 11 to six, which reduces the retentions for major catastrophic events.
Results While theres more work to be done, particularly in the US, Weve driven strong operational performance in 2004 with a Im pleased with our performance in 2004.
More detail on the COR for our ongoing businesses of 94.0%, nearly three points results can be found in the Chief Financial Ofcers report.
Including the US reserve strengthening, the Group operating result was 456m, up from 140m last year.
Performance improvement programme In parallel with actions taken on the portfolio, people and Looking at our core Regions: in the UK we produced a COR balance sheet, we have acted to signicantly improve and of 94.9%, four and a half points better than in 2003, with a sustain the performance of our ongoing businesses.
The continued excellent performance from commercial and a much key message is that this isnt about a one off improvement improved personal result.
The commercial underwriting profit in performance.
It is about sustaining that performance and of 92m was up by nearly 20% year on year, while personal building in the exibility and agility to respond to changing produced a profit of 14m compared to a loss of 56m in 2003. market conditions, in part through governance processes that In Scandinavia, the COR of 95.4% is nearly four points better are designed to respond to both internal and external factors.
than in 2003 and represents a 55m improvement in the Group m 2004 2003 General business Net premiums written 5,206 6,630 1 Underwriting result 231 621 General business result 433 83 Overall combined operating ratio COR 103.4% 108.0% Return on capital employed 8% 3 % 1.
As announced at our year end results on 10 March 2005.
The major difference between this and the breakdown on page 90 relates to reorganisation costs 6 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 As discussed in last years report, in the lead up to our rights issue resolved many of our legacy and performance issues.
I know in 2003 I took a rigorous look at the Groups existing operational that it is through the determination and hard work of our people plans and concluded that they were not sufficient to sustain worldwide that we have achieved so much.
profitable performance: not least because none of the plans Going forward, we have five priority areas.
First, we will continue had been tested against changes in the insurance cycle.
After to work to nd a solution to the challenges remaining in the US: doing this testing it became clear that the gap between where in 2004 we delivered greater stability to the operation: in 2005 we needed to be and what our performance was going to be we will focus on structural change.
Weve begun this with the was significant.
Working with the regional CEOs we identied two new board appointments and started business disposals.
the actions necessary in pricing, underwriting, claims and Secondly, we will continue to focus on our ongoing business.
expenses to close the gap.
In each of our markets we see opportunities to improve the This work manifested itself with the two new targets that we franchise and target profitable growth.
We have deliberately gave at the time of our 2003 rights issue, the 100% combined chosen the portfolio that we will take forward and there is a lot ratio on average across the cycle for our ongoing businesses of detail in this years report on the advantages and opportunities and the delivery of 270m of annualised expense savings.
that this franchise gives to us.
Thirdly, we must continue to The costs to achieve the expense savings are being taken as produce results in line with our targeted financial returns.
restructuring costs and result in a one off charge of 300m.
We will not pursue growth at the expense of profit.
This is The investment and benets associated with achieving our underpinned by our fourth priority, the delivery of our underwriting and claims targets are being carried through performance improvement programme.
This programme is our operating result.
By the end of 2004 we had incurred costs designed to give us a competitive advantage in the market and, of 241m and achieved 190m of annualised expense savings.
importantly, to ensure that this advantage is sustainable.
Finally, The success of the programme is being seen in the delivery we will continue to drive a performance management culture of our cross cycle combined ratio target.
The programme cuts across all of our major businesses and Our principal challenge for 2005 is to demonstrate to the processes and has clear direction with detailed action plans market that real progress has been made in transforming the and milestones supporting every deliverable.
It covers portfolio Group and that the improvement is sustainable.
This progress restructuring, underwriting and pricing, distribution, claims, IT, doesnt mean that we can now sit back, but it is something that outsourcing and site consolidation.
There are some 100 projects I believe we can be proud of and that shows we have made the running under 25 major programmes, all subject to frequent transition from a Company that just talks delivery to one that and detailed review.
In each of the businesses there is strong actually achieves it.
leadership right down to individual workstreams.
It is being strongly managed from the Group Corporate Centre to ensure that the benets are delivered on budget and on time.
The goals form part of everyones personal performance objectives.
Andy Haste Group CEO Looking ahead We have made significant progress over the last 18 months and I am confident of achieving our targets for financial performance and expense reduction.
We have also delivered on our long term strategic objective of becoming a focused general insurer and Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 7
