RBS Ann Review 01-07 7 3 05 10:22 am Page 6 Group Chief Executives review 06 Group Chief Executives review RBS Ann Review 01-07 7 3 05 10:22 am Page 7 07 Our customers In 2004 we continued to achieve strong We aim to deliver value for our customers.
Our success in growth across our activities, both achieving this in 2004 is shown by increased customer numbers in each of our divisions, as well as by positive surveys of organically and through acquisitions.
In Retail Banking for NatWest, the option to call branches direct and the appointment of over 1,000 We increased our total income by 18% additional branch staff have led to significant improvements in and improved our cost:income ratio to customer satisfaction.
During 2004 we again won many awards for our products and services.
Our profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and integration costs Our people Our people are the key to our success.
The continuing increased by 15% to 8,101 million.
commitment of our employees, even after their very hard work in previous years completing the integration of NatWest, is All our divisions increased their income evident from the results of our 2004 Employee Opinion Survey.
and their contribution to Group profit.
In this survey, the response rate was 84%, our highest ever, and the Group improved its score in 14 of the 15 categories surveyed.
We continue to invest in our employees through an It is pleasing that we continued to deliver strong organic growth extensive range of development and leadership programmes.
across our businesses, on top of the strong performance in As a result of organic growth and acquisitions, staff numbers previous years.
In addition to delivering strong organic growth, we completed Our shareholders several acquisitions during 2004.
The largest of these was the Our principal goal is to create value for our shareholders.
US bank Charter One, which enabled Citizens to expand into A key measure of our success towards this goal is the rate of several adjacent Midwestern states around the important cities increase in our dividend per share.
This is the 12th consecutive of Cleveland, Chicago and Detroit.
As a result of organic growth year in which we have increased our dividend per share by and acquisitions, Citizens is now the 8th largest commercial 15% or more.
Our 2004 dividend per share was covered nearly banking organisation in the United States, by deposits.
three times by adjusted earnings.
Through smaller acquisitions, we have established a presence in credit card issuing and merchant acquisition in the United Business outlook States, and a strengthened position in Continental Europe.
We continue to see strong growth in lending to commercial and These extensions to our capabilities enhance the options for mid-corporate customers, and some recovery in demand from the Group to expand its activities outside the United Kingdom.
large corporates, with consumers continuing to behave rationally During 2004 we reached agreement to distribute credit cards given the prevailing climate and stimuli in their particular to the customers of The Kroger Co. the second largest economies.
Whilst in the UK context we would expect the supermarket group in the United States, and to distribute transition away from consumer credit-led activity to continue, the consumer loan products to the customers of Tchibo, a leading outlook for employment and hence the economy remains positive.
In a number of respects, 2004 represented a continuation of All integrations of recently acquired businesses are on track.
established themes within our results: strong income growth, Several major stages in the IT conversion of Churchill have improving efficiency, good credit quality.
Importantly however, been completed successfully.
Implementation of the plan to the continued development, both organic and through integrate First Active is well under way and the initial stages in acquisition, of our businesses has introduced further strength the conversion of Charter One have already been implemented.
and diversity in key areas.
In each case, we are confident that we shall be able to deliver the expected transaction benefits.
As a consequence, we remain confident that we can deliver superior value for our shareholders, our customers and our people in 2005.
Sir Fred Goodwin, Group Chief Executive Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Group review
