Chairman and Chief Executives review Leading Peter Cawdron Chairman Favourite artist: Buddy Holly First single: Diana, Paul Anka Best gig: Elton John at Wembley Capital Radio plc | www.
com 02 Our Chairman, Peter Cawdron and Chief Executive, David Manseld answer questions on the Groups activities, performance and strategy for growth.
Has it been a good year for Capital?
DM From an operating point of view, its been satisfactory because revenues from the advertising market picked up and we were up around 4%, a better performance in terms of year on year revenue growth than weve had for four years.
I also think weve run the business more efficiently than weve ever done before.
The recruitment of Johnny Vaughan and the management of the transition from Chris Tarrant, which was a very high profile event for the Company, was handled by the management team at 95.8 exceedingly well.
However, this was a challenging year for commercial radio as a resurgent BBC achieved the highest share of listening that it has ever enjoyed under RAJAR.
We believe that the BBCs programming should be complementary to commercial television and radio, and thus create a more level playing field and greater consumer choice.
Consequently, we are working hard with the government to ensure that the BBC Charter renewal benefits both the listener and the viewer, and we are encouraging the Department of Culture, Media & Sport DCMS and Ofcom to examine the BBCs public service remit.
How are you planning to compete against this resurgent BBC?
PC As David says, we believe it is imperative that the commercial radio companies combine their strengths to make their view heard on the BBC Charter renewal, and Capital Radio is keen to be at the forefront of this.
Also, a key reason for the merger with GWR is to create an organisation that provides us with the resources to market our stations nationally and take on the BBC in its local markets more strongly than weve been able to in the past.
In particular, both Capital Radio and GWR have a significant investment in digital, and we will be much better placed to take on the BBC in the digital world as a merged group.
What are the prospects for radio in general?
Do you still think radio can attract 10% of all UK advertising spend?
DM Radio in general is in pretty good shape.
Over the last few years, advertisers and agencies have been re-evaluating how they use media.
Today, with the amount of choice out there, connecting with the consumer is more important than ever to advertisers.
Cost of commercials and reaching listeners, demographics and lifestyle profiles make the planning and buying of radio within the media mix particularly favourable.
Radio is currently favoured by advertisers, which is why it has outperformed whether it will continue to do so and for how long is a hard question to answer.
The 10% share was a number calculated by the RAB, who dont make these comments lightly and we believe that its a real possibility.
Forecasting is a very difficult game, and if youd said ten years ago that radio would have a 7% share of advertising compared to the 2% at that time, people would have been extremely sceptical.
I think its important to have ambitious targets but how long it will take to reach 10% remains to be seen.
However, we remain optimistic about the prospects for radio in general and believe that it will continue to outperform the display advertising market for the foreseeable future.
com 03 Chairman and Chief Executives review David Manseld Chief Executive Favourite artist: Neil Young First single: Substitute, The Who Best gig: Pink Floyd at Earls Court, 1972 Capital Radio plc | www.
com 04 Our proposed merger with GWR is very much about winning revenues from other media and we see national press and commercial television as potential fertile ground for us to improve our relative revenue positions.
When do you think conditions in the advertising industry will improve?
DM Well, weve limped out of the advertising recession thats our view and generally the view of the marketplace.
The total advertising market this year will probably be up 3%-4%.
Radio, as weve already said, has done particularly well, demonstrating twice that rate.
I think that the outlook for next year might not be as growth-oriented as people were initially expecting.
Our first quarter from October to December 2004, is looking more challenging as the market has seen some slow down in spend among key advertisers, particularly FMCG clients.
We are likely to report revenues down 5% year on year, and this is the first quarter thats seen a decline for a year.
While this is common with other radio groups, we dont believe its a structural change and we still feel radio will continue to outperform.
Its just a difficult quarter and its hard to predict what the remaining nine months will do until we get into the early part of next year.
We are going to run the business on a cautious basis, which we have had much experience of doing.
In the key London market, the breakfast show on 95.8 Capital FM has lost listeners since Johnny Vaughan took over.
What are you doing to reverse this decline?
DM I think that its important to put 95.8 Capital FM in perspective.
We always knew 95.8 was going to come under serious competitive pressure, as it was the only music radio station in London when we started 30 years ago.
Therefore an important part of our strategy over the last ten years has been to become increasingly less reliant on the station by building a complementary portfolio of brands around it.
When you have someone like Chris Tarrant, who has been in charge of the show for 17 years, there is inevitably going to be huge churn of his loyal listenership when he leaves.
What we have done by appointing Johnny Vaughan is to invent a new sort of breakfast show.
We know from our research that it is attracting a new, younger audience and we need to continue this success.
Remember that its very early days weve said that Johnny Vaughan will take probably a year and a half to settle into the show and win new listeners.
Were still the commercial leader in London.
Johnny Vaughan has more listeners than our nearest commercial competitor and we remain absolutely confident in him.
We think hes going to turn out to be a remarkable talent for radio.
So were going to build from Chris base but we may have to go backwards before we go forwards.
How important is the 95.8 Capital FM Breakfast Show for the Group?
PC Breakfast is still the most important time of the day with the most available listeners.
Its the draw for the rest of the day and we believe that Johnny Vaughan is the best choice to attract listeners for the long term.
His show is the flagship show for our flagship station, which is why the media tend to focus on this particular programme.
However, its worth remembering that Johnny Vaughans show is only one of many breakfast shows that the Group provides across London through its complementary portfolio of brands.
com 05 Chairman and Chief Executives review Why are competitors taking share in London?
Why does the multi-brand strategy make How confident are you that you can maintain sense?
Is this related to the fragmentation your leading position in London long-term?
DM 95.8 Capital FM has traditionally been a broadly PC Recently, Ofcom produced a report that said radio targeted radio station and over the years there has been listening has risen by 7% in the last five years.
This is increased competition from more niche players in the because radio content has become more available, marketplace.
What we have done successfully is to build more widely distributed and on more platforms.
If the a group of complementary London radio stations around brand-leading station is under threat because the 95.8 Capital FMs offering: Capital Gold, which currently barriers to entry are falling and listeners have more suffers from being broadcast on the AM frequency and choice, what is important is to own those choices.
If which will win back new listeners in digital format: Xfm, we could lose listeners, then lets lose them to other which has successfully and consistently won listeners and stations that we own.
grown revenues: and Choice FM, our newest acquisition, DM Advertisers like to be able to position their brands whose advertiser profile weve already transformed to in the right environment and what were able to offer is become more national.
This portfolio enables our a number of different listener profiles and different customers to reach a mass-market audience of over environments.
For example, Xfm has the highest level of 3 million people in London.
interactivity from its website than any other station.
Some No other radio business in London has such a advertisers will use all our stations and some are looking complementary group of radio stations and, if you look to target listeners more specifically.
We are able to offer into the digital future, our offering becomes even stronger a complete national proposition whatever advertisers with brands such as Capital Disney, Century and Life.
want: regionally, nationally or locally, we can provide it.
Strong London brands with growth potential Female biased Younger Older Analogue Digital Digital Male biased Capital Radio plc | www.
com 06 Our strategy is very clear we think that brands are very What does Choice FM bring to the Group?
important in connecting with the consumer.
We aim to DM Choice FM has a great format and is a strong put our brands on as many different digital platforms as brand with a loyal listener base.
Its niche listener possible and to market them as a sign of quality for the profile complements our portfolio in London and enables consumer.
This means that if consumers want to listen to Capital Radio to provide the London listener with radio content, no matter which platform, theres a Capital a greater choice of brands for different tastes.
With brand available for them, consumers know what it stands a potential digital audience of 23.7 million, we are for and we have a good chance of attracting them.
investing in building the Choice FM brand with increased product and marketing spend in 2005.
Our aim is to build Why are you merging with GWR?
Choice FMs credible reputation in London to create the UKs leading urban music station.
PC The merged group will combine two already complementary portfolios to create an organisation in a strong position to drive the growth of commercial radios When will you see the benets of your digital share of listening and advertising by providing better radio investment?
services to listeners and greater opportunities to PC Well thats the $64,000 question!
It is in the interests of our listeners, our over 5 million a year in digital.
This is a significant cost staff and our shareholders for the merger process to be for which we get relatively little credit in the value of completed as quickly as possible.
However, we are very confident that digital radio will catch on.
The speed of uptake obviously Will listeners notice any changes to the depends on the consumer but this year we expect to see stations when the merger is completed?
over 1 million radios sold in the UK.
It is very early days, but as soon as cars and homes go digital, well see DM No, not at all.
The only thing that the merger increased digital listening.
That is when advertising will will change will be to provide more choice to the become effective and well start earning acceptable listener and give them access to more specialist music returns on our investment.
throughout the UK on stations that have stronger and more cohesive programming schedules.
How will radio in general and Capital in particular compete in a multi-platform world How will this merger create value for where consumers control their own content?
DM The world of digital media is really changing PC At a challenging time and in a changing media things.
We have moved from a situation where the media landscape, we are building a business for the future.
are in control by providing a menu of content to the The enlarged Group will offer greater opportunities consumer.
The consumer is now able to use broadband, to advertisers to reach 17 million listeners through a digital television, digital radio and a whole host of other more coherent proposition and in turn, we expect to be platforms to access the content that they want when able to attract additional advertising from other media.
Our approach has been to recognise this Our investment in digital will lead to an increased shift, embrace technology and work out its relevance listening share, and the technology will allow us to have to our listeners.
closer relationships with our listeners and enable us to develop other commercial opportunities outside the traditional sponsorship and advertising marketplaces.
We have a good history in cost management and we are aiming to build long-term value.
It is very important that we are able to demonstrate to all interested parties, whether it be our staff, shareholders or customers, that our strategy makes sense and that we are confident of the future prospects of the enlarged group.
