Chief Executives Review In 2004, we achieved our key financial objectives and made good strategic progress.
We have substantial net cash, a large order book and strong positions in all our key growth markets.
The Group is now ready to move forward into our next phase of growth, building on the strong platform we have created over the last five years.
Strategic progress It has over 400 customers, including a This was achieved despite the impact Implementing our consistent strategy has number of blue chip companies, central of Network Rails decision to take rail created a well-balanced business, which Government and Local Authorities, and maintenance in-house during 2004. is focused on selected growth markets provides services to some 40,000 properties Underlying growth has therefore been and with UK sales divided broadly throughout the UK and in Eire.
equally between public and private sector customers.
In 2004, PMGs turnover and profit before tax Our continuing focus on strong cash were 162 million and 4.15 million, after management again resulted in a substantial In 2004, we completed our programme non-recurring management fees, respectively.
cash inflow during the year of around of major disposals by selling Crown House Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 78 million and we had net cash at and Carillion BTP, our contracting business in goodwill amortisation were 4.85 million.
The 31 December 2004 of 153.6 million, before France.
Over the last five years we have sold value of net assets acquired was 10.6 million.
finance lease liabilities of 24.2 million.
businesses and withdrawn from non-core The PMG pension fund has a net deficit of Average weekly net cash was 66 million.
markets that previously generated around approximately 10 million, which Carillion 700 million of Construction Services will eliminate by making a one-off cash After a net exceptional charge of turnover per annum.
This will be in addition 57.2 million and goodwill amortisation to the 40 million consideration and will of 3.9 million, the Group made a loss of Over the same period we have grown produce a commensurate reduction in PMGs 6.4 million before tax and a loss per share our Support Services and PPP Investment future contributions to its pension scheme.
Details of exceptional items activities at a compound annual growth rate are given in the Financial Review on page 16 of over 12 per cent, which has maintained PMG is an excellent strategic fit and will add of this Report.
The largest of these was a Group turnover at around 2 billion per good quality earnings to the Group.
It will non-cash goodwill write back of 69.9 million annum.
These activities now account for significantly strengthen our support services associated with the sale of Crown House and around half our turnover and over two offering in our Health and Business Services Carillion BTP, of which 68.7 million had thirds of our profit.
In particular, having a strong inpreviously been written off to reserves.
house M&E maintenance capability will bring Acquisition of Planned considerable benefits to new and existing Order book Maintenance Group PMG Carillion customers, as this is a major element The radical change we have made to our In line with our strategy for growing our in providing fully integrated service solutions business mix is reflected in the size, quality Support Services activities, we announced for buildings.
and length of our order book.
in March 2005 the acquisition of Planned Maintenance Group for a cash consideration PMG has a strong order book with good In 2004, we continued to win significant work of 40 million.
This acquisition will forward visibility and well-established in all our chosen markets.
We maintained immediately enhance the Groups earnings.
This, together the value of our year-end order book and with the significant synergy benefits we framework contracts at 5 billion, despite PMG, operating through its principal expect to generate, will enhance our the effects of selling Crown House, Carillion subsidiary, Planned Maintenance Engineering prospects for growth.
PMGs long and BTP and two PPP equity investments, which PME, is one of the UKs foremost independent successful track record is based on its together had an order book of approximately building services and maintenance companies customer-focused strategy, which fits 800 million.
Our order book for continuing with a strong reputation for high-quality well with Carillions values and culture.
businesses has therefore increased services and customer care.
We have also maintained our 2,300 people and provides a range of services, Business performance healthy pipeline of probable new orders at including mechanical and electrical Profit before tax, goodwill and exceptional around 2.2 billion.
engineering M&E maintenance, building items increased by around 8 per cent to fabric maintenance and repair, facilities 54.7 million, with earnings per share up Support Services and PPP concession management and environmental services.
contracts account for 78 per cent of our total 06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and Financial Review Section 03 1.
These long-term contracts have encourage everyone to live our core value initiative, Target Zero, aimed at eliminating greatly increased the quality and length of of Openness across all our businesses.
This is an ambitious our order book, of which 75 per cent is for target, but as there is no such thing as an 2006 and beyond.
We have also improved the Our determination to make the Carillion acceptable accident, we are determined quality of our construction order book brand synonymous not only with the services to reduce them to zero.
For Target Zero to through our selective approach and focus on we provide, but also with the way in which be successful, we need the support and developing long-term relationships with key we provide them, is helping us create a participation of all our stakeholders, customers.
Consequently, our UK Building customer focused culture.
This is vital to including our customers, suppliers and business now generates around 80 per cent our strategy of providing integrated solutions partners, as well as our own people.
We of its turnover from 20 key customers.
tailored to the needs of our customers.
are therefore actively engaging them in Therefore, I am greatly encouraged by Target Zero and their response has been very Risk management research that shows our core values and encouraging.
Again, we say more about this Risk is inherent in any business.
Success reputation as a socially responsible business in the Corporate Social Responsibility section depends on understanding the risks we take are increasingly important factors in making of this Report on page 20 and detailed and our ability to manage them effectively.
Carillion an employer of choice.
information will be published in our 2004 Changing our business mix has significantly Sustainability Report in April 2005. improved the risk profile of our activities.
A more sustainable business Alongside this we have also developed Our focus on sustainable profitable rigorous management processes, which growth means we are committed to address both our strategic and business improving our impacts on the environment, specific risks, including social, environmental the communities in which we operate and and ethical risks.
They apply to every society generally.
In 2004, we continued to stage of all our activities, from inception develop the strategy model we first published John McDonough to completion.
Our choice of markets, the in 2001 to help us understand how improving Chief Executive projects or services we bid for and how we these impacts can assist us in delivering 9 March 2005 deliver them, are all based on identifying and our business objectives.
We still have a long evaluating the attendant risks and our ability way to go to integrate sustainability into to manage them.
These processes are everything we do, but our achievements supported by regular reports to managers at have made Carillion a recognised leader in all levels up to and including our main Board.
developing and adopting socially responsible Decisions on all major projects are taken by a business practices.
We say more about this in sub-committee of the main Board, which also the Corporate Social Responsibility section of monitors their performance and progress.
Detailed information will be published in our 2004 Sustainability Our people Report in April 2005.
Many factors are important to our success, but the quality of our people is paramount.
Health and Safety Therefore, we are totally committed to In 2004, Carillions Accident Frequency Rate achieving our prime objective of attracting, AFR increased to 0.37 compared to 0.34 in developing and retaining excellent people 2003, its lowest ever level after a number by becoming an employer of choice.
We of years of successive improvements.
Even continually strive to improve communication though our 2004 AFR compares favourably with all our people and to listen to what they with those of our peers, it was nevertheless tell us.
We do this through individual disappointing.
Consequently, we have performance development reviews, team reviewed our approach to improving Health talks and regular surveys, in which we and Safety and launched a radical new 07 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and Financial Review 03
