Group Chief Executives Review 2004 has been an excellent year for the Group.
We have momentum and scale in our markets and we are delighted with the strategic progress we have made.
Over the last three years, we have Looking to the year ahead, our industry Our 2005 priorities pursued a focused agenda.
faces a number of challenges: rising sophistication and regionalisation of We set ourselves ambitious performance Expand Consumer Banking local banks: new entrants including goals and have consistently delivered customer segments non-bank financial institutions: margin against them.
We have strengthened and products compression in many of our markets: the infrastructure and technology of increasingly demanding regulatory the Bank: we have developed a robust requirements: sophisticated customers Continue Wholesale Banking risk management capability: we are demanding more for less: the risk of a transformation reinvigorating our brand: we have major disruption from an unexpected increased staff engagement and event: and an unrelenting war for talent.
Our organic, Integrate Korea First Bank Like all international businesses, retaining broad based growth has given us the and deliver growth and attracting the best people in a highly shareholder support and confidence to competitive industry is always a challenge.
Companies have to invest heavily in Accelerate growth in India I would like to take this opportunity to recruiting and developing the right talent.
and China thank our employees for their tremendous Many of these challenges are not new.
efforts over the past three years which What is different today is the pace and Deliver further are turning Standard Chartered into a intensity of change.
technology benefits high performance organisation.
To compete successfully and grow, we During 2004, we delivered a balanced Embed Outserve into need to be able to anticipate and react scorecard of growth and performance.
our culture quickly to changes.
We have to accept Profit before tax was $2,158 million, a that different markets are at different 39 per cent increase from $1,550 million stages of development so we need in 2003.
Return on equity rose from different strategies for them.
Costincome ratio improved to 53.5 per cent.
We have been disciplined on costs and Earnings per share saw an increase processes, and innovative on products.
All We are standardising our technology these figures are on a normalised basis.
platforms and we are absolutely focused on customer service.
This For the first time, both our Wholesale enables us to be more nimble and able and Consumer Banking businesses to anticipate and respond to the changing produced more than $1 billion each industry environment.
in operating profit before tax.
We are in dynamic markets and at the 2005 priorities core of our strategy is organic growth.
Our strategic intent is to be the worlds We will supplement this organic growth best international bank leading the with selective acquisitions and alliances way in Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
that extend our customer or geographic Our top priorities for 2005 are set out reach or broaden our product range.
6 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Consumer Banking Consumer Banking is a business on the move, getting more innovative every year.
It continues to grow its revenue base on the back of both good asset growth outside Hong Kong and an increase in non-interest income from our wealth management business.
Consumer Banking also benefited from a faster than anticipated reduction in personal bankruptcies in Hong Kong.
Operating profit increased by 42 per cent and we achieved revenue growth of eight per cent.
There was strong performance in many markets, reflecting our increasingly broadly based geographic and product mix.
Our challenge is to invest at the right pace in growing markets and, at the same time, increase productivity and innovation in our more mature markets like Singapore and Hong Kong.
We are seeing returns on our investments in product capability, network expansion and systems.
For example, our Consumer Banking business in the Middle East and South Asia MESA region enjoyed revenue growth of 23 per cent in 2004, following significant investment in the second half of 2003.
Innovative products have also set us apart from the competition in many of our markets.
A good example is Manhattan Card.
Manhattan is the first credit card in India and Singapore to have risk-based pricing.
It is an example of customer segmentation driving product innovation.
With our recent launch in three cities in India, we now have approximately 120,000 cards in issue outside of Hong Kong, and 620,000 in Hong Kong.
We will launch Manhattan in three more cities in India in 2005.
7 Group Chief Executives Review MortgageOne is another example.
This Overall operating profit for Wholesale What we have achieved business grew over 50 per cent in Hong Banking is up by 28 per cent.
We We took the first steps in our Kong and accounts for 80 per cent of have grown revenues by 14 per cent Outserve customer service new mortgage sales in Malaysia.
and, significantly, customer revenues initiative in 2004.
In a competitive by 19 per cent.
Innovation in channels is also proving environment where the customer an important contributor to growth and Disciplined investments in key sales and is king, outstanding service will we will continue to offer new and control functions have delivered good be a key differentiator for us.
original ideas and approaches across results across all geographies, products all our markets.
and all four of our customer segments.
Our challenges We have deepened our customer Looking ahead, we will increase We have already made progress relationships and are now a top three customer segmentation to grow key in improving our customer bank to 25 per cent of our customers.
segments such as youth and the loyalty scores.
However, high international banking sector.
We will However, there is still room to further service standards need to increase the size of our Small and improve cross-sell ratios and strengthen become part of our daily Medium Enterprises SME business.
The acquisition routine, with processes and Our Priority Banking offering will be of the ANZ project finance portfolio is technology aligned to expanded in our key markets and one example of how we are doing this.
we will be looking at opportunities to The emergence of China and India as extend the reach of our consumer economic powerhouses is changing the finance business across Asia following dynamics of trade, and new trade our acquisition of PrimeCredit in corridors are opening, particularly Hong Kong.
Wholesale Banking Our acquisition of Sumitomo Mitsui In 2004, our Wholesale Banking Banking Corporations business in India business enjoyed a year of robust gives us a strong position in the trade revenue performance.
We have executed corridor between Japan and India, and well on the strategy we laid out a few our network in the Middle East and years ago and delivered on our promises.
Africa will also prove important in giving us leverage as trade corridors change.
Ongoing initiatives and integration of our acquisitions will greatly benefit our Wholesale Banking business, adding to the many opportunities we see to Mike DeNoma continue to grow revenues, which we Group Executive Director, will do within our usual jaws discipline Consumer Banking alongside paced capital growth.
Mike Rees Director of Standard Chartered Bank and Chief Executive Officer, Wholesale Bank 8 Price Solutions direct to customers Our direct selling Price Solutions business now We are passionate about distributes a wide range of Standard Chartereds consumer banking products in Malaysia, using teams of telesales and field employees as well as our customers success.
In July, we opened Malaysias first financial services kiosk in a popular Kuala Lumpur shopping mall.
After registering 1,000 enquiries on It is our job to make sure the first day, we are planning to open similar kiosks in other retail centres.
From an initial team of 23, selling across the country, we now employ over they are always happy with 700 people in our Price Solutions team.
the quality of our service, no matter where they are.
Big brands team up for co-branded cards We are the top credit card company in Jordan with 50 per cent of the market.
A link-up with mobile phone company Fastlink in 2004 put us in a different league from other banks in the region.
Our co-branded card, the countrys first pre-approved credit card, is open to Fastlinks one million customers the biggest pool of mobile phone users in Jordan.
This gives us unparalleled access to a database of potential customers.
This deal was replicated in Thailand with communications company DTAC.
Lions roar approval for Shatin Plaza A pair of Chinese lions, the symbol of luck and prosperity in Hong Kong, blessed the opening of our new flagship branch in Shatin Plaza.
Our Priority Banking Centre opened in March and will deal specifically with Standard Chartereds customers in the region, offering a range of dedicated services.
The lions toured the building to bestow good luck on our business.
Group Chief Executives Review Korea First Bank Korea First Bank What we have achieved Our recent acquisition of Korea First Consumer Banking Our share price performed Bank, subject to regulatory approval, Korea First Bank has the countrys fifth well in 2004.
Our geographic is the biggest in the history of Standard largest distribution network.
It has reach into some of the worlds Chartered.
We will execute it well and over 400 branches located throughout fastest-growing economies, such build our presence in Korea, expanding the country and 2,100 ATMs.
In a as China and India, makes us a our reach in Asia.
country with 60 per cent internet distinctive investment proposition.
penetration, it has a user-friendly The scale of opportunities in Korea is internet banking platform, and a strong tremendous.
It is the worlds tenth mobile banking business.
Our challenges largest economy, Asias third largest, Increasing value for shareholders and its economy is expected to grow An example of one opportunity is our and growing earnings per share by four per cent in 2005.
Koreas personal loan product, which can be is a top priority for Standard banking sector generates a revenue introduced to Korea First Bank.
We will do this by pool over three times the size of Our success in personal loans has been continuing to grow organically, Hong Kong.
due to excellent customer segmentation, by making disciplined acquisitions Korea First Bank is the seventh largest good credit quality, driven off that complement our existing banking group in Korea by assets, credit bureau data and innovative businesses, and by constantly with a market share of approximately six distribution channels.
striving to be The Right Partner per cent and over three million retail to our customers, our employees Matched with our strong credit scoring customers.
It has one of the lowest levels and the communities in which system and our tested instalment loan of non-performing loans in the industry.
product, we have grown personal loans We have appointed an experienced at Standard Chartered Korea into an integration team in Korea.
We are almost $200 million business, in just building relations with the regulators, one year.
Korea First Banks own labour unions, the local community and instalment loan business is relatively the staff of Korea First Bank.
These are small and we have built our business important relationships to us.
We see good potential in distributing this through Retaining key management talent is Korea First Banks branch network.
also very important and we are pleased with the quality of senior management in Korea First Bank.
Full year results for Korea First Bank will be announced in March.
We will Peter Sands give more details on our progress with Group Executive Director, Korea First Bank in our interim report, Finance and Strategy following completion of this acquisition.
Gareth Bullock Director of Standard Chartered Bank and Group Head, Strategy 10 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Growing opportunities in UAE This year we were one of the first global banks to be Investors help us grow granted a commercial banking licence by the Dubai International Financial Centre DIFC, giving us good opportunities to grow our business in the United our business.
Arab Emirates our fourth largest market.
The DIFC provides an on-shore capital market, creating a world-class banking infrastructure in the United Arab We believe our distinctive Emirates.
We are proud to support it.
offering delivers outstanding performance and superior returns.
Hong Kong issues sub-debt The issue of subordinated debt by Standard Chartered Bank Hong Kong Limited was not only a first for Standard Chartered Hong Kong, but also the first Hong Kong Dollar subordinated debt to be issued in the local market.
As such this represents a breakthrough both for Standard Chartered and the local bond market.
A winning start to 2005 Standard Chartereds acquisition of Korea First Bank is the largest in our history.
It was an excellent start to 2005.
The acquisition, which is subject to regulatory approval, was partly financed with proceeds from the placing of approximately ten per cent of our issued ordinary share capital.
The placement was oversubscribed, testimony to strong support for the Bank.
Through this exciting addition to our network, we aim to lead the way in Korea, building on innovative approaches such as the Moving Partner bus shown above right, which we use to educate customers about financial products.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Standard Chartered 11 Group Chief Executives Review It is clear there are significant revenue Korea First Bank What we have achieved opportunities and the combination of Wholesale Banking We make a difference to our expertise with that of Korea First Standard Chartered will build a leading communities through corporate Bank will help realise the opportunities Wholesale Banking franchise in Korea activity and the involvement of we see in the market.
We are now even by leveraging our international network, employees.
We exceeded our more confident that this acquisition will product capability and management initial funding target for Seeing be earnings per share accretive in 2006. processes, as well as Korea First Banks is Believing, and have a new customer base.
goal to raise enough money India and China One example of a growth opportunity is for one million sight restorations India and China are our two biggest fee based income.
At Korea First Bank, over the next three years.
We are well non-interest income represents less on track in both these markets.
than 25 per cent of total revenues Our challenges With ten new branches, taking our total at Standard Chartered this is over We are committed to helping network to 75 branches in 27 cities, 40 per cent.
developing countries through we are the largest international bank in Building a trade and cash management our products and services.
We have focused on growing our business will be a key priority we can Empowering underdeveloped distribution network and asset base, leverage our international network and communities through business as well as broadening revenue streams.
products to generate new fee income.
loans, product advice and As a result, we have strong market support will be key business and share in mortgages, credit cards, wealth In parallel, we will strengthen Korea Corporate Responsibility goals management, fixed income and trade First Banks Global Markets product for Standard Chartered in 2005. finance in India.
capability, developing the necessary infrastructure as well as training We are investing heavily in India because for staff.
we see the scale of the opportunity.
Our focus on growing our customer We see good opportunities in foreign base and expanding revenue may slow exchange and derivatives as well as in the pace of operating profit growth in debt capital markets.
the short term, but it will put us in a strong position to benefit in the medium term.
There is no doubt that we can build on our position as the leading international bank in India.
In China, our strategy has three Chris Keljik strands: organic growth, strategic Group Executive Director, investments and taking advantage of Africa, Middle East and opportunities in the Pearl River Delta.
South Asia, UK and the Americas Tim Miller Director of Standard Chartered Bank and Group Head, Human Resources 12 I See, Eye Sea success Seeing is Believing took centre stage in Hong Kong Working with communities in 2004.
We asked thousands of schoolchildren to help create a stunning exhibition called I See, Eye Sea.
The children decorated over 20,000 transparent is a key priority.
plastic eye-shapes, which were exhibited in Hong Kongs largest shopping mall and at several of our branches.
Standard Chartered is trusted within our territories, and we are dedicated to making a difference.
Getting the message across Employees in India boosted awareness of HIV AIDS through our Living with HIV programme.
A major challenge was to reach out to the young population working in Chennais buzzing IT sector.
We developed a campaign, with the Confederation of Indian Industry, offering training to specially selected champions.
It has Playing to win been so successful, we will run similar This year we proved that banking doesnt always schemes across other Indian regions.
have to be serious when we sponsored the Monopoly World Championships in Japan.
The tournament pitted 38 national champions of the game against each other in a two-day battle.
Naturally, Standard Chartered was the banker, with one of our employees, Yumiko Suzaki, presiding over the cash register in the final, won by Spains Antonio Zafra Fernandez.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Standard Chartered 13 Group Chief Executives Review We are growing revenues at over But margin compression is increasing, What we have achieved 30 per cent per annum and we have and loan demand is not growing as fast We are industry leaders in our strengthened our network with additional as the economy.
We are focusing on markets in regulatory and Renminbi RMB licences in Xiamen, productivity to ensure we have the governance issues.
Our policies Beijing and Nanjing.
We now have five capacity to grow in a maturing market.
ensure we are in line with RMB licences which allow us to conduct We believe that our strategy in Hong international regulatory bodies.
RMB business with local corporates in Kong will pay off.
In 2004 we co-hosted the 13 cities.
International Credit Bureau Delivering technology benefits We have also added a branch licence in Conference in Seoul alongside Across the industry, the key themes Guangzhou.
Our ambition is to remain a the Korean Ministry of Finance.
are data centre consolidation, leading bank in China.
security, service delivery channels for In parallel with this organic growth, we customers, and pressure to reduce Our challenges have signed a framework agreement to telecommunications costs.
We will In an environment where there is take a 19.99 per cent stake in Bohai continue our efforts to ensure we can heightened awareness of Bank the first bank with a national stay ahead of changes in the industry.
regulatory issues, we must licence for many years.
This will be the continually educate employees at Improvements in our technology platform first time that a foreign bank has been every level about their role, and have underpinned much of our ability allowed to participate and take a ensure that they are fully to grow.
management role in the establishment engaged in our Know Your of a national bank.
Our Global Shared Service Centres in Customer programme.
Chennai and Kuala Lumpur continue to Bohai Bank will be able to open branches develop scale and efficiencies.
We and sell products throughout China and estimate that our Shared Service we will be a significant part of this Centres have generated annual cost exciting new bank.
We have created When we mention our business in China economies of scale and tighter control we have to include Hong Kong, which is has meant our technology production now very much a regional hub, integral costs are down year-on-year.
This to developing opportunities in China.
has created capacity for increased investment in business applications We have seen a good performance in and infrastructure.
Hong Kong and the outlook for the economy is good.
Overall, consumer confidence is being restored.
We are seeing inflation for the first time in many years, and unemployment is down.
Kai Nargolwala Group Executive Director, Asia A rise in tourism, with 21 million visitors and Chairman, Wholesale Bank in 2004, and more than 24 million expected in 2005, will continue to help the economy.
Richard Meddings Group Executive Director, Risk and Compliance 14 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Building on our success in Asia Standard Chartered celebrated its ongoing Good business means partnership with Malaysia at the grand opening of our new corporate office in Kuala Lumpur.
Malaysias Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi playing by the rules.
An integral part of the countrys community since 1875, Standard Chartered is one of the leading participants in its We work with regulators to banking sector, with 30 branches nationwide and over 2,400 employees.
ensure Standard Chartered shows exemplary governance in every part of our business.
Standard Chartered first off the mark with Shariah banking This year Standard Chartered became the first international bank to offer Islamic Banking services in Pakistan, working with an independent Shariah Supervisory Committee.
Our range of current accounts, auto finance and mortgages is proving popular next up is a range of corporate banking products for launch in 2005.
Standard Chartered a catalyst for debate We take pride in confronting the big issues facing world finance and banking, and in 2004 partnered Koreas Ministry of Finance at a conference focusing on international credit bureau standards.
With top speakers, such as Deputy Prime Minister, the Honourable Lee Hun-Jai, over 350 bankers, regulators and credit bureau experts from 40 countries attended this timely event.
Group Chief Executives Review The stability and efficiency of our We are obsessive about our customer What we have achieved operations have been enhanced.
Moving service and will use this as a source We have a rich pool of talented forward, we will continue to emphasise of distinction because we believe employees working in many standardising technology as we migrate that our Outserve initiative will create different territories globally.
to a lower cost and modern core revenue, reduce customer attrition In 2004, we set up our Diversity banking platform globally.
Council to drive our diversity and We have completed our Know Your Outlook inclusion agenda to leverage high Customer roll out and we have migrated We have had a strong performance in performance.
We also held our our platforms to meet changing reporting 2004 and the revenue momentum into first Womens Executive Forum requirements under International 2005 is good.
Both of our businesses have good growth potential and we have robust Our challenges Outserve controls in place.
We need to ensure that the In line with our brand promise to be diversity of our employees is We continue to make progress towards The Right Partner, we believe that reflected in our most senior our ambitious goals to be a leader in service will be a differentiator for us management.
We are working India and China.
The smooth integration in an increasingly competitive hard to ensure talented of Korea First Bank is a high priority.
individuals are supported and To this end, we began a series of We will continue to produce strong developed as they train to internal initiatives in 2004 to build our profit growth for our shareholders in become the leaders of the future.
However, we will also these initiatives Outserve and we focus on building a long-term believe it will have a profound impact sustainable business.
Overall, Standard Chartered is in good Outserve comprises four components: health and we are optimistic about the voice of the customer, process the future.
improvements, metrics and measurements, change management and communication.
We have taken the best methodologies on Voice of Customer, and developed an improved model tailored to our industry and market needs.
Mervyn Davies, CBE Group Chief Executive Our service metrics include over 16 February 2005 100 indicators to monitor every aspect of the customer experience.
We are managing culture change, and improving the way we communicate about customers.
Our top 220 leaders in the company, including myself, are completing First Hand Days, where we experience somebody elses job on the front line to understand service issues and remove blockages to improved service.
16 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Greatest Race on Earth Standard Chartereds sponsorship of The Greatest Our people define Race on Earth four marathons spanning Nairobi, Singapore, Mumbai and Hong Kong has brought out the best in our people.
Fifteen teams of Standard Chartered.
employees entered the gruelling challenge this year along with four individual entrants from Standard Chartered.
One employee, Anton Jackie Stevens, We are committed to was invited to run in the Nairobi Marathon for the Filipino National Team.
helping them grow, enabling individuals to make a difference and teams to win.
Calling to thank customers We take customer service very seriously, and as part of our global drive to Outserve our rivals, we now have service initiatives underway in every country across the network.
In Kenya, we started what we call the C or customer Drive, whereby each of our employees called ten customers to thank them for their business.
Understanding diversity for enhanced performance Our approach to diversity and inclusion focuses on respecting individual differences to deliver higher performance.
As well as establishing the Banks Diversity Council in 2004, we invited 50 women from around the world to our first Executive Womens Forum.
Our International Partnership Week shown right aimed to improve the way we do business by learning from other cultures.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Standard Chartered 17
