SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 04 It is now over three years since the launch of Europe I and II and an uncalled commitment to CEOs operating review SVG Capitals fund management business, SVG Permira Europe III of 367 million.
In that time, combined third-party establishment, distributions and uplifts in value funds under management and commitments of portfolio companies have outweighed have grown from zero to approximately management fees, which given the size of 1.5 billion and the business made a modest P123s commitment to Permira Europe III, profit in 2004. compared to its exposure to the more cash generative secondary assets a ratio of over This successful growth has been achieved in 3:1, is particularly encouraging.
a difficult fund raising environment for private equity, and the team has reacted quickly to In September 2004, we successfully closed 1 changes in the marketplace.
Over this time, SVG Diamond, a 400 million Collateralised SVG Advisers has built a reputation for Fund Obligation CFO of private equity innovation, and for performance in all of funds.
SVG Diamond comprises 260 million its products.
of investment grade bonds and preferred equity shares representing commitments The business now advises four private equity of 140 million at closing.
SVG Diamond is funds of funds and two public equity funds and one of the few investment vehicles to have we expect to launch further funds this year.
successfully raised capital from the fixed income markets for investment in private Private equity equity, and is the first of its kind to incorporate The Schroder Private Equity Fund of Funds I drawable equity, reinvestment and over and II, which are advised by SVG Advisers, commitment strategies.
Its portfolio will reported strong results during the year.
include both secondary and primary private Both funds of funds have benefited from equity fund commitments, predominantly early realisations in their underlying portfolios, focused on buy-outs in Western Europe and and both are ahead on cash generation.
SVG Capital has an uncalled Schroder Private Equity Fund of Funds I, which commitment of 50 million to the preferred closed in 2002 with commitments totalling equity shares.
242 million is almost fully committed, with commitments to 22 underlying funds broadly Public equity split between the US and Europe.
Its successor The two funds launched by SVG Advisers fund, the Schroder Private Equity Fund of public equity team, the SVG UK Focus Funds II, closed in 2004 with commitments Fund a Dublin listed OEIC and The Strategic The team continue to look at totalling 285 million and follows the same Recovery Fund a UK Limited Partnership investment guidelines as its predecessor.
It has have performed very well over the year, potential new innovative made 12 commitments to date and we both significantly outperforming public investment products and we anticipate that it will be substantially committed markets.
The team now advises combined hope to launch at least one within the next six months.
commitments, funds and segregated mandates of approximately 170 million, new private equity fund of P123, the fund of Permira pan-European versus 41 million at the beginning of funds and one new public buy-out funds, in which SVG Capital has a 2004, and we expect to launch a successor 38% holding, has benefited from significant fund to The Strategic Recovery Fund during equity fund during the cash distributions during the year.
P123 the course of 2005. course of 2005. closed in December 2003 with 167 million Nicholas Ferguson, Chief Executive of commitments from external investors, 105 million of secondary assets in Permira 1 SVG Diamond Private Equity plc and SVG Diamond Holdings Limited SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 The SVG UK Focus Fund reported an increase in Johns counsel and leadership have played an net assets per share of 19.4%, over the year to integral part in all of these achievements, and 31 December 2004.
The fund was established on behalf of the Board of Directors and the in August 2003 with net assets of 15.4 million, shareholders, I would like to thank him most including a 7.6 million cornerstone investment warmly for his excellent stewardship of the from SVG Capital, with the objective of Company over the last nine successful years.
maximising returns for investors, predominantly through capital growth, by investing in quoted Outlook equities using private equity techniques.
At The team continue to look at potential new 31 December 2004, the fund held 34 innovative investment products and we hope investments in a variety of sectors and had to launch at least one new private equity fund grown its net assets over the year from of funds and one new public equity fund 26.1 million to 90.6 million.
Since our initial during the course of 2005. investment in the fund, in August 2003, SVG Capitals holding has appreciated by 27.6% to Over the last three years we have invested in 2 9.7 million, out-performing the FTSE All-Share the infrastructure and staffing of SVG by 9.0% over the same period.
The team has doubled since SVG Advisers was established in 2001, and the The Strategic Recovery Fund had a final closing business is well placed to capitalise on the in January 2004 with total capital commitments opportunities to create innovative products of 15 million, including an investment of for investment in private equity or public 7.4 million from SVG Capital.
The fund was equity using private equity techniques.
established with an investment objective of investing in publicly listed UK companies that are undervalued and could benefit from strategic, operational or management change.
Since its establishment the fund has made five investments and at 31 December 2004 reported a net IRR of 68% on its called capital, a weighted out-performance of the FTSE Nicholas Ferguson All-Share Total Return Index of 56%.
Chief Executive Board succession John McLachlan, who has been Chairman of SVG Capital since its establishment in May 1996, has decided to retire at the forthcoming AGM.
Under his Chairmanship, net assets have grown from 187.0 million to 676.4 million, outperforming the market on a compound basis by 13.2% p. a. the Company has committed over 1.3 billion to private equity, and it has established a successful and prospering fund management business.
SVG Capital is now a FTSE 250 company and one of the largest investment companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
