Chief Executive Ofcers Review Jim Horsburgh Review In all these rms the fund managers own all or at least a On 15 September 2004 we announced our new manager line-up.
significant part of the equity of the rm.
This aligns the interests You will already have read about each of our managers, their of the business owners and the fund managers with those of investment philosophies and their stock selection processes in their clients.
the documentation that we sent out at the time of the announcement.
Each of the fund managers commentaries that Performance follow starts with an explanation in their own words of their In the year under review, Witan underperformed over the first investment approach.
nine months, which included the transition although that was responsible for very little of the underperformance and It is worth reiterating what we are trying to do with these changes.
outperformed both the FTSE All-Share Index and the FTSE World Put simply, we aim to improve the investment performance ex UK Index in the final quarter as shown in the table below without signicantly changing the underlying characteristics of the first quarter of our new management arrangements.
Witan is still primarily invested in equities, it is still is gratifying that the new structure has got off to a good start, it internationally diversied with a bias towards the UK equity is far too early to be claiming it a success.
These fund managers market which helps to provide a higher than average yield, and were appointed to perform in the long term and that is how they for an equity investment it is still at the medium to low end of the must be judged.
To improve performance, we took the view that we Performance Breakdown had to be more intelligent in the way that we spent that risk based on AITC capital NAVs budget.
So areas where statistically we had less probability of 31.12.03 30.09.04 nding an outperforming manager the UK and the USA, the more to 30.09.04 to 31.12.04 Witan 0.9 6.9 efficient markets we reduced the riskiness of the portfolio: in areas Benchmark 1.9 5.8 where we had greatest probability of outperforming we increased The benchmark is based on the FTSE All-Share Index and the FTSE World ex the riskiness of the portfolio.
That is not to say that we are UK Index in the ratio 60:40 for the nine months to 30 September 2004 and in the ratio 50:50 for the final quarter of the year.
expecting our UK and US managers not to perform we expect all the managers over the medium term to outperform but that a Market Background greater contribution to performance will come from those 2004 was a year of solid economic growth throughout most of managers who are taking higher risks because, as you know, the the developed world.
Most stockmarkets gave decent high single higher the risk, the greater the potential reward.
gure or above returns to investors, despite the fact that there were plenty of things for investors to worry about.
The year Our UK and US mainstream managers are likely to have a started with many commentators concerned about the outlook performance close to that of the markets in which they invest.
for US growth, raising the spectre of deation.
Then surging oil The other six managers will not.
In recruiting these managers, prices, the ever-growing US budget and trade deficits, the falling we were looking for rms that had a strong investment dollar and nally rising interest rates all gave cause for concern, philosophy, which, in the long term, could be shown to add along with the ever-present threat of terrorism.
Against this value, that had a clear, rigorous and disciplined investment background, equities were almost serene in their upward path.
process which they adhered to, even through the bad times, and The lack of volatility in major markets, as noted by Southeastern for rms that had a long-term record of outperformance.
We also and Henderson in their commentaries, is worth emphasising strove to ensure that the individuals on our account were clearly in 2003 the S & P moved more than 2% on thirty separate days, associated with that performance record.
All of the managers we in 2004 there were no occasions when US share prices moved by employ meet all these criteria.
6 that amount in any single day, and this was an election year.
Conclusion Volatility is low not only at the aggregate level but also at the The most reasonable expectation for world stockmarkets is for level of individual share prices.
This makes outperformance returns similar to, although perhaps slightly lower than, 2004. harder to come by for stockpickers but, as can be seen from the Your Board believes that stockpicking skills will drive returns and evidence of the final quarter of 2004, not impossible.
Looking that your Trust with its new manager line-up is well positioned forward it is tempting to believe that 2005 will be a repeat of to take advantage of this environment.
2004 both for economies and markets.
Certainly, the perceived threats to a benign outcome are presently the same as persisted for most of last year and markets at the time of writing have got Jim Horsburgh off to a good start.
14 February 2005 The US dollar may well prove to be the critical indicator in 2005.
It has started the year well recouping some of its falls from the end of last year.
Changes in US taxation mean that companies may well take advantage of a one-year tax window to repatriate the earnings of overseas subsidiaries, thereby creating steady demand for the dollar, but on the other hand the trade deficit gets ever larger so the likelihood is for further falls.
The extent and rate of fall may well become a concern for stock and bond markets.
A weak dollar has the effect of boosting the US and Pacic Basin at least those countries where the exchange rates are tied to the US dollar and putting pressure on the economies of Japan and Europe.
This has not affected signicantly the companies we hold in these areas either because they are domestic-orientated with few overseas competitors or because they produce many of their goods in dollar regions e. g. South East Asia.
Further dollar falls will however put strains on these economies and add to the inationary pressures that may be building up in the USA rising commodity prices and loose monetary and scal policy.
There are no signs of ination in the USA at the moment because of global competitive pressures, but at some point over the next twelve months US ination may become a factor for markets.
Although your Board monitors Witans overall asset allocation on a regular basis, the day to day allocation is essentially in the hands of our global managers MFS and Southeastern.
They are allowed to invest without geographical constraint in any stock that their analysis suggests will add to the performance of Witan.
At the moment, against the FTSE World ex UK Index, that leaves our overseas portfolio very underweight in the US, where companies are judged to be expensive, and overweight elsewhere.
