qxd 13 3 05 12:06 pm Page 6 Chief executives review Maximising our energy expertise In North America we bought The year saw another stage in the evolution Residential Services Group, of Centrica as we refocused our business on two small automation and control companies and the core areas of expertise and value which acquired an incumbent retail will drive our future growth position in Alberta with the one million customers of ATCO.
Group To support our downstream Overview of 2004 earnings were up by 18% businesses we acquired two We sold the AA in the second in the year.
power stations in Texas and half of the year, realising a Wholesale gas prices added gas reserves in Alberta.
once again dominated the We made continued We also raised our ordinary energy landscape with the progress in North America, dividend payout ratio to 40% market price for gas in 2004 raising operating profit while of earnings 2003: 32% and 29% above that for 2003. growing the business, returned a further 1.3 billion This brought an unavoidable increasing our retail footprint to our shareholders through round of retail tariff increases and expanding our operations a special dividend and a share across the industry.
Energy and servicing offers to consumers reacted to these commercial customers.
price increases and the total Centrica Storage also level of churn rose markedly, produced an excellent Operating overview with British Gas, as the operating result, more reective market leader, suffering of the underlying performance Refocus on energy and related services disproportionately.
We put of the business, as the last following disposal of the AA.
measures in place to address this.
Since our price rise was Year-on-year improvement in operating announced we have launched We are taking a range of new products profit in all downstream businesses.
decisive action to in British Gas and have increased our focus on selling make our business Improved operating margin in with the delivery of the crossleaner and more selling capability in our British Gas despite wholesale price transformation programme.
competitive rises and customer losses.
Decisive We are already seeing a positive impact with net losses actions have been taken to begin to beginning to fall.
of the low-priced legacy regrow the energy customer base.
We completed several forward-sales contracts key acquisitions during 2004. nished in April 2004. significant Centrica Storage operating Upstream in the UK we We carried out an internal increased support for our retail restructuring of our telecoms profit growth, reecting increasing electricity business with the business, building on the brand, strategic value of storage.
acquisition of a CCGT power infrastructure and expertise station and a new-build CCGT of One.
Tel and the increased site along with an onshore scale that came from the Continuing to build strong strategic windfarm development in Telco Global acquisition.
growth platform in North America.
We also added British Gas and Centrica further gas reserves with the Business Services will now sell High wholesale prices pushed acquisition of shares in the products under the One.
Tel Statfjord and Horne and Wren brand on a commission basis.
industrial and wholesale business elds.
We grew our telecoms This consolidation will into first operating loss.
business in Britain through the greatly improve the operating acquisition of Telco Global and cost base of this business added the Dyno-Rod brand to and create a platform for One.
our capability in British Gas.
including joint ventures and associates, before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 6 Annual report 2004 Centrica plc CT001 p06-p08 AW.
qxd 13 3 05 12:06 pm Page 7 The achievements of our outbound telephone sales Operating profit by business m people have been outstanding function.
These actions will 2004 2003 during 2004, continuing to meet be facilitated by the system British Gas Residential 337 206 our customers very diverse developments which underpin Centrica Business Services 64 51 needs against the backdrop the wider transformation Centrica Storage 69 40 of a highly competitive of British Gas.
We will roll-out Centrica Energy 512 561 marketplace.
I would like to nationwide our new on-call One.
Tel 16 4 join the chairman in thanking assistance service which gives all our people for their ongoing all British Gas customers Centrica North America 134 130 and valued commitment.
access to our unique asset, Other operations 5 the national engineering Discontinued operations 90 66 2005 operating plan workforce, for emergency Group 1,227 1,058 We expect 2005 to be no call-outs.
This will bring our including joint ventures and associates, before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items less demanding than 2004. customers the peace of mind Wholesale prices will continue that comes from inviting only proposition and our upstream to challenge energy retailers.
a highly qualified and trusted supply operation.
We will also At the end of 2004 the professional into their home.
concentrate on identifying all demand-weighted market gas This year will also see the opportunities to reduce price for 2005 was 22% higher start of the roll-out of the new further our cost base by than 2004, with gas for the billing system which will restructuring our UK support fourth quarter of 2005 trading simplify our communications operations around this single at 40p per therm, 16% higher with our customers and focus, which will remove any than the fourth quarter of improve our ability to compete duplicated activities and drive 2004.
We still believe that this effectively while maintaining out inefficiencies.
forward price level may not be supported by the market Centrica Business Services fundamentals.
For example, British Gas is Centrica Business Services in 2005 the UK will see an intensifying its will be renamed British Gas increase in gas import Business.
Here we will capacity with the opening efforts to retain complete the integration of the first four billion cubic existing and win of Electricity Direct as part metre BCM stage of the Isle of a wider drive towards of Grain liquefied natural gas new customers the most efficient cost base LNG terminal and the first and operating structure.
of two increases in the reverse Having successfully completed flow capacity of the current levels of service.
In order high-level systems design European interconnector which to ensure customer service on our billing and customer will add a further eight BCM.
remains unaffected, we have service initiative, we will now extended both the testing proceed to the systems build British Gas Residential and planned roll-out phases stage.
This will help us British Gas is intensifying its and now expect to complete maintain our position as the efforts to retain existing and in the second half of 2006. leading supplier of energy win new customers so it can The refocus on energy begin to grow its energy base and related services which products to the commercial again, with the emphasis on we undertook in 2004 will sector in Britain.
We will also maximising value.
We will be trialling several new service new product propositions, centre our UK business even propositions which are based including an innovative threemore clearly on the British Gas on successful Home Services winter capped price dual fuel brand.
This will enable us products in British Gas.
Based offer, which are already being to drive forward two key on customer reaction we will received very positively.
We objectives in the year.
We will progress to a nationwide rollare actively increasing the size seek to optimise our gross out with the products where of the directly employed field margin by reinforcing the link there is potential to grow scale sales force and enlarging our between the customer and value.
Annual report 2004 Centrica plc 7 CT001 p06-p08 AW.
qxd 13 3 05 12:06 pm Page 8 Chief executives review continued Group operating profit m Centrica Energy Storage is well positioned to of call centre activity to Centrica Energy will play take advantage of the growth One.
Tels now well-established an increasingly important role in demand for storage services, operations in India.
We will continue demonstrated by the fact that We will continue to in 2005 to seek opportunities we have now sold 100% of contribute to Ofcoms Strategic 1000 to acquire value-adding assets the storage capacity at the Review of the Telecoms market, and agree further long-term Rough eld for the 2005 2006 with a particular focus on 500 contracts, both in power and in year at prices well above those achieving equivalence between gas as the pricing environment of the current year.
We will BT and its competitors in key 0 improves.
We have a strong continue to invest in the areas such as wholesale line 00 01 02 03 04 balance sheet and the infrastructure of the eld rental WLR and broadband.
expertise to identify these and concentrate our efforts opportunities and we will also on maintaining and improving Europe after goodwill amortisation and remain patient and disciplined the reliability of injection In general, Europe is exceptional items, including buyers.
Our healthy supply and withdrawal.
There are, joint ventures and associates before goodwill amortisation and position resulting from the however, opportunities for us exceptional items, including long-term gas supply contracts North America to create value as we build joint ventures and associates that we struck over the last few In North America we will build out from our current positions years and our existing assets on the foundations we have in Belgium and Spain.
We will underpin this disciplined created.
We will seek to grow remain patient but will not approach.
In line with previous our retail footprint in the areas hesitate to move rapidly when guidance, we expect the 2005 where we currently have a we identify an opening.
production from Morecambe strong presence, while to be between 15% and 20% continuing to build our Summary power generation portfolio In summary, the outlook specifically in support of our for commodity prices will downstream operations.
continue to dominate the We will continue to Business Markets will be a landscape and we will do seek opportunities key focus for us as we grow our utmost to minimise the our demand by offering an impact on our customers and to acquire valueend-to-end solution to shareholders.
We are taking adding assets commercial customers in decisive action to make our existing and new territories, business leaner and more assisted by the control and competitive.
I believe we are lower than 2004, with 2006 automation expertise which well placed to meet the around 25% to 30% lower we acquired in 2004.
We will challenges and take advantage again.
We will be delivering drive further efficiencies in the of the opportunities that we renewables capacity through Home Services business, see in the coming year.
the year with construction using learnings from the UK, of the windfarms onshore in as we fully integrate the Aberdeenshire and offshore Residential Services Group at Barrow, and the award of we acquired in 2004. the contract for offshore Sir Roy Gardner construction at Lynn and Inner Telecoms Chief Executive Dowsing in the Wash. We will In telecoms we will complete also make a decision on the the internal restructure which next step with our consented will leave us with a reduced CCGT site at Langage in Devon.
cost base and a business better able to address future Centrica Storage growth opportunities.
Given the low levels of As part of this change, storage capacity in the UK we will fully integrate the Telco and increasing dependency Global business and carefully on imported gas, Centrica manage the further outsourcing 8 Annual report 2004 Centrica plc
