com Chief Executives review Sales of Iressa $389 million grew well in those decided that AstraZeneca had not established a markets where it is available and, early in the year, favourable benefit risk profile for the drug and did exciting science emerged indicating that certain not approve it for use in the US market.
In Europe, patients with non-small cell lung cancer NSCLC Exanta is already marketed in many countries for carried genetic mutations that appeared to make the prevention of clots after orthopaedic surgery, them particularly sensitive to the beneficial effects but more clinical data will be required before of the drug.
Disappointingly however, the ISEL approval for long term use can be considered.
study, designed to study the effect of Iressa compared to placebo on survival in refractory Despite these setbacks, we remain committed to NSCLC, failed to meet its primary endpoint of building our future on science and innovation and survival in the overall population, although there believe AstraZeneca has the capacity to succeed I am confident in our future were statistically significant differences in survival in an increasingly competitive healthcare market.
in favour of Iressa in patients of East Asian origin We are determined to apply the learning from these prospects despite the and non-smokers.
In the East Asian subgroup recent experiences and ensure that we better recent disappointments.
there was a near doubling of median survival manage the risks inherent in this strategy to deliver which is consistent with the positive benefit risk an innovative and valuable pipeline that will sustain Sir Tom McKillop ratio seen in previous studies in these patients.
the Company over the long term whilst allowing us While sales will continue in all markets where the to return value to our shareholders in the short term.
At the start of 2004, the year seemed full of drug is currently approved, the Company has opportunity: AstraZeneca was moving into a new chosen to suspend promotion in the US until The appointment of John Patterson to the Board and exciting phase.
The excellent foundations the implications of the ISEL results have been as Executive Director responsible for Development created by a successful merger and the discussed with the regulatory authorities.
reflects the importance we attach to our ability to subsequent transformation of an ageing product The application for marketing approval of Iressa convert science into sales.
John has immense portfolio had set us up for strong growth from in the EU has been withdrawn but we will continue experience in drug development and will be working our key products.
The growth portfolio, including to work with opinion leaders and regulators to to optimise our capabilities in this critical area.
products that were on the range before the determine the most appropriate next steps for merger, such as Seroquel and Arimidex, and this innovative medicine.
We are also determined The Company has, since its creation, placed great newly introduced products, such as Nexium, to benefit from this experience with Iressa and emphasis on productivity and this will continue, Crestor, Symbicort and Iressa, provided an apply the learning to the other exciting novel indeed accelerate, to ensure we are at the forefront excellent opportunity to deliver value to physicians, cancer therapies we have in development.
of our industry as it goes through a period of patients and shareholders alike.
2004 also proved to be a challenging year for two While we made good progress in this respect, key products in our cardiovascular range.
Crestor, The problems encountered in 2004 with Iressa, building on the success of our gastroenterology, our new lipid-lowering drug, first launched in 2003, Crestor and Exanta are, themselves, illustrative cardiovascular, respiratory, neuroscience and has now been approved in 67 countries launched of issues that are faced by all who are committed oncology franchises, we also experienced in 56 and achieved sales of $908 million in 2004. to innovation as a source of progress, the disappointments with Exanta and Iressa and some Its ability to control lipid disorders more effectively enhancement of quality of life and the creation difficult market conditions with Crestor.
than any other available statin has been well of value.
Innovation, in any field, is associated with recognised by prescribers but, during the year, risk but in healthcare, in particular, where unmet Nexium 2004 sales $3.9 billion is now recognised the product was the subject of speculation that needs in the developed and developing worlds as one of the most successful products in our questioned its safety profile.
Patient safety continue to increase, the innovators contract with industry and it has continued to grow, both in the is the highest priority for AstraZeneca and we have society needs to reflect an appropriate balance important US market and worldwide, despite an worked diligently and transparently to monitor, of benefit to risk.
During the communicate and mitigate any risk associated year, we added Nexium Intravenous to the product with the use of Crestor.
We remain confident that I would like to express our condolences to all range and the recent, well-publicised problems the clear benefits of Crestor are achieved with a those affected by the tsunami disaster.
I am sad with the new class of anti-inflammatory drugs, safety profile in line with that of other marketed to report that, to date, three of our employees are such as Vioxx, offers further opportunities for members of the class.
Our confidence derives still missing.
Our deepest sympathies go to Nexium, which is approved for the prevention from an extensive database involving over their families and friends.
We immediately of the gastrointestinal side effects associated 40,000 patients in clinical trials and postcontributed $600,000 in cash, made our drugs with such anti-inflammatory drugs.
marketing surveillance of more than 15 million available where appropriate and have created a prescriptions written and four million patients fund of $1.5 million to help with reconstruction Seroquel $2.0 billion continues to grow strongly treated with Crestor.
projects being implemented through our local and is increasingly recognised by patients and companies in the affected areas.
doctors for its outstanding safety and efficacy Exanta, AstraZenecas innovative oral therapy for profile.
During 2004, Seroquel became the leading the treatment of diseases associated with blood Finally, I once again thank my colleagues on the atypical anti-psychotic therapy in the US market clots, was launched in its first markets in 2004 for Executive Team for their continuing commitment based on monthly new prescriptions and made the prevention of blood clots following orthopaedic and support and also our employees around the strong progress in other markets.
Exanta is the first oral anti-coagulant to be world.
Their contribution, their skills and their opportunities to extend the use of Seroquel also developed for more than 60 years, and its greatest abilities are the building blocks of our future.
emerged with the exciting results from clinical potential is in the chronic prevention of strokes and studies in the treatment of bipolar depression and other events related to blood clots in patients at high the management of agitation in the elderly.
risk as a result of the common heart rhythm disorder, atrial fibrillation.
During a development programme Our leading range of anti-hormonal cancer therapies that involved more than 30,000 patients, we continued to make a major contribution to the established that the drug had the potential to be business and there is considerable scope for an effective alternative to the only existing therapy further growth.
In particular, positive five-year data in this area warfarin but also discovered that Sir Tom McKillop from the landmark ATAC study have established Exanta had an undesirable impact on the livers of a Chief Executive Arimidex as the agent of choice in the adjuvant small percentage of treated patients.
Following a treatment of breast cancer, replacing Nolvadex review at a public Advisory Committee hearing in tamoxifen as the new gold standard for treatment.
Washington in September 2004, the US FDA
