AstraZeneca Annual Report and Chief Executives Review 04 Form 20-F Information 2004 Chief Executives Review I am confident in the future prospects for AstraZeneca, despite the recent disappointments.
At the start of 2004, the year seemed full of Seroquel $2.0 billion continues to grow these patients.
While sales will continue in opportunity: AstraZeneca was moving into strongly and is increasingly recognised all markets where the drug is currently a new and exciting phase.
The excellent by patients and doctors for its outstanding approved, the Company has chosen to foundations created by a successful merger safety and efficacy profile.
During 2004, suspend promotion in the US until the and the subsequent transformation of an Seroquel became the leading atypical implications of the ISEL results have been ageing product portfolio had set us up for anti-psychotic therapy in the US market discussed with the regulatory authorities.
strong growth from our key products.
The based on monthly new prescriptions and The application for marketing approval of growth portfolio, including products that made strong progress in other markets.
Iressa in the EU has been withdrawn but we were on the range before the merger, such Important new opportunities to extend the will continue to work with opinion leaders as Seroquel and Arimidex, and newly use of Seroquel also emerged with the and regulators to determine the most introduced products, such as Nexium, exciting results from clinical studies in the appropriate next steps for this innovative Crestor, Symbicort and Iressa, provided an treatment of bipolar depression and the medicine.
We are also determined to benefit excellent opportunity to deliver value to management of agitation in the elderly.
from this experience with Iressa and apply physicians, patients and shareholders alike.
the learning to the other exciting novel The Companys leading range of anticancer therapies we have in development.
While we made good progress in this hormonal cancer therapies continued to respect, building on the success of our make a major contribution to the business 2004 also proved to be a challenging year gastroenterology, cardiovascular, and there is considerable scope for further for two key products in our cardiovascular respiratory, neuroscience and oncology growth.
In particular, positive five-year range.
franchises, we also experienced data from the landmark ATAC study have disappointments with Exanta and Iressa established Arimidex as the agent of choice Crestor, our new lipid-lowering drug, first and some difficult market conditions in the adjuvant treatment of breast cancer launched in 2003, has now been approved in with Crestor.
replacing Nolvadex tamoxifen as the new 67 countries launched in 56 and achieved gold standard for treatment.
Its ability to Nexium 2004 sales $3.9 billion is now control lipid disorders more effectively than recognised as one of the most successful Sales of Iressa $389 million grew well in any other available statin has been well products in our industry and it has those markets where it is available and, recognised by prescribers but, during the continued to grow, both in the important early in the year, exciting science emerged year, the product was the subject of US market and worldwide, despite an indicating that certain patients with nonspeculation that questioned its safety increasingly competitive environment.
small cell lung cancer NSCLC carried profile.
Patient safety is the highest priority During the year, we added Nexium genetic mutations that appeared to make for AstraZeneca and the Company has Intravenous to the product range and them particularly sensitive to the beneficial worked diligently and transparently the recent, well-publicised problems effects of the drug.
Disappointingly to monitor, communicate and mitigate with the new class of anti-inflammatory however, the ISEL study, designed to study any risk associated with the use of Crestor.
drugs, such as Vioxx, offers further the effect of Iressa compared to placebo on We remain confident that the clear benefits opportunities for Nexium, which is approved survival in refractory NSCLC, failed to meet of Crestor are achieved with a safety for the prevention of the gastrointestinal its primary endpoint of survival in the overall profile in line with that of other marketed side effects associated with such antipopulation, although there were statistically members of the class.
significant differences in survival in favour derives from an extensive database of Iressa in patients of East Asian origin and involving over 40,000 patients in clinical non-smokers.
In the East Asian subgroup trials and post-marketing surveillance of there was a near doubling of median more than 15 million prescriptions written survival which is consistent with the positive and four million patients treated benefit risk ratio seen in previous studies in with Crestor.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Chief Executives Review Form 20-F Information 2004 05 Exanta, AstraZenecas innovative oral The appointment of John Patterson to the Finally, I once again thank my colleagues therapy for the treatment of diseases Board as Executive Director responsible for on the Executive Team for their continuing associated with blood clots, was launched Development reflects the importance we commitment and support throughout the in its first markets in 2004 for the prevention attach to our ability to convert science into year and also our employees around the of blood clots following orthopaedic surgery.
John has immense experience in world.
Their contribution, their skills and Exanta is the first oral anti-coagulant to be drug development and will be working to their abilities are the building blocks of developed for more than 60 years, and its optimise our capabilities in this critical area.
greatest potential is in the chronic prevention of strokes and other events related to blood The Company has, since its creation, placed clots in patients at high risk as a result of great emphasis on productivity and this will the common heart rhythm disorder, atrial continue, indeed accelerate, to ensure we fibrillation.
During a development programme are at the forefront of our industry as it goes that involved more than 30,000 patients, through a period of considerable change.
we established that the drug had the Sir Tom McKillop potential to be an effective alternative to the The problems encountered in 2004 with Chief Executive only existing therapy in this area warfarin Iressa, Crestor and Exanta are, themselves, but also discovered that Exanta had an illustrative of issues that are faced by all who undesirable impact on the livers of a small are committed to innovation as a source of percentage of treated patients.
Following progress, the enhancement of quality of life a review at a public Advisory Committee and the creation of value.
Innovation, in any hearing in Washington in September 2004, field, is associated with risk but in the US FDA decided that AstraZeneca had healthcare, in particular, where unmet not established a favourable benefit risk needs in the developed and developing profile for the drug and did not approve it worlds continue to increase, the innovators for use in the US market.
In Europe, Exanta contract with society needs to reflect an is already marketed in many countries for appropriate balance of benefit to risk.
the prevention of clots after orthopaedic surgery, but more clinical data will be I would like to express the Companys required before approval for long term condolences to all those affected by the use can be considered.
I am sad to report that, to date, three of our employees are still Despite these setbacks, we remain missing.
Our deepest sympathies go to committed to building our future on science their families and friends.
The Company and innovation and believe AstraZeneca immediately contributed $600,000 in cash, has the capacity to succeed in an made our drugs available where appropriate increasingly competitive healthcare market.
and has created a fund of $1.5 million to We are determined to apply the learning help with reconstruction projects being from these recent experiences and ensure implemented through our local companies that we better manage the risks inherent in in the affected areas.
this strategy to deliver an innovative and valuable pipeline that will sustain the Company over the long term whilst allowing us to return value to our shareholders in the short term.
