4 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 Chief Executives statement New wave business ICT used to be an aspiration: its now a reality.
We had a superb year with ICT orders worth more than 7 billion up 59% on just a year ago.
The three deals we signed with the NHS, for example expected to be worth more than 2.1 billion indicate our strength in this market.
I believe that we have something very special to offer the ability to act as the telco inside our customers organisations.
We offer our customers businesses and other large organisations, including local and national government the chance to enhance their productivity, through expert management of their information systems, desktop to desktop.
We live in an era of greater customer And we have a full range of network-centric ICT choice than we have ever seen before.
This solutions depending on what our customers want choice is good for customers and good for from full service assurance across their ICT our industry.
infrastructure, through monitoring levels of service throughout their operations, to validation of their Changes in technology are leading to changes in networks, data centres and desktops.
People are, for example, spending more time on the internet and sending information by Broadband e-mail, where once they would have used the phone or Its been a tremendous year for broadband as well.
People were sceptical when we said wed reach two This transformation is putting converged services million DSL wholesale lines by the summer of 2004. at the heart of our offering, enabling our customers to What nobody expected was that we would achieve two communicate wherever they happen to be.
As at 14 May 2004, we had As we move from a narrowband to a broadband 2.45 million and climbing.
The UK is now moving world, we are offering a new mix of products and towards the top of the broadband league.
And our programme for upgrading our exchanges services in new markets ICT, broadband, mobility to broadband has been extremely effective in bringing and managed services.
the benets of this amazing technology to some of the Technology substitution is also having a remoter parts of the UK.
In April 2004, we announced significant impact in our traditional voice markets, a roll-out plan that will bring broadband to 99.6% of where xed-to-xed voice revenues were down in both the UKs homes and businesses.
the consumer and business markets.
The announcement, in May 2004, that we will This is both a challenge and an opportunity.
We have to respond to those changes in technology, the redesign and reduce the cost of our local loop market and behaviour, at the same time as working to unbundling product, should encourage investment in accelerate them.
broadband infrastructure and promote innovation.
Its We have to be absolutely focused on defending a major move towards the telecommunications market and reinventing our traditional markets, through of the future.
imaginative sales and marketing, through delivering In the consumer broadband market weve teamed the right products at the right prices.
And we have to up with Yahoo!
to offer compelling, world-class content follow our customers where they want to go, offering and launched a suite of new products that will enable them new, exible services that match their changing customers to get the most from broadband.
A couple personal and business needs.
of years ago we were among the first to offer a broadband connection for less than 30 a month.
This Customer satisfaction year weve broken the 20 barrier, with an entry-level Our passion for customers is at the heart of everything broadband product for just 19.99 a month.
A year ago we launched our brand promise to Mobility make every customer experience simple and We also stepped back into the consumer mobility complete.
This is essential to driving down customer market with BT Mobile Home Plan and we established the high street presence that will enable us to offer dissatisfaction, which remains a critical goal for us.
In converged products and services in the future.
the 2004 financial year, we reduced dissatisfaction by Again, our goal is to offer communications 22%.
exibility, enabling our customers to communicate the As customer dissatisfaction is driven down, so is information they choose, in the way that they choose, the cost of failure.
A great customer experience and using whatever communications device they choose.
cost savings really can be two sides of the same coin.
In May 2004, we announced that we will be Getting things right for customers the first time keeps them loyal, contributes to cost effectiveness, and working with Vodafone UK to dismantle the barriers boosts our reputation.
between xed and mobile services, by offering fully converged, xed mobile services in the business and 5 Chief Executives statement BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 consumer mobile markets.
Our customers will benefit telecommunications companies but that we still have from being able to communicate and access the same some way to go to achieve best-in-class costs.
information and services however and wherever they In the last three years, weve made major reductions in want: whether they are connected to a xed network the costs of our operations and weve identied a or on the move.
further 1 billion that can be achieved.
For our larger business customers we also offer Our Hands Off Access Network HOAN project, convergence, managing their xed and mobile for example, is helping to improve network efficiency communications seamlessly.
by minimising manual network intervention and And the growth of Wi-Fi wireless broadband reducing the need for exchange visits.
suggests that it could well be one of those This is not about cutting corners or compromising technologies which rapidly becomes a part of our on service, but about nding innovative, cost-effective customers lives.
Once theyve experienced it, they new ways to meet customers needs.
nd it hard to imagine life without it.
And, over the next few years, well be creating the 21st century network.
We are transforming our Traditional business networks, converging them on to a modern, single, Given the impact of new technology and increasing multi-purpose platform that will enable us to reduce competition, voice call volumes may no longer be the costs, meet customers changing needs and improve absolute guide to the health of the company that they customer satisfaction.
The 21st century network will once were, but they remain a fundamental part of our offer higher performance in return for lower operating business and we are bringing an innovative approach costs.
to product development, sales and marketing in the voice calls business.
Robust defence doesnt mean Our people retreat, it means seizing new opportunities.
Of course, without the commitment and hard work of BT Together, for example, has been a major BT people, our strategy would be nothing more than success with around nine million customers.
During the words on the page.
year, we announced that we will be abolishing the A year ago, we introduced our new values standard rate for our existing customers from 1 July trustworthy, helpful, inspiring, straightforward, heart.
2004, and launched an enhanced range of option Since then, our people have translated those values packages.
In the business calls market BT Business into action, driving down customer dissatisfaction, Plan has had similar success customer numbers were defending the traditional business and winning up from 20,000 to 175,000 in the year.
And BT Local business in new markets.
Business is demonstrating that getting close to our Were very proud of what theyve done and of customers can deliver significant revenue benets.
what they are continuing to do.
Cost leadership Cost leadership is vital to the accelerating transformation of BT.
We can and must operate as efficiently and effectively as possible, benchmarking our costs against those of other European telecommunications Ben Verwaayen companies.
Most recently, these comparisons showed Chief Executive that our costs are better than average for large 19 May 2004
