Chairman and Chief Executives overview 2004 was a good year for Hanson, thanks to the hard work of our 27,400 people during a period of change.
I am now going to stand down, having been Chairman since Hanson became a focused building materials company in 1998.
I shall be sorry to leave, but am delighted to be handing over to Mike Welton.
I know that he will make a big contribution to Hanson in the future.
Christopher Collins Chairman, Hanson PLC We have a balanced focus on aggregates and building products.
We have the strategy and people to invest and grow your business.
Alan Murray Chief Executive, Hanson PLC 2 Chairman and Chief Executives overview Chairman and Chief Executives overview continued Summary Asbestos 2004 was a good year for Hanson.
profit before taxation The gross cost of asbestos claim resolutions in 2004, was 336.8m, 17.8m or 6% above last year.
Turnover before insurance recoveries, was $59m 2003 $43m.
including joint-ventures and associates was 3,810.2m, After tax, and before any insurance recovery, this is 146.3m or 4% below last year, primarily reecting adverse equivalent to approximately 20m or 3.6% of our operating foreign exchange translation of 202.0m.
Following the increase in annual gross cost, we have increased our gross cost provision for the The 6% increase in profit before taxation included an next eight years to $480m 2003 $317m.
increase in property profits of 14.8m offset by increased pension costs of 5.6m and adverse foreign exchange We continue to negotiate and litigate with our insurance translation of 13.6m.
carriers over the extent of our insurance cover.
We support reform at both state and federal level.
Details of our claims Operating highlights and cost experience during 2004 are provided on page 66.
Earnings growth has been delivered through margin increases and improved demand for our products in Returns to shareholders most of our major markets.
The Board recommends a final dividend of 12.80p 2003 11.95p per share.
This, together with the interim Cost savings and operational improvements from the dividend, makes a total of 18.15p 2003 16.95p for the US aggregates reorganisation initiated in 2003 benefited year, an increase of 7.1%.
The Investor information section the 2004 results.
A similar reorganisation was commenced provides payment details.
by UK aggregates in 2004 and benets should accrue in 2005.
The US building products division has improved We commenced an on-market share buyback programme second half profits compared with last year, more than in 2004.
At December 31, 2004, we had spent 26m recovering significant input cost increases.
The UK building buying back 6,350,000 shares which are now held as products division has also increased year-on-year margins treasury shares.
excluding the increased pension charges.
Earnings from Australia increased reecting further volume and margin Corporate governance improvements.
Our reputation is one of our most valuable assets.
This requires transparent accounting, clear communications Operating cash ow of 559.1m highlights the groups and full commitment to health, safety and environmental consistent ability to generate cash from its operations.
Investing highlights We became fully compliant with section 404 of the US 198.6m was invested in capital projects to maintain Sarbanes-Oxley Act in 2004.
This is a year ahead of the and to enhance our existing operations.
Margin enhancing requirement for foreign US registrants and underlines our capital expenditure represented approximately 50% of commitment to strong financial control and discipline.
Capital expenditure will remain disciplined and biased towards projects which we believe Board of Directors will have superior risk return ratios.
After many years service, Simon Keswick and Kenneth Baker step down from the Board after the AGM.
We are Acquisitions and disposals extremely grateful to them both for their contributions.
Hanson acquired nine new businesses in 2004 for 88.4m, the largest of which was Athens Brick in Texas, In 2004 we welcomed Jim Leng as a Non-executive USA.
At the beginning of 2005 we also acquired Marshalls Director on to our Board.
Mike Welton also joined us Clay Products in the UK for 65m.
Such bolt-on acquisitions as a Non-executive Director in January 2005.
Both are a key part of our strategy to generate growth.
bring a wealth of experience and business knowledge.
Mike Welton will become Chairman in April 2005.
These included the sale of our operations in Thailand and several non-core Outlook UK operations.
This reects our strategy of focusing on Operations in Hansons major markets in the USA, the UK core businesses which have strong long-term positions and Australia are expected to experience stable underlying in selected long-term markets.
demand in 2005 and benefit from management initiatives.
Price increases are expected to recover input cost increases.
Additional cost savings should support margin improvement.
We will continue our focused strategy of organic and acquisitive growth combined with financial discipline.
Overall, Hanson anticipates further progress in 2005.
Including joint-ventures and associates and pre-exceptional items Chairman and Chief Executives overview 3 Our strategy remains straightforward.
We intend to generate cash, invest in the business and maintain financial discipline.
Focus aggregates and building products strong long-term positions in selected long-term markets safe, responsible and sustainable operations Generate cash improve margins reduce operating costs and increase efficiency Invest cash maintain and grow the existing business acquire value-adding bolt-on acquisitions Financial discipline strong balance sheet maximise total shareholder return We are committed to creating long-term value for our shareholders.
