Annual Report 2004 Vodafone Group Plc 5 Chief Executives Statement revenue, navigate the forces that impact our business and lay claim to the benefits of our global scale and scope.
Opportunities for Growth At Vodafone we predict significant growth will come from: Telecommunications, Information Technology and Infotainment.
Voice remains at the heart of our business and there continues to be significant demand.
Today, only about 20% of voice usage is mobile, so we can expect some portion of the remaining 80% to migrate to our networks.
It is interesting to note that the growth of mobile has not significantly eroded the value of the fixed line industry.
In effect, mobile has served to increase the value of the entire telecoms industry.
The second growth area is in Information Technology or what we think of as the productivity market.
We plan to grow revenues by mobilising office tools and software applications.
We have already begun by establishing a number of strategic partnerships with other industry players aimed at unleashing powerful 'made for mobile' applications over our 3G networks.
The third area where we see revenue growth potential is Infotainment the combination of information and entertainment.
We have already seen eagerness for TM these services through Vodafone live!.
Our customers can take and send pictures, browse branded infotainment, listen to audio files, watch video clips, play games and customise ringtones with their favourite songs, all from an integrated camera phone and an easy to use icon-driven menu.
Mobile telecommunications is one of the most dynamic industries today.
Its potential is Whilst we have made a strong start, the real opportunity to unearth more revenue vast.
Today wireless technology only reaches one fifth of the world's population.
In comes with 3G, when capacity and speeds are far better than those we have today.
fact, 2 billion people have never even made a phone call.
I'm delighted by the We can't predict all of the applications that customers will want in the coming years prospect that their first call could very well be made on a mobile phone.
but we can anticipate their needs, build the infrastructure and platforms and In the coming years, the increasing number of mobile customers will enjoy a very collaborate with companies that understand how to grant the freedom to play games, different range of services.
With the arrival of 3G and other new technologies and the watch television, conduct business and communicate anywhere and anytime.
significant increase in voice capacity and data rates they provide, the opportunity for Best of all, most of these activities are things people are already doing through growth in this industry is tremendous.
The wireless future holds even more ways for different media today.
Our success doesn't require a big behavioural change.
We are people to share memorable moments, anywhere, anytime.
simply mobilising those things that people are already accustomed to doing.
During my first year with Vodafone I have visited every part of our organisation, met with customers, employees, business leaders, regulators and stakeholders.
I have Forces on the Business reviewed our strategies, studied our operational practices and taken stock of the As we move forward, we must successfully navigate four forces impacting on our business we are managing on behalf of our customers and our shareholders.
I am business customers, technology, competitors and regulation addressing the inspired by what I see.
inherent opportunities and challenges they bring.
Across our business we have plans to capitalise on market trends by applying our Our customers today expect more from us.
They want to pay less yet get greater value understanding of customer needs and deploying systems and technology to deliver for their pound, dollar, euro or yen.
They expect greater coverage and reliability.
high quality, great value, wireless services.
Advances in technology hold the key to delighting our customers and we are fully committed to making 3G deliver on its promises.
We are investing significantly every Our Position year in 3G and we are investing time and energy to encourage cooperation between This past year, Vodafone has delivered another set of solid financial results.
We have vendors so that the mobile environment can operate to global standards that way had excellent customer growth, good revenue growth, continued margin improvement our customers get the best from our services wherever they go.
and generated outstanding free cash flow.
As a result of this performance we propose Another significant force impacting our business is competition.
We face different to increase the dividend by 20% and expand the share purchase programme we competitors across our markets, but we have a tremendous advantage.
Vodafone can introduced at the end of last year.
draw from resources across all our markets and respond competitively in a way that Today we operate across 26 markets, including 16 controlled operations.
In addition, does not impact the performance of the organisation as a whole.
through our Partner Network programme, we have a further presence in 13 markets Regulation is also part of our everyday life.
Regulators understand that Vodafone is an where we have a strong brand and service position without financial investment.
More important company in their respective countries.
They are keenly aware of the than 50,000 Vodafone employees now serve 133 million proportionate customers.
economic and social impact we have on their citizens and communities.
We hope that I believe that our company is in an unprecedented position to take full advantage of future decisions will continue to be made in the best interests of our customers and opportunities in the wireless world.
All of us at Vodafone are working hard to grow the health of this vital global industry.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2004 6 Chief Executives Statement continued Expand market boundaries Our Goals Expanding our market boundaries is another priority for Vodafone.
We continue to build At Vodafone, everything we do furthers our desire to create mobile connections for productive strategic relationships in the mobile environment.
In the productivity areas individuals, businesses and communities.
Our Vision is to be the world's mobile we are working with Microsoft and other IT companies.
In the content areas, we have communications leader and we're delighted by the prospects for the future of our recently taken a big step forward in the music arena through our agreement with Sony industry.
Our commitment to this industry is underlined by our company values, which state In our changing industry, opportunities to expand geographically will continue to that everything we do is driven by our passion for customers, our people, results and present themselves and, if they make sense both strategically and financially, the world around us.
we will give them serious consideration.
The success of our effort requires a commitment to deliver on our six strategic goals: We have just reinforced our long term commitment to Japan by making a further investment of up to 2.6 billion.
Our transactions in Japan will simplify the structure, Provide superior shareholder returns confirm our commitment to the Japanese marketplace and enable us to deliver on the The continued strength in our financial performance enables us to increase returns to changes needed to improve our position.
our shareholders on an ongoing basis.
During the past year we have done this through increasing our dividends and our share purchase programme.
In the next 12 months, Build the best global Vodafone team we intend to expand this share purchase programme further, buying back shares As the business expands and the environment around us evolves, it is crucial for us to worth 3 billion and returning, through our dividends and our share purchases, more develop, recruit and retain the people that will lead us into this new world.
We are than 50% of the cash we have generated.
working hard to make sure our employees have the right skills and knowledge to By delivering on our goals and conducting rigorous economic and financial analyses anticipate our customers' needs.
We are identifying new ways to share the best of before we make pricing, acquisition and scale decisions, we demonstrate the what we do on a global basis.
We continue to reap the benefits of a motivated team discipline to always act in the best interests of our shareholders.
with a strong customer service culture, which will help earn a reputation for Vodafone that is second to none.
Delight our customers We have rededicated ourselves to delighting our customers because we believe this Be a responsible business is the foundation for our continued success.
As a large, multinational company we inevitably raise expectations amongst all our stakeholders and hold ourselves up to public scrutiny.
Being a responsible We recognise that every customer interaction provides another opportunity to win business is about the way we manage our impact on society, the environment and the loyalty and that's why we continue to raise standards on the quality of customer care economy.
We are committed to the highest standards of business integrity and in our call centres and our stores and the quality of our networks.
Key to delighting our customers is our ability to deliver superior voice and data TM Our businesses around the world are important to the infrastructure of the economies services according to differing customer needs.
with 3G has been and societies we serve and we take our broader corporate responsibilities seriously.
introduced in four countries in Europe and several more countries will follow in the Through our actions we will continue to strive to earn the trust and confidence of all next few months.
For our business customers, the launch of Vodafone Mobile Connect our stakeholders worldwide.
3G GPRS datacard in February has been very successful.
Throughout the past few years, Vodafone has done a terrific job of building brand Six Goals, One Aim awareness as we have moved towards a single global brand.
Beyond brand awareness, we want people to understand that the Vodafone name represents great These six goals are well within our reach.
Now it comes down to execution.
Country by service, great value and great innovation.
When our name becomes synonymous with country, we have assembled a team of the most capable leaders in the wireless these attributes we will achieve brand preference and expect to see our market share industry.
They are supported by outstanding people who come to work every day climb as a result.
eager and prepared to delight our customers, win market share and produce great results.
Leverage global scale and scope We are in an enviable industry position to succeed by virtue of our scale and scope Another unique advantage for Vodafone is our expansive global footprint.
Operating in and our operating philosophy.
We are passionate and excited about our future and we 26 markets puts us in an enviable position to leverage our global scale and scope.
We look forward to sharing our success with you in the years ahead.
are using this advantage to deliver exceptional 3G-based services.
When we introduce 3G handsets in large volumes later this year we will be well equipped to drive demand and attract even higher market share in the 3G world.
Another competitive advantage is our leadership position on cost and time to market.
From network services to sales, and marketing to customer care and billing, we have many varied systems in use across the business.
With strong cooperation between our Arun Sarin various operating companies we can achieve further savings.
