Chief and Deputy Chief Executives review From left: Martin Barber, Xavier Pullen Financial results Specialisation has allowed us to invest in management We are pleased to be able to report another set of strong teams intended to be best in class for their own sectors.
financial results for 2004, the second full year of operating Their skills can be spread over bigger portfolios, and they our new business model.
Highlights include: can exploit scale economies for the benefit of occupiers, fund investors and C&R.
l Return on equity before exceptionals for the year 39.0% 2003: 37.6%.
We believe we have some of the most experienced and l Adjusted fully diluted net asset value per share up effective management teams in the industry.
The interests of the management l Profit before tax and exceptional items of 36.2 million teams, the funds and C&R are well aligned by our business 2003: 26.3 million.
We believe that this is at the root of our success.
l 56% increase in the full-year dividend to 14p 2003: 9p.
Business building Background to the financial results 2004 was again a year of business building, with the Groups We are now seeing the benefits of the decision taken to market position strengthened in a number of significant ways: change the strategic direction of the Group and specialise in specific sectors.
l Property under management increased from 2.9 billion to 4.0 billion.
In particular we have increased the The sectors we have chosen in town shopping centres, number of shopping centres we manage from 15 to 21, retail warehouses and leisure are deliberately chosen at 30 December 2004 and to 22 now.
as ones which respond well to active management.
l The X-Leisure Fund was established from the tail end They benefit from being run as businesses, in partnership of the three funds acquired from MWB.
We now have with occupiers.
a vibrant leisure division, with sufficient scale and significant opportunities for future expansion.
The needs of the traders are at the heart of our business, l We have restructured our principal investments via Jersey whether the sector is retail or leisure.
Our centre managers in order to increase liquidity in the market for units.
mainly have a retail background rather than one in property, and are expected to understand the operating Convertible Unsecured Loan Stock CULS dynamics of the occupiers.
Happy tenants means they are In 2004 we started to buy back our CULS.
The conversion trading successfully which means the centre is thriving.
price of 1.9448 is well below the current share price so 4 Capital & Regional we have had to pay a premium to redeem them.
It is worth Future prospects noting that the premium paid is written off through the The current year has started well.
We have experienced and Companys profit and loss account and reduces its taxable well incentivised management teams and the infrastructure profit.
We chose to reduce our capital by buying back CULS in place for continued organic growth.
This will allow us to rather than shares because it simplifies our capital structure.
produce attractive returns for both fund investors and C&R.
We have continued the repurchase programme after the year The longer-term outlook is more difficult to predict, but end, and have now bought approximately half the CULS issued.
we remain confident that our business model will help us outperform.
Market overview Current market conditions remain good despite the reported slowdown in consumer demand.
There continues to be strong demand from investors looking for ways of Martin Barber Xavier Pullen finding suitable property exposure and we believe that Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive there is room for further reductions in investment yields, particularly in the leisure sector.
