Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2004 10 Chief Executives review I am delighted to announce a strong set of results from the Chrysalis Group for the financial year ended 31st August 2004.
Richard Huntingford, Chief Executive MARGINS IMPROVE AT LASGO CHRYSALIS RADIO OUTPERFORMS INDUSTRY MUSIC PUBLISHING INCREASES NPS BY 8% LAUNCH OF CHRYSALIS MOBILE Overview revenues increased by 19.7% to and were also at odds with the substantial I am delighted to announce a strong set 61.4 million 2003: 51.4 million.
internal audience research that we conduct of results from the Chrysalis Group for the on a weekly basis.
The Quarter 3 2004 This substantial revenue outperformance financial year ended 31st August 2004, Rajars show that Heart 106.2 remains the has been driven, primarily, by the double with the Group delivering a near fourfold most listened to London commercial digit uplift in yield that we have secured increase in total operating profits on a likestation for the 35-44 year olds a core during the 2004 financial year created for-like basis to reach 8.3 million 2003: demographic for advertisers and is in both from increased demand across our 1.8 million.
The two major operating overall audience size by some margin networks as well as improvements in divisions, Radio and Music, have reached the only station able to challenge the pricing and inventory management.
The record levels of profitability with Radio current commercial market leader.
Heart significant share of commercial listening posting significant EBITA growth of 48.2% has recently undergone a brand refresh and that our stations enjoy within all of our to 14.0 million 2003: 9.4 million and is currently running heavyweight television markets has stimulated this increased Music growing EBITA by 20.0% to and outdoor campaigns in both London demand, as we have been able to position 4.6 million 2003: 3.8 million.
We feel confident that ourselves increasingly as a core buy on the performance at the Books division has we can resume growth in audiences over many advertisers schedules.
Our focused, been disappointing, the excellent results the course of future Rajar surveys.
brand-led approach, which allows us from Radio and Music clearly demonstrate consistently to deliver targeted 100.7 Heart FM in the West Midlands that we are continuing to deliver on our demographics to sophisticated media continues to dominate its market with a promise of outperforming our peer group buyers, also adds to the attractiveness 20.6% share of all commercial listening in our two core business areas.
in the region, and now has more weekly Radio listeners in its area than any other station, Heart and Galaxy Chrysalis Radio has produced another year either commercial or BBC.
Heart has performed extremely well of significant industry outperformance, throughout the 2004 financial year, Galaxy has also had a strong year, with with revenues increasing by 20.9% to producing revenue growth of 22.1%, revenues increasing by 14.6%, in spite of 67.7 million 2003: 56.0 million and in spite of an audience decline of 2% an audience decline of 3% in the period.
EBITA growing by 48.2% to a record in the corresponding period.
Galaxy has maintained its hold on its 14.0 million 2003: 9.4 million.
This youth market, currently reaching almost increase in turnover has been achieved Operationally it has been an excellent year 2.5 million listeners across the UK, 65% against a back-drop of industry revenue for Heart 106.2, with the station achieving of them under 30, and generating 35% growth of 8.6% and flat audiences at commercial No.
1 status in the Quarter 3 more listening hours than its nearest rival.
Excluding the losses 2003 Rajar survey and coming close to Galaxy continues to be the commercial incurred at LBC and our investment in repeating this achievement two surveys market leader in terms of both reach and digital, EBITA for analogue music radio later.
Consequently, the recent Quarter 3 hours in its two largest markets, Yorkshire grew by over 31% to reach 20.3 million 2004 Rajar audience figures for the station and the Northeast.
2003: 15.5 million and corresponding were both unexpected and disappointing AR6451 Chrysalis R&A 2004 10 12 2004 Proof 9 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Chief Executives review 11 The excellent results from radio and music clearly demonstrate that we are continuing to deliver on our promise of outperforming our peer group in our two core business areas.
This additional has seen its revenues grow by over 40% listening increases our total group listening 1 Classic FM 6,145 in the year under review, with audiences hours by over 8%.
Rajar audience 2 Total Heart UK 2,910 increasing by 9%.
Revenue gains have also measurement of our brands across the UK, 3 Total Magic 2,815 been driven by an increase in yields as we shows that the Heart UK Network both 4 Total Virgin 2,598 deliver further improvements in the analogue and digital is the No.
2 ranked 5 Total Kiss 2,555 demographics we are able to offer commercial radio brand across the country 6 Galaxy Network UK 2,495 advertisers.
Since the launch of the talk beating two of the three national 7 talkSPORT 2,182 format on the FM frequency in January analogue stations.
The latest Rajar survey 8 Total Jazz Network UK 1,578 2003, reach amongst the 35-54 year old also showed the Galaxy UK Network 9 Kerrang!
1,017 listener base has grown by a dramatic performing well.
This excellent result for 10 The Hits 880 84%.
In addition to this, the number of our two key networks on a national basis ABC1 listeners for LBC 97.3 now stands at endorses our strategy for digital: we Q3 2004 Hours 000s 72.5% of the audience, up from 57.3% at believe our strong brands are perfectly 1 Classic FM 44,344 the time of the frequency switch.
We suited to roll out over our digital footprint, 2 Total Heart UK 21,037 continue to enhance the programming of offering advertisers familiar and compelling 3 Total Magic 20,411 the station and are confident that, with the demographics for almost 30 million adults 4 Galaxy Network UK 18,436 marketing investment already budgeted for across the key metropolitan markets via 5 talkSPORT 18,067 this current year, LBC is becoming an DAB digital carriage and across the whole 6 Total Virgin 16,363 increasingly attractive proposition to both of the UK population via Sky Cable Internet 7 Total Kiss 13,691 listeners and the advertising community.
We are currently working on 8 Total Jazz Network UK 8,499 monetising the extra hours generated by Digital Radio 9 Total LBC UK 6,334 this additional listening.
Chrysalis Radios investment in digital 10 Kerrang!
4,846 broadcasting has increased over the period The uptake of digital listening across the Source: Rajar to 2.8 million 2003: 2.1 million which UK continues to be encouraging and the is accounted for by the full year costs of recent report by the industry body, the the digital licences which came on-air late DRDB, predicts that 29% of UK homes in the 2003 financial year, together with the will possess at least one digital radio by incremental cost incurred for Rajar audience 2008 this equates to 13 million sets, up measurement.
Our investment in digital from an estimated one million devices at activities is expected to peak at around the end of 2004.
3 million in the current financial year.
Music Digital listening is becoming increasingly Chrysalis Music has delivered a year of important to Chrysalis Radio.
The latest excellent growth in profits with EBITA Rajar survey showed that, by measuring for the division growing by 20.0% to our radio stations nationally, as well as 4.6 million 2003: 3.8 million, on within their existing analogue transmission revenues of 70.6 million 2003: areas, we now attract 689,000 incremental 71.4 million.
The significant uplift in listeners, generating an additional operating margins has been driven by 3.8 million listening hours, via transmission success at our overseas music publishing AR6451 Chrysalis R&A 2004 10 12 2004 Proof 9 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Chief Executives review 13 Net Publishers Share increases by 8% to 10 million in 2004 Mechanical NPS NPS m Performance Split NPS % 12 Synchronisation 80 10 60 8 6 40 4 20 2 0 0 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 operations, justifying our overseas investment Music Publishing Chrysalis catalogue titles have been used strategy of the past few years, together Chrysalis Music Publishing has had another in films, advertisements and video games with the beneficial changes to product mix excellent year, producing Net Publishers across all our territories.
High profile that continue to be made at Lasgo Chrysalis.
Share NPS, the key metric for the synchronisations during the year have industry, of 10.01 million 2003: 9.27 included the renewals of Alabama 3s Our status as a leading independent, million, equating to year-on-year growth Woke Up This Morning for The operating within three distinct areas of of almost 8%.
The quality of these earnings Sopranos opening title track and the the music industry, is strengthening the remains high: there has been a strong, Dandy Warhols Bohemian Like You competitive advantages Chrysalis Music balanced performance from both the for Vodafone, and more recently Molokos has within its marketplace.
The tremendous front and back catalogue, with the top 10 The Time Is Now by Sky Sports for changes that continue to fide-stabilise many earners for the year including contributions the next two seasons Premiership of the major operators within the music from OutKast, David Bowie, Blondie, David Football coverage.
industry are opening up numerous Gray and the Crusaders catalogue, which opportunities for the independent sector.
The business of music publishing continues we acquired in 2003.
Within the UK Our publishing and recording arms are to demonstrate that it is one of the most market, Chrysalis Music Publishing has testament to this with recent high profile defensive areas of the music industry, with maintained its status as the UKs leading signings such as Morrissey and Velvet publishers able to earn revenues from all independent music publisher over the Revolver to music publishing and Morcheeba areas of music consumption including past three quarters, with a market share to The Echo Label, illustrating how attractive new products ranging from the latest of 13.0% in the most recent survey.
Our a proven, well-funded independent can ringtone to karaoke to video games.
overseas territories have increased their be to major international talent.
contribution to the NPS, with the majority Music Recording In addition to the organic growth strategy of start-up overseas operations now moving The Echo Label spent much of the 2004 which we will continue to pursue within into profit.
financial year developing a number of our publishing, recording and distribution albums for release in 2005.
This exciting The three principal revenue streams arms, Chrysalis Music is exploring two new release schedule includes a new Feeder contributing to our overall NPS have initiatives in the US market to further album in January, Pushing the Senses, performed well.
Both mechanical and exploit these changes in the music industry.
which follows on from their platinum performance revenues in particular have Firstly, The Echo Label has launched a selling album Comfort in Sound.
New been boosted by the success of OutKast, virtual record label sitting alongside our signing, Morcheeba, who have sold over whose album, Speakerboxxx The Love US publishing company to take advantage five million albums during their career, will Below, has now sold approaching seven of the huge pool of artist talent which release their first album on The Echo Label million albums worldwide.
However, not all we have within our publishing and in Spring 2005.
US artist, Ray LaMontagne, revenue generated by this OutKast album recording arms who have been unable to another recent signing to The Echo Label, has been recognised in the 2004 NPS get released in the major-dominated US has just released his first album Trouble, owing to the timing of royalty accounting.
This initiative is structured on a for which we have high hopes.
Other notable contributors to both low-cost and low-risk basis.
Secondly, we mechanical and performance income have Lasgo Chrysalis are reviewing how we might participate been the success of four tracks on Keanes Once again Lasgo Chrysalis, our wholesale in revenue streams such as touring, multi-platinum album Hopes and Fears distribution company, has had a strong merchandising and sponsorship, which are and the single Mad World written by year, growing EBITA by almost 14% on currently unavailable to us under our rights Roland Orzabal of Tears for Fears which slightly reduced sales.
This is an excellent ownership business model.
1 in the UK and performance given the difficult trading a major hit in other territories.
environment, which has led to the financial AR6451 Chrysalis R&A 2004 10 12 2004 Proof 9 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2004 14 Chief Executives review collapse of a number of competing been encouraging within the first few a more cautious approach to revenue distribution companies within the industry.
growth for the remainder of the year and Lasgos success can be attributed to the are budgeting for this to be within the Chrysalis Mobile is currently running diversification strategy which it has continued 4%5% range.
services on our own music radio stations, to pursue, with almost 50% of sales in Heart and Galaxy, and in addition to this Chrysalis Music the 2004 financial year being generated provides white label mobile interactive and We are confident that Chrysalis Music by higher margin non-audio product, in ringtone services on behalf of Hit 40, Real should continue to perform well throughout particular DVD and Books.
Chrysalis Music Publishing has had Books other alliances of this nature will arise in an encouraging start to the 2005 financial The Chrysalis Books division has generated the course of the current financial year.
year, with the visibility afforded by the an EBITA loss of 2.1 million 2003: success of OutKast as well as recent new More recently, the division has developed 3.6 million, as restated, with revenues signings and another excellent performance music2mobile, an exciting range of reduced year-on-year to 27.4 million from the synchronisation division.
This, branded content which is available for 2003: 30.7 million.
Revenues were coupled with the strong release schedule consumers to purchase in physical form or impacted by ongoing weakness in the from The Echo Label, and continuing through online channels.
The Carphone US dollar leading to a difficult co-edition good trading at Lasgo Chrysalis, leaves Warehouse has been the first major retailer market as well as a poor trading us confident that we will exceed our to offer music2mobile physical product performance in the UK owing to a lack of expectations for the full year.
After a successful trial stand-out titles.
As a result, while our more phase, they will be rolling out the product Chrysalis Books focused publishing programme generated through their network in the run up to The quality of the front list at Chrysalis much improved margins at a trading level, Christmas.
We believe this product should Books for the 2005 financial year has been insufficient progress was made during the have great appeal to a number of other significantly improved on prior years.
year at reducing stock levels, necessitating high street retailers, keen to participate in A large number of our books are being further year-end stock provisions.
the changing ways in which the consumer featured in Christmas promotions for Action continues to be taken to improve buys music.
major retailers and there is an extremely the operating performance of the division encouraging showing from a number We are confident that our independent and significant progress has been made of titles, such as The Story of Film, Jack music heritage and our more recent in the quality of books being published.
Vettriano and The Official Phantom of success in building strong, consumer-facing In addition to this, channels to market in the Opera Companion, which have all brands through our radio stations puts us the main UK and US territories have been re-printed prior to Christmas.
in an excellent position to create a profitable improved, the foreign language rights business in the fast evolving digital music In summary, we anticipate another year team has extended their reach and a download space.
of sustained progress for the Chrysalis global export network has now been put Group.
The successful execution of our in place.
These measures, coupled with Trading outlook ongoing corporate strategy has given us a reduced but more focused publishing Chrysalis Radio significant competitive advantages within programme, have enabled us to achieve Despite some initially encouraging signs the radio and music marketplaces which higher unit sales and margins per book for the radio advertising industry as we we look forward to exploiting for published than was previously the case.
entered the autumn trading period, the maximum shareholder gain.
first quarter has seen some marked Mobile volatility in terms of month-by-month In March 2004 we announced the launch performance with specific softness in the of Chrysalis Mobile.
The division has national marketplace.
As a consequence, posted an EBITA start-up loss of we estimate that revenue growth for the 0.3 million for the financial year ending radio industry as a whole may be at best 31st August 2004, in line with forecasts flat for the quarter.
made at the time of the launch.
Richard Huntingford Chrysalis Radios October performance Chrysalis Mobile was created to take Chief Executive suffered particularly from this weakness, advantage of the increasing demand for 13th December 2004 and despite a return to positive growth music content over mobile devices.
This for November, we anticipate flat revenue market is currently centered around mono growth for the first quarter of the 2005 and polyphonic ringtones but is rapidly financial year, compared to a strong evolving towards real tones and in due comparative period last year.
Given this course full song downloads.
In both cases weaker than expected start to the year, content licensing relationships are critical coupled with the recent disappointing and fit directly with Chrysaliss core skills Rajar figures, we believe it prudent to take and heritage.
Progress at the division has AR6451 Chrysalis R&A 2004 10 12 2004 Proof 9
