OUR PERFORMANCE Over the last two years, we have continued into development, continue to depress the Great Portland Estates to reposition the Groups portfolio for valuation result as we allow income to growth, sold 279 million of non-core erode enabling us to gain vacant possession.
has been completely properties, added significant value through Once redeveloped, these properties enhanced restructured the our reinvigorated asset management, growth prospects will more than compensate balance sheet is clean started a development programme for for their recent underperformance.
Excluding and transparent, our delivery into an improving market, these properties, the portfolio increased properties are wellrestructured our debt book and in value by 4% in the second half and by significantly strengthened our teams.
Second, our asset positioned for a management activity during the year has recovery and our asset The markets in which we operate have, delivered real value for shareholders.
and development we believe, now turned the corner.
For the Our London void rate has been maintained management activities best quality space, both rental and capital at under 2%, comparing favourably to that are bearing fruit values have stopped falling and we are in the Capital as a whole at approximately now seeing selective growth in rents in the 13%.
In addition, through lease West End market.
Although difficult leasing restructurings carried out at four of our conditions continued throughout last year, major holdings during the year, property business sentiment has improved markedly cash flows were materially strengthened, since the New Year.
Almost all recent enhancing both these properties surveys suggest that companies in the valuations and their prospects.
Capital are increasing their workforce after several years of retrenchment, particularly Although the sales programme was largely in the Financial and Business Services completed during the previous year, this sector.
We estimate that active year we took the opportunity to dispose requirements from occupiers for new office selectively of assets which were non-core, space in central London are almost 50% or where value had been added.
Sales higher than they were twelve months ago.
during the year totalled 61.7 million against their March 2003 book value This turnaround is clearly illustrated by the of 63.7 million.
As at 31 March 2004, improvement in our valuation performance 98% of the portfolio was in London, during the second half.
In the first half, with only two properties outside.
capital values and rents declined by 3.8% and 4.5% respectively, as the supply of We have continued the process of space continued to outweigh the demand restructuring our debt book.
By contrast, since September 2003 year end, we repurchased the 24 million, our capital values have appreciated by 11.1875% Debenture 2009 2014 at a cost 2.5% whilst rental values have remained of 32.9 million.
In so doing, we released static.
For the year as a whole, the valuation 64.7 million of properties from charge, was down by 1.4%.
However, two important including a number which we wish to factors are worth highlighting here.
First, redevelop, whilst lowering our weighted a number of our properties, shortly to average cost of debt from 6.7% to 6.5%.
transfer from the investment portfolio CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 8 GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES Annual Report 2004 OUR PERFORMANCE I commented this time last year that much Portfolio Review of our attention would be focused on new Over the past five years, Great Portland business as we sought to replenish the Estates has been transformed from a portfolio with opportunities for real value geographically diverse property investment creation.
During the year, we appraised a group into a specialist central London significant number of transactions and spent investor and developer.
I highlighted in November, and it remains the case today, that vendors Central to our property strategy are three have been unwilling to sell short leased themes: first, the active management properties, to which we could apply our of our income and voids, creating value asset management and development skills, through, for example, lease restructuring: at realistic prices.
The vast majority of last second, the upgrading of our assets years high investment turnover was of through high quality refurbishment and assets with long, dry income streams sold redevelopment: and third, the recycling to institutional or private buyers, often taking of our capital from assets where value a relative yield view.
This is not our game has been added to ones which provide and we have resolutely avoided playing it.
Where we have identified value, we have bought, and we are optimistic about the Management of Income and Voids prospects at both Metropolis House, We continue to manage our lease expiries Tottenham Court Road, W1 acquired in and voids proactively, retaining more June 2003 where we are on site developing, than 50% of our tenants at lease expiry, and at 16 21 Sackville Street, W1 acquired up from one third the previous year.
During in March 2004 where we will carry out a the year, we carried out 40 new lettings, comprehensive refurbishment next year.
adding 4.5 million in rent, whilst 34 rent reviews delivered an increase of 1.0 million Financial Restructuring representing an uplift of 27%.
1.3 million In June 2003 I emphasised that we of rent was lost at lease expiry and we took continually review our capital requirements.
back 20 leases during the year, accounting Whilst we will continue to search for for 4.2 million.
Therefore, the total acquisition opportunities, we do so into an movement in rent across the portfolio, improving market, with low balance sheet not accounted for by sales or purchases, gearing 30% at the year end and, some was close to zero.
320 million of balance sheet firepower.
The Board has concluded that some of We have worked hard through two years this capital is surplus to our current of difficult leasing conditions to emerge requirements and that, given the state of with our void level substantially unchanged, the market and the low level of our gearing, and significantly beneath that of the London shareholders interests would be best market as a whole of 13%.
As at 31 March served through a return of 50p per share.
2004, 2.6% of the portfolio was void against In giving back approximately 100 million, 3.0% at the same time last year.
Our void we believe we have struck the right balance rate in central London stands at 1.6% between, on the one hand, preserving our 1.9% at March 2003.
A further 7.6% ability to transact new opportunities and of the portfolio by rental value is under deliver our development programme refurbishment, with the majority being at and, on the other, raising gearing 60% Metropolis House, Tottenham Court Road, pro forma in order to drive prospective W1 and Barnards Inn, Fetter Lane, EC4.
NAV performance and hence returns to shareholders.
Toby Courtauld Chief Executive GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES Annual Report 2004 9 OUR PERFORMANCE Of the 23 lettings achieved in the West Progression of Development Proposals End during the year, two stand out.
First, The West End, in particular, is a market at Bond Street House, New Bond Street, characterised by a lack of good sized, W1, we gained planning permission to clear, floorplates.
This is particularly the convert the basement, ground and first case in our 1 million sq ft North of Oxford floor space into a 10,900 sq ft flagship Street portfolio, where we have a clear store, with a scheduled start in 2006. ambition to introduce new, high quality Through negotiations with existing tenant space timed to coincide with a recovery Mappin & Webb, we entered into a new in tenant demand over the next few years.
25 year lease over an enlarged area at our targeted, post-redevelopment, rent but Across the West End we have six without incurring any capital expenditure, refurbishment or redevelopment projects and some three years earlier than under at varying stages of development with a the redevelopment proposal.
Second, at completed value approaching 225 million 95 New Cavendish Street, W1, our tenant and delivering an increase in area from exercised an option to break its lease on 340,000 sq ft to 480,000 sq ft. 29 September 2003.
Within eight weeks of the tenant vacating, we achieved a We completed the acquisition of our major letting of the entire 21,000 sq ft building redevelopment opportunity at Metropolis to the construction consultant, Gleeds, House, Tottenham Court Road in June on a 15 year lease with a tenants option 2003, concluded the strip-out contract in to break at the tenth year.
August and obtained an improved planning permission in October.
The main contract, In the City, lease restructurings were which commenced in November, is on achieved in three transactions at budget and completion of the 110,000 sq ft Buchanan House, Holborn, EC4 and at refurbishment is scheduled for the first Barnards Inn, Fetter Lane, EC4, in both half of 2005.
Since the year end, we have cases materially strengthening the acquired a long leasehold interest from the properties cash flow and, hence, valuation.
Spirit Group, who operated a public house At Buchanan House, six leases to two on the north western corner of the site.
tenants, expiring between December 2003 This purchase will enable us to extend and and 2006, were simultaneously regeared improve the basement and ground floor to expire in 2008, thereby aligning all retail offer as well as the first floor office leases in the building and allowing us to layout, and a further planning application redevelop in 2008.
At Barnards Inn, our has been submitted.
principal occupier, Interoute Finance Plc, had ceased paying rent due to financial difficulties.
We negotiated a surrender of its lease over 85,000 sq ft, receiving more than 80% of the rent due until its break option in 2010.
Simultaneously, we let 55,000 sq ft to Marriott, the international hotel group, on a new 15 year lease with a tenants option to determine at year 10 subject to a penalty of two and a half years rent.
The remaining 30,000 sq ft is being refurbished and is due to be completed in September this year.
1 2 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED 10 GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES Annual Report 2004 OUR PERFORMANCE During the year planning applications We continue to see for sale few During the year lease were submitted for three further major appropriately priced properties which redevelopments.
At 190 Great Portland require refurbishment or redevelopment.
restructurings were Street, W1, we intend to commence our As a result, our acquisition activity during achieved at Barnards 100,000 sq ft office, retail and showroom the year has been limited as we chose to Inn, Fetter Lane and scheme in early 2005, and demolition is preserve our firepower rather than invest Buchanan House, scheduled to start on our headquarters at what we perceived to be unjustifiable Holborn, in both cases building at Knighton House, Mortimer levels.
In addition to Metropolis House, we Street, W1 at the end of 2005.
In both made one further significant purchase strengthening the cases, planning discussions are at an during the year, buying a freehold properties cash flow advanced stage.
At our Titchmor site on refurbishment opportunity at 16 21 Sackville and hence valuation the junction of Mortimer Street and Great Street, W1, from the owner occupier, Titchfield Street, W1, our proposals were Austin Reed Plc, for 10.7 million.
recently submitted to Westminster City Council for a high quality 135,000 sq ft Austin Reed has leased back the ground redevelopment close to Oxford Circus.
floor retail unit for 25 years and the four office floors of 16,800 sq ft, until February Refurbishment proposals are in the design 2005.
We intend to carry out a high quality stage at our recent acquisition in Sackville refurbishment to the offices with completion Street and for the upper office floors at anticipated during 2007.
Also during Bond Street House.
the year we acquired a long leasehold interest at 88 Great Portland Street, W1 Disposals and Acquisitions for 1 million, completing our site assembly The strength of investor demand that we for a major future redevelopment of 78 92 reported in June 2003 has been maintained Great Portland Street.
throughout the year, and we have capitalised on this situation to sell mature assets in Valuation Mayfair, Covent Garden and Holborn.
This time last year we predicted that office rental values in the West End had broadly In the West End, 26.8 million of sales corrected, whilst we could expect further were executed during the period including downward pressure in the City and 26a b c Albemarle Street, W1 and Drury Holborn.
Across the Group, our rental House, 34 43 Russell Street, WC1.
The two values declined by 5% during the year, office buildings were 17% overrented, had although the valuation impact of this weighted average unexpired lease terms of reduction was limited, due in large part to 8 years and were sold for an aggregate net the value enhancing asset management initial yield to the purchaser of 7.1%, transactions we concluded during the year.
in line with our March 2003 book value.
In the City, we sold 1 6 Dyers Buildings, EC1, for a price of 7.2 million, reflecting a net initial yield to the purchaser of 5.3% and slightly ahead of our March 2003 valuation.
Outside London, we sold Costain House, an office building in Maidenhead, and our leisure development, Sol Central, in Northampton, for an aggregate price of 27.6 million, some 7% beneath their March 2003 valuations.
3 4 1 Metropolis House, 39 45 Tottenham Court Road, W1 under redevelopment 2 16 21 Sackville Street, W1 leased back to Austin Reed, refurbishment planned for 2005 3 95 New Cavendish Street, W1 21,000 sq ft let to Gleeds on a 15 year lease 4 Barnards Inn, 86 Fetter Lane, EC4 55,000 sq ft let to Marriott on a 15 year lease with floors four to six under refurbishment GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES Annual Report 2004 11 OUR PERFORMANCE The external valuation, carried out by Our West End portfolio at 31 March 2004 CB Richard Ellis, registered a like-for-like was valued at 535.2 million, comprising decline of 10.4 million or 1.4% over the 456.4 million of the investment portfolio 12 months but an increase during the and 78.8 million of properties approaching second half of 17.8 million or 2.5%.
development, and representing 72% of the total portfolio.
On a like-for-like basis it At 31 March 2004, the portfolios value of declined in value by 1.0% over the year, but 744.6 million reflected a net initial yield it increased in value by 2.7% during the of 6.2%, some 6 basis points lower than second half.
335.7 million was located at the same time last year, due to a slight north of Oxford Street, which declined hardening of the equivalent yield and the by 4.6% almost all of which was during granting of rent-free periods under new the first half, due largely to valuation leasing arrangements.
Overall, the Groups reductions at 190 Great Portland Street, investment portfolio was overrented to the Knighton House and Titchmor, where tune of 3.7 million 6.9%, up from 1.0 we are allowing leases to run off to million this time last year.
was principally due to declining ERVs 2.3 million and the crystallisation of The rest of the West End portfolio was reversions through the settlement of valued at 199.5 million, registering a likerent reviews generating an uplift of for-like increase in value over the year of 1.0 million during the year.
6.0% 8.0% in the second half, due in large part to our asset management activity at West End and Covent Garden Bond Street House.
At March 2004, total availability in the West End office market stood at Average rents in our office portfolio north approximately 10 million sq ft or 11% of the of Oxford Street were 30 per sq ft, up stock, and almost exactly in line with the from 29 per sq ft last year, whilst rental figure in March last year.
Take up in 2003 values declined from 29 to 28 per sq ft. was less than in 2002, at 3.9 million sq ft, In the rest of the West End portfolio, office and in line with a long-term average of rents declined from 38 to 36 per sq ft, just under 4 million sq ft.
However, active whilst rental values remained constant demand from occupiers for space in the at 33 per sq ft. West End was at a similar level in March to that a year earlier.
We expect take up Retail rental values in the West End to increase this year and, with availability remained stable for the second year therefore likely to fall, we believe that running, with the exception of New Bond there should be a return to rental growth Street, which registered an increase of for the first time in three years.
Average rents passing for our West End retail properties, excluding those north of Oxford Street, rose from 76 to 78 per sq ft with rental values rising from 77 to 82 per sq ft, whilst those north of Oxford Street remained constant at 21 per sq ft. 1 2 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED 12 GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES Annual Report 2004 OUR PERFORMANCE City and Holborn Outlook As predicted last year, the City market has Great Portland Estates has been continued to see an increase in the amount completely restructured: the liability side of of space available to let with a corresponding the balance sheet is clean and transparent: downward pressure on rents.
We believe our property assets are well positioned for that the vacancy rate has now peaked at a recovery in the central London market: around 15% of total stock.
Half of this is our asset and development management Grade A office accommodation but, with activities are beginning to bear fruit across the limited development pipeline over the the portfolio: and our rebuilt teams are next three years, and an expected increase working well together.
in take up, we believe rents will stabilise during 2004.
The Company has a clear, well communicated strategy and, following Our City and Holborn portfolio was valued the return of cash, will have a more at 174.3 million in March 2004 registering appropriate structure for this point in the a like-for-like fall in value over the year of property cycle.
During the second half, the valuation in central London showing real signs of increased by 1.5%, due mainly to the positive recovery, I look forward to building on this effect of lease restructuring activity at progress further.
Barnards Inn 9% growth since September 2003 and at Buchanan House 10% growth since September 2003.
Average rents in our City office portfolio were 35 per sq ft in March 2004 as against 32 per sq ft at the same time last year, whilst average rental values were Toby Courtauld down from 30 last time to 28 per sq ft. Chief Executive 3 4 1 190 Great Portland Street, W1 due for redevelopment in 2005 2 Kent House, 14 17 Market Place, W1 the cornerstone of the Groups Market Place investment 3 80 Bishopsgate, EC2 let until 2011 4 Knighton House, 56 Mortimer Street, W1 due for redevelopment in 2006 GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES Annual Report 2004 13
