6 COBHAM PLC Chief Executives Review INTRODUCTION We continue to operate in a demanding and ever changing business environment.
2004 was challenging but successful for the Group.
Since 2000 we have increased our revenues by 415m Cobham performed robustly in and underlying earnings per share have grown by 31p.
With businesses extending over five 2004 with record order intake continents, Cobham has become a truly global company.
MARKET IN CONTEXT The aerospace and defence markets have continued to develop and grow during 2004.
In the military market the key priorities now include In the military market the Groups increased interoperability, rapid reaction, precision strike and information superiority.
These priorities products and services address key have driven technology insertion into systems and sub-systems for network enabling capability and for the development of unmanned aerial priorities which now include vehicles.
increased interoperability, rapid More traditional but equally important equipment such as air refuelling AR, antennas and life support systems have also shown reaction, precision strike and considerable growth.
Intelligence is key to defeating terrorism and information superiority.
The USA and NATO continue to invest in the development of capabilities for collecting, producing, ltering and communicating intelligence between space, air, land and sea operations.
In the commercial market, airline traffic has returned to levels seen in 2000, and 2005 is expected to see a further increase.
Our two major commercial customers, Airbus and Boeing, are forecasting higher levels of output for 2005 with further potential increases in 2006.
Three new commercial aircraft are on the horizon - Airbus A350, Boeing B787 and, potentially, the Bombardier C Series.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW Cobham performed robustly in 2004 with record order intake and strong revenue growth.
The fall in the dollar has slowed profit growth, but this has been partially offset by our currency hedging programme.
It has been a year of transition and investment in the Aerospace Systems Group.
Improved performances in air refuelling and auxiliary equipment and life support sectors have been ALLAN COOK overshadowed by poor operational performances in countermeasures and uid and air distribution sectors.
The loss of a major bid at our US countermeasures business in Milan, Tennessee ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 7 Light armoured tactical vehicles and ABRAMS main battle tanks currently deployed in Iraq with Cheltons intercom systems installed AN VIC 3 and LV2.
and continued technical challenges on the A380 fuel pump system were reached on 14 December 2004 for the second production tranche of 236 the major reasons for this reduction in operational performance.
The announcement brought a guarantee of production continuity through to 2013.
This is a major boost for Cobham as tranche 2 Chelton had another good year of organic growth.
performed strongly driven by increased opportunities in the defence market.
Margins reduced slightly due to the dilution effect of acquisitions.
In the eld of avionics, combat aircraft require ever higher data acquisition Order intake improved in antennas, avionics, microwave and law rates to support improved capabilities.
This will require further upgrades of enforcement and national security LENS product lines.
Requirements for new and existing aircraft in both Europe and the USA.
Chelton is well increased capability on many platforms will benefit Chelton.
Network placed to support this requirement as part of its network centric capability enabled capability opportunities are increasing caused by the programme.
requirement for faster, more secure data transfer.
The Group now has a strong worldwide presence in LENS including Flight Operations & Services had an excellent year, exceeding all its offshore and onshore surveillance and advanced multi-mode financial targets and winning important new business in the UK and communication systems.
This area of activity is expected to expand Australia.
profit margins have continued to improve and the Group is well signicantly in the years ahead.
placed to seek further growth opportunities.
In the last twelve months a number of significant In addition, the Groups products and services address the current military long-term contracts have been won or successfully renewed.
In February priorities of countries with the largest defence budgets.
In recent years the 2005 the UK Ministry of Defence announced that the AirTanker Group has greatly increased its industrial presence in the USA and has consortium, in which the Group is a shareholder, had been awarded continued to invest in research and development and improved facilities Preferred Bidder status on the Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft FSTA in its US businesses.
The Group is actively involved in bilateral programme.
This is a significant milestone in this 27 year programme to government industry discussions to facilitate the secure interchange of provide the Royal Air Force with a new tanker transport service based on technologies between the USA and the UK.
The cost incurred on this Cobham wide programme is not attributable to Group companies are pursuing further opportunities worldwide and the any particular division, and is excluded from the segmental profits shown outlook for further success is encouraging.
PROSPECTS After more than a year of negotiations between the European manufacturers of the Euroghter Typhoon and the governments of the four Allan Cook Chief Executive partner nations, UK, Germany, Italy and Spain, agreement was nally 10 March 2005
