Chief Executives Review Our main focus is to return to strong profit and free cash flow growth.
We are also putting a renewed emphasis on how we use capital to drive faster growth in return on capital employed.
One of the things I learnt early in my career was Business and Industry growing by 5% and contracts in Liberia, Eritrea and Burundi and the importance of everyone in an organisation Vending by 3%.
This resulted in our operating now look after over 30,000 blue helmet sharing the same vision and a common set of margin improving by 40 basis points and profits peace-keepers.
values: and of the clear link between employee increasing to 190 million.
attitude, client and customer satisfaction UK An excellent performance in the Sports and revenue growth.
The commitment and New contract highlights included Bank of and Leisure sector and good performances dedication of our people has been a key America, the Medical Center of Central Georgia in the Business and Industry and Healthcare factor in driving like for like turnover growth and the Newark and Richmond Public Schools sectors resulted in like for like turnover growth and contract retention this year.
The underlying strength of the UK commercial and operational difficulties we business, allied to the continuing trends have faced there is a great deal to be proud Levy Restaurants continues to lead the market towards outsourcing in the Healthcare sector of, as you will see in our Review of Operations.
in offering fine dining at sports, leisure and gives me confidence in our ability to maintain I wanted, though, to highlight just some of the entertainment venues.
This year, working our operating margin.
achievements that illustrate how the strength with Wolfgang Puck Catering and Events, of our business model and the contribution of Levy secured a ten-year contract with The opening of a further eight Marks & Spencer our people leaves us well placed to deliver on Anschutz Entertainment Group for their Simply Food outlets on railway stations our objectives.
contributed to a strong performance in the Travel Concession sector.
Moto, our UK 7% growth in like for like turnover has been Continental Europe and rest of the world motorway service area brand, announced achieved through securing 1.2 billion of new Strong performances from Australia, China, plans to open six Marks & Spencer Simply business during the year and the maintenance Greece, Chile and United Arab Emirates Food outlets over the next eighteen months of an industry leading contract retention rate of contributed to like for like turnover growth in addition to the three already opened.
The emphasis we have placed in recent of 6%, despite difficult operating conditions years on both our sector focused sales and in France, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands.
Wellness and nutrition There is now account management and retention teams Operating margin improved by 60 basis considerably more focus than ever before on underpins this performance.
Japan continued to make significant what we eat.
As a global foodservice company progress during the year, achieving an we have an enormous influence on what our We continue to invest in our purchasing model, operating margin of 3%.
20 million customers a day choose to eat and particularly in Europe, in order to consolidate drink.
We have always been at the forefront and leverage our purchasing spend to drive We also signed a historic joint venture of developing innovative and high quality increased volumes and spend to give us better agreement with the Shanghai Railway nutritious offers that meet our customers commercial terms.
We also source back down Administration to provide station and lifestyle choices.
We dont have a formal the supply chain to procure from growers, on-board services on high-speed trains policy but a set of guiding principles so that producers and manufacturers rather than rely operating between Shanghai and Beijing.
we can respond flexibly to the differing needs on catering wholesalers, re-engineer product of our clients and customers.
This is not a specifications in support of our wellness and ESS Support Services Worldwide, which slick marketing response to these issues but a nutrition objectives and establish a robust operates in the Defence, Offshore and Remote philosophical approach to wellness that reflects logistics platform.
We are adopting a similar Site sector, had an excellent year.
The Preferred our chef-led culture and passion for good food.
strategy in North America and are focusing Supplier Agreement PSA signed with Chevron on rationalising product usage in high volume Texaco in 2002 saw new contracts being We are committed to: categories in our core sectors without any mobilised in Escravos and Lekki in Nigeria and loss of product quality or consistency.
in Malongo in Angola, underlining the strength providing a wide variety and choice of safe, of our integrated support services capability.
high quality, wholesome and enjoyable offers North America I am particularly pleased that enable our customers to eat healthily with the performance of the North American Increased levels of military and peace-keeping giving our customers access to information division this year.
Like for like turnover growth activity, particularly in the Middle East, also to help them choose the right thing to eat of 7% was as a result of a record level of new contributed to ESSs performance.
We have for their chosen lifestyle and improving our business, with strong growth in Education an enviable track record in supporting the UN employees understanding so that they can and Healthcare of 7% and 9% respectively, around the world and during 2004 we won better advise customers on their choice 06 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 07 Focus Leverage People Organic growth, free cash Rollout of our purchasing Commitment to employee flow generation, improved model to drive margin.
development, leading to return on capital employed.
better service and improved results.
Client and Wellness and Good into Customer Nutrition Great Contract retention, Playing our part in Never settling for the improved participation, encouraging healthier eating status quo, constantly repeat purchase and spend.
using fresh products that reflect seasonality opportunities, not only to attract the best Looking to the future I am confident in and which wherever possible are from people in the foodservice and hospitality the robustness of our business model and sustainable sources industries but also to provide a focus for our our ability to drive organic growth, free cash working with suppliers and manufacturers existing employees.
flow generation and improve return on capital to ensure that the ingredients we use and employed.
products we serve meet our objectives The important role that our people play working with other parts of the food chain, in delivering our business strategy was Despite the challenges we have faced this our clients and national governments to recognised when we were awarded three year, I am confident that, with our committed promote the benefits of healthy eating and awards at the HR Excellence Awards, including and motivated workforce, we will deliver our an active lifestyle the overall HR Contribution to Business objectives for 2005 and beyond.
Strategy and a Personnel Today award for Throughout the Review of Operations are Global HR Strategy.
examples of how these principles are being applied across the different markets in which Pursuing Client and Customer Satisfaction we operate.
Whilst I am delighted that our people believe that we are living our values it is also critical to Investing in Our People Our future success our success that our clients see the benefits.
will depend on attracting, developing and During 2005 we will be carrying out research Michael Bailey retaining the very best people.
Putting our amongst our clients to understand how well Chief Executive people at the heart of our business strategy is we are meeting their needs and what else a key area of focus for me and my team.
During we need to do to retain their business.
Our 2003 we completed a programme to ensure contract retention rate is already 95% but that everyone understood, shared and lived our we are constantly seeking ways to increase values.
client satisfaction to further improve on our performance.
We will also be measuring Over the last eighteen months we have customer satisfaction to better understand conducted one of the worlds largest ever how we can drive repeat purchases, increase confidential and anonymous employee surveys spend and improve participation rates.
to help us understand how well we are living these values and what else we need to do to increase employee satisfaction, reduce labour turnover and achieve our goal of being a preferred employer.
The responses we received reflect the views of 88% of our people across 53 countries in 23 languages.
Overall 72% feel proud to work for Compass.
They also believe that we have created a unique culture through which we live our values.
Our labour turnover is already one of the lowest in the industry, but we are not complacent, there is more to do if we are to achieve our goal of being a preferred employer.
Making sure that good people have real opportunities to develop their careers with us is key to retaining them, increasing job satisfaction and reducing labour turnover.
In March 2004 we launched our employment brand, Great people, real 06 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 07
