Chief Executives review UK We have intensified our focus on services In 2004, we saw 16.6% growth in our growth and are seeking to extend our Managed Services revenues as customers penetration of the small and medium-size continued to look to Computacenter to help them improve the quality and reduce business sector.
We are also focusing our the cost of IT infrastructure management.
efforts on further streamlining our sales This growth in Managed Services helped processes.
The recovery of our business to mitigate the impact of intense price in France and further growth in Germany competition in the technology supply market.
Consequently, whilst revenues remain core priorities.
in the UK declined slightly to 1.43 billion 2003: 1.46 billion, UK operating profit grew 4.2% to 64.4 million 2003: 61.8 million.
Our commitment to reduce costs and improve service helped persuade EDF Energy, in the second half of the year, to award us a major Managed Services contract.
Under the terms of the agreement, Computacenter will manage in excess of 10,000 desktops and laptops, as well as printers and servers, at more than 100 sites across the UK.
The contract is for three years, with an option to extend for a further two years.
Improved end-user service was the main focus of the award of a seven-year Managed Services contract, valued at 11 million, by South Lanarkshire Council.
Computacenter will be responsible for the entire lifecycle of the councils 5,000 desktops, laptops and printers, from procurement and installation to maintenance and disposal.
Other Managed Services successes included a five-year contract with Channel 4 Television, valued at 7 million, for a 06 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 full end-to-end Managed Service, and of changes to HPs reseller end-user the award of additional business worth pricing model.
This affected all similar 1.2 million per year on our current distributors, but did not impact either our 16.6% five-year contract with BAA.
leading position with the vendor nor our overall profitability.
Managed Services revenues We also saw increased interest in grew 16.6%, as customers our Infrastructure Integration services.
RDC, our recycling and remarketing Particularly notable was a large-scale arm, saw a 25% growth in throughput continued to look to roll-out for English Welsh and Scottish over the full year and recorded its best Computacenter to help Railways, including server and desktop ever half-year profit performance in them improve the quality product supply and configuration, project H1 2004.
This performance is partly management and installation.
Also notable attributable to organisations looking to and reduce the cost of IT was a project for the UK Governments improve their waste management to infrastructure management.
Prescription Pricing Authority, for which conform to European Waste Electrical and we deployed a consolidated enterprise Electronic Equipment WEEE directives.
storage, server and support solution.
Germany Our Technology Sourcing business Despite continuing price pressure we saw performed well during 2004.
Revenues increased demand for outsourcing services declined by 3.2%, although this is in the in the second half of the year.
As a result, context of continued price erosion in the and following a slightly disappointing first market in the order of 12-15%.
Product half, we recorded 7.7% growth in German margins overall were stable.
However, as H2 revenues compared to the same announced in November, the renegotiation period in 2003, resulting in full year of terms with HP, our principal trading revenue growth of 3.2%.
In local currency partner, is likely to have an adverse effect this growth was 10.1% in H2 and 5.2% on UK profits in 2005 in the order of for the year.
Full year profits showed a 10 million.
modest increase of 3.1% to 9.0 million 2003: 8.7 million.
Substantial new Technology Sourcing business in 2004 included an additional In June, and consistent with our 19 million of product supply for BT Retail, determination to share senior management arising out of our BT Managed Services expertise across the Group, we appointed contract, and a three-year contract with Colin Brown as CEO of Computacenter Geest, covering vendor management and Germany formerly CC CompuNet.
supply, with order placement via our Colin previously ran the highly successful Computacenter Connect webshop.
Revenues of CCD, our trade distribution Growing our services business and division, declined slightly as a direct result improving our ability to respond quickly Growing operational Reducing customer downtime Leading waste management effectiveness Managed Services contracts Customer concern over meeting In Germany, we restructured often include a requirement to legislative requirements on our sales organisation and monitor remotely and resolve electrical equipment waste centralised our project our customers IT systems gave RDC, our recycling and management and problems from our Hatfield re-marketing arm, its best ever consulting resources.
Computacenter plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Chief Executives review continued to changing customer requirements have extensive re-engineering, particularly in the and introduction of a new stock location been key priorities in Computacenter second half.
France recorded an operating management system.
To give us greater Germany.
This has led to a restructuring loss of 6.2 million 2003: 2.7 million on logistics flexibility and capacity we also 2 of our sales organisation to align it more revenues of 300.4 million 2003: 324.5 opened a new 3,000m warehouse with closely with the market, and the million.
Excluding amortisation of negative its own Goods-In and Goods-Out facility.
centralisation of our project management goodwill, the losses were broadly similar We see the improved performance of and consulting resources.
These initiatives to those of the previous year.
our maintenance services as critical to are similar to changes that have proved financial recovery in Computacenter successful in the UK.
These results reflect a substantial France.
This has led us to redesign our investment in a major transformation maintenance organisation, which now To reduce operational overheads and project, the full benefits of which are still reports directly to the Managing Director.
streamline our branch network, we to be realised.
Nevertheless, this level of We have also successfully introduced consolidated our premises in Essen performance is clearly unsatisfactory and into France our UK parts management and Cologne, creating a new sales significant changes were made during the system, which has been a key contributor headquarters in Ratingen, near Dusseldorf.
year to improve the business and the to the improved commercial performance effectiveness of the management team.
of the UKs maintenance business in There were a number of substantial New managers were recruited to run recent years.
Managed Services contract wins and our maintenance, finance and logistics extensions in 2004, which helped to functions, and in January 2005 we At the same time, we have substantially grow Computacenter Germanys Managed appointed Chris Webb, formerly improved our financial management Services contract base by 28.0% to responsible for UK sales and services and control disciplines.
These included the award delivery, as Managing Director of we succeeded in reducing accounts of a five-year Managed Services contract Computacenter France.
by FinanzIT Servicegesellschaft, a major IT supplier to the German Savings Banks We continue to focus on the three Computacenter France continued to Organisation, covering 4,500 users and core activities of product logistics, win significant new business.
A new valued at approximately 12 million.
In these customer, DIM, awarded us a Managed areas we are seeking to improve service Services contract, covering help desk, Other successes included the award of levels and delivery times, developing our asset management, desktop support a three-year Managed Services contract capability for large project roll-outs and and management of moves and changes.
by DaimlerChrysler Services, and a investing in training to ensure we have the We also won an extension on our contract for Managed Services and right mix of skills to support future growth.
Managed Services contract with Elior, Technology Sourcing with leading German covering an off-site help desk, insurance company R V Versicherung.
We Significant improvements in operational maintenance and network and server were also awarded a three-year Managed performance in logistics are already taking administration.
Other notable wins Services extension on our contract with place.
For example, a record 97% of included Infrastructure Integration BMW Group.
shipments to customers were made from consultancy and storage solutions our Roissy operations centre on the same for the French governments Agence France day as the orders were received by us.
Centrale des Organismes fide Scurit Our French business traded poorly The efficiency of the operations centre has Sociale, and a major Technology throughout 2004 and was subject to some benefited from a design reconfiguration Sourcing agreement with Biomrieux.
Encouraging personal Lowering customer risk Streamlining sales processes empowerment An increasing number of A new web-based sales We continued to focus on customers are testing their IT administration system was empowering our people, with solutions prior to deployment in developed and will be decisions made as close as the risk-free environment offered introduced in 2005. possible to the customer.
08 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Belgium and Luxembourg 1,300 people and is listed on the Suite SMTS v3.0 will begin to be In 2004 our BeLux operation became Austrian stock market.
deployed with UK Managed Services profitable for the first time, on the customers in H1 2005 and will ultimately strength of a 21.4% revenue growth We believe S&Ts local scale and depth be made available across the Group.
of resource will offer the best prospects SMTS v3.0 will significantly enhance our for our staff and our customers in Austria.
Managed Services offering, improving our Managed Services activities made a S&T will also become Computacenters ability to audit and manage our customers strong and growing contribution, led International Partner for service delivery technology assets on their behalf.
by ongoing contracts with SWIFT and in Austria and other countries across Group Deutsche Boerse Clearstream, Central and Eastern Europe, allowing We are also focusing our efforts on further as well as significant technology refresh Computacenter to offer an improved streamlining our sales processes, aided projects with customers such as Banksys, service to our international customers by the introduction of a new web-enabled Eli Lilly, and the King Baudouin Foundation.
The disposal is sales administration system in the UK, to expected to complete in March 2005. be implemented in H1 2005, and a major New customer wins included server revision of our Computacenter Connect deployment projects for BT Global During the year, we took the decision web-shop.
These new e-commerce Services and Campbell Foods.
Significant to invest no further funds in Biomni, our systems will begin to be implemented services projects were undertaken for the e-commerce joint venture.
At the year-end, across the rest of the Group towards the National Research Fund and the NATO our ownership interest in Biomni had fallen end of 2005.
to 41.7%, and subsequent to year-end reduced further, producing a non-operating In addition, it remains our strategy to We continue to look at opportunities exceptional net charge of 0.3 million.
establish leading positions in each of the for expanding our BeLux business.
In major European markets for IT products Luxembourg, following new legislation Business development and services.
To that end, the recovery introduced for the financial sector, we In the expectation of further pressure on of our business in France and further were licensed by the Ministry of Finance our product margins, we have intensified growth in Germany remain core priorities.
in March 2005 as a specialised IT our focus on services growth.
We are operator for banks and investment also seeking to extend our penetration funds, where we see significant of the small and medium-size business opportunities for growth.
We are confident that the competitive advantage we enjoy from Mike Norris Disposals our investment in high-quality logistics Chief Executive Officer Following a disappointing performance presents a significant opportunity for in 2004, we reached agreement in extending our product supply leadership early January 2005 to sell our Austrian in the corporate and public sector subsidiary, Computacenter GmbH, to markets to smaller organisations.
S&T System Integration & Technology Distribution AG.
S&T is a Central and The Group continues to invest in systems Eastern European regional market leader and processes to support business in IT, with revenues of approximately growth.
The next version of our 230 million.
The company employs integrated Services Management Tool Focusing on recovery in France Leveraging high We improved our financial quality logistics management and control Our investment presents us disciplines in France, reducing with opportunities for product accounts receivable days by 33%.
supply penetration of the small and medium-sized business sector.
Computacenter plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
