Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 3 Chief Executives review Overview Dairy Crest made good progress in the year ended 31 March 2004 growing profits and generating cash, as well as investing in both capital projects and increased levels of marketing to support our brands.
The spreads business is now our biggest profit centre and was the biggest contributor to profit growth in the year.
The full year impact of the contribution of the St Ivel Spreads brands, together with the success of our brand portfolio management, has delivered a strong performance.
Clover and Utterly Butterly have had good combined volume growth and have consolidated their market leading positions in dairy spreads.
The relaunch of St Ivel Gold is showing early signs of success with volume growth in the second half, the first period of growth in 12 years.
Drummond Hall, Chief Executive Our Severnside super dairy has been fully operational for over a year and, along with Chadwell Heath, is delivering improved efficiencies and customer service levels.
This has led to a better performance during the year by the liquid products business and has enabled us to win new business, which commenced after the year end.
We expect to increase our fresh milk volumes in the current year notwithstanding the loss of the ASDA milk business later this year.
The Yoplait brands had a particularly strong year with volumes up 23%.
However the retailer own brand yogurts and desserts sector continues to be challenging.
Our household and ingredients businesses both performed well.
As noted in the year-end trading update, the performance of the cheese business was below original expectations.
In particular, Cathedral City volumes were flat for the full year held back by a disappointing third quarter.
Subsequent management actions have improved performance with the brand showing good volume growth over the last 12 weeks compared to the same period last year.
Finally we have been successful in agreeing new contracts with most of our direct milk producers.
These contracts are designed to bring our suppliers closer to the market and encourage them to produce milk more in line with market demand.
Financial results Group turnover including our share of joint ventures turnover and the full year benefit of the St Ivel Spreads acquisition was up 3% at 1.36 billion 2003 1.33 billion.
Group operating profit, before operating exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, increased by 7% to 104.8 million 2003 97.5 million.
Adjusted profit before tax was up 11% at 85.1 million 2003 76.8 million and, after taking account of goodwill amortisation and 27.3 million of net exceptional charges associated with the restructuring of the Group, reported profit before tax was down 5% at 45.6 million 2003 47.8 million.
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 8% to 50.0 pence per share.
The Group Group net debt as at 31 March 2004 was 279.7 million, down from 345.2 million last is well placed year.
This reflects the Groups strong operational cash generation and also includes the proceeds from business and asset disposals.
for future Strategy for growth growth The Group is well placed for future growth, driven mainly by the ongoing development of branded and added value products and further productivity improvements.
We will also benefit from a reduction in financing costs thanks to the Groups strong cash generation.
These positive factors will be partially offset by the continued market decline in doorstep deliveries.
4 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 Chief Executives review continued The Group continues to review opportunities to invest our strong cashflow in appropriate acquisitions.
In addition we are exploring further ways of reducing the Groups exposure to commodity markets to improve the quality of earnings.
We have been active in this respect in the last year: In July 2003, we closed the butter and powder facility at Chard and consolidated these activities at Severnside.
The downsizing of the ingredients operation has significantly reduced our exposure to the commodity ingredients market and released working capital.
In September 2003, we sold our chilled juice business to Princes Limited for a cash consideration of 10.3 million.
This business was largely retailer own brand, with historically low returns on capital.
The dedication Investment programme and Over the last four years Dairy Crest has undertaken a major capital investment programme, amounting to almost 200 million, to provide the Group with industry leading facilities, commitment including the two super dairies at Severnside and Chadwell Heath.
The Davidstow cheese creamery, which is currently in the final stage of commissioning, represents the completion of our people of this programme.
The new creamery is the biggest and most modern cheese facility of its kind in Europe and will support future growth of branded and added value cheddar, lies at the particularly our market leading brand Cathedral City.
heart of In future, capital investment should be broadly in line with depreciation and will be principally aimed at delivering further productivity gains.
Dairy Crests Customer focus success We are continuing to invest in developing major customer relationships.
The focus of this activity has been the creation of long-term market development plans in each sector of our business, covering both Dairy Crests brands and retailer own label products.
These plans enable us to work jointly with customers to identify emerging opportunities and maximise sales from existing markets.
Our efforts in this area have been recognised recently by The Grocer Gold award for best own label supplier and Bronze award for brands.
People The dedication and commitment of our people lies at the heart of Dairy Crests success.
As an organisation we are committed to investing in our people through an ongoing programme of training and development at all levels.
This year we have expanded the management development course and, working with Birmingham University, we have also developed an operational excellence programme.
Outlook Trading at the start of the year is in line with expectations, including good growth by Cathedral City.
We believe that with strong brands, a well invested manufacturing base and good cash generation, Dairy Crest is well placed to meet the challenges of the future.
Drummond Hall, Chief Executive 26 May 2004
