CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGY REVIEW: BRANDS OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Investing in leading-edge reservation and revenue Strengthening our brands to drive customer management systems to maximise our global loyalty and extend operating premium over distribution.
Driving best practice across our brands to Developing our CRM capability to reach increase efficiencies and reduce costs.
specic customer segments and drive higher response rates from marketing spend.
It is now more than a year since I joined fide Vere, and six months since I presented the Groups new strategy.
We have achieved a lot in this time, laying the foundations that will underpin the achievement of our clear financial target of a 10% return on capital employed by the end of the 2006 07 financial year.
Delivery of this target will be driven by the four key strands of our strategy: Leveraging our strong brands, implementing operational excellence, accelerating Village growth and improving fide Vere returns.
6 I fide VERE GROUP PLC I CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGY REVIEW TARGETING 10% RETURNS BY 2006 07 VILLAGE GROWTH fide VERE RETURNS Accelerating the Village roll-out to four or five new Developing existing hotels where high returns sites per annum from 2006 07. are achievable through bedroom extensions, additional facilities and fide Vere Resort Ownership.
Increasing room stock at existing sites where demand is sufficient to drive high returns.
Growing the brand primarily through low-capital intensive routes, such as management contracts.
Disposing of hotels where acceptable returns cannot be achieved.
Leveraging our strong brands the aim of ensuring that we maximise the whether direct to hotel or via central We are now taking a far more scientific return from our marketing spend.
reservations, the internet or third parties.
approach to brand strategy and customer This means that more people will be At Village our enhanced insight into the relationship management CRM.
We able to book more of our hotels in more brand has already led to a re-evaluation have conducted in-depth research into ways, maximising booking opportunities of the Village site design, allowing us the factors driving customer preference by giving access to multiple channels.
In to save over 2 million on current build and have analysed the brand attributes addition, increased efficiency and reduced cost whilst at the same time improving that drive higher returns.
The result of transaction costs will build to a saving the unique customer experience.
This this is a clear understanding of what of 0.75 million per annum by 2006 07. has enabled the Group to pursue a more differentiates our brands from competitors, Village and the fide Vere Cavendish St. aggressive roll-out strategy.
allowing us to put customers at the heart Jamess will go live on this system in of our decision making and to channel December 2004, with the rest of fide Vere Implementing operational excellence investment and effort into higher yielding Hotels following in March 2005.
Several initiatives are being implemented initiatives.
to improve operational performance and We have appointed a talented new team efficiencies across the Group.
These will An early result of this analysis has been to develop our revenue management have increasing importance and add real a shift in fide Veres advertising strategy capability and will be piloting a new IT competitive advantage as we implement away from brand awareness campaigns, system early in 2005, with full roll-out our aggressive growth plans.
the precise benets of which are difficult across fide Vere Hotels and Village targeted to quantify, towards more targeted and by the end of the calendar year.
We believe More than 2 million is being invested that this has the potential to increase highly measurable call to action CRM in 2004 05 in a leading edge reservation RevPAR by 3-4% by 2006 07. marketing.
We have segmented our two system.
This will provide the Group with a million strong customer database to drive system delivering real time availability and progressively higher response rates with price parity across all booking channels, CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGY REVIEW I ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 I 7 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGY REVIEW: CONTINUED We have also completed the roll-out of health & tness membership sales processes accelerate the roll-out of Village to four or Delphi MPE, the leading conference and from Greens and Village.
This resulted five new sites per annum from 2006 07 at events booking system.
At present fide Vere in a 16% increase in like-for-like new returns signicantly ahead of our weighted has a significant level of frustrated demand membership sales in the second half of the average cost of capital.
and this system will enable us to refer year, with both brands starting the new Aside from new openings, with occupancy bookings across the Group, so capturing financial year ahead of expectations.
of around 80%, there is significant scope business that has previously been lost.
Accelerating Village growth to expand the bedroom count of the We are beginning to drive measurable The Groups most exciting growth existing estate by approximately 20% 260 synergy benets across the business by opportunity within the existing business is bedrooms through extensions to seven sharing best practice and leveraging our Village, where we see potential to increase Villages.
We are targeting annual savings of the estate from its existing 13 sites to more extension at Coventry was completed in 3 million by the end of 2006 07 through than 50 across the UK.
Development of the August 2004 and planning permission has improved purchasing, enhanced food new build model has identied substantial been received for extensions at Cardiff 32 and beverage margins, increased utility savings which will compensate for ination bedrooms and Bury 28 bedrooms, both of efficiency and reduced labour and other in construction industry costs over recent which have started on site.
Additionally, about 0.75 million years, thereby giving us confidence that are in preparation at four additional hotels of incremental profit is expected annually these growth targets can be achieved.
to deliver more than 150 further rooms.
The through better management of the Groups average targeted third year EBIT return of There are four new Village hotels golf operations, including the attraction of these projects is over 24%.
scheduled to open by March 2006, which additional corporate spend and increased will bring the total number of Villages asset and purchasing efficiency.
Three further sites are in various also consolidated the best aspects of the stages of negotiation.
It is our intention to 8 I fide VERE GROUP PLC I CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGY REVIEW Improving fide Vere returns There are also significant opportunities As previously stated, where returns ahead We believe that the performance of in our timeshare business, fide Vere Resort of our weighted average cost of capital fide Vere Hotels will benefit not only from Ownership DVRO.
Advance sales at cannot be reasonably achieved on existing better brand management and operational The Carrick, our new resort adjacent to assets we will dispose of these assets.
This excellence, but also from a general market fide Vere Cameron House, now total was demonstrated by the sale this year of recovery and specic strategic actions to 4.2 million.
Most of these sales have the fide Vere Bellhouse and the marketing improve returns.
been made to existing DVRO customers for sale of the fide Vere Dormy.
at almost nil marketing cost, providing Major developments at eight fide Vere clear evidence of the strength of the brand Hotels have been identied and are being and the appeal of the timeshare format.
These developments Construction of lodges at The Carrick has include over 170 additional bedrooms, started in earnest and we are investigating three new golf courses and three new spas.
the possibility of other resorts within the Construction of the new golf course at existing fide Vere Hotels portfolio.
CARL LEAVER fide Vere Cameron House has commenced Chief Executive and planning consent has been received The Group also aims to expand the for the spa, which will start on site over the fide Vere brand, primarily through low capital next few months.
A planning application intensive routes such as management has also been submitted for a 35 bedroom contracts.
We are currently in advanced extension at fide Vere Cameron House, a discussions on a number of sites in the 30 bedroom extension at fide Vere Dunston UK and Europe, where there is further Hall and a 32 bedroom extension at opportunity to leverage the strength of fide Vere University Arms.
the brand within the golf resort market.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGY REVIEW I ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 I 9
