10 chief executive officers report The past financial year has been one of substantial progress for Dimension Data, the highlights of which are strong growth in revenues, a return to operating profitability and an excellent performance from our solutions lines of business.
The implementation of our growth including the US, Australia, Germany and strategies, including our investment in South Africa.
Revenues in the core solutions and services, as well as network integration business grew by 7.9% rationalisations and management changes, coincided with an upturn in market We have continued to evolve and refine conditions, resulting in pleasing progress in our complementary solutions offerings and a number of areas.
We grew revenues are now clearly focused on the following strongly, our gross margin improved, and high-growth lines of business: years.
Sales performance has also effective cost controls and benefits ofConvergence solutions benefited from a greater external focus scale drove a return to operatingSecurity solutions and our strategy of differentiation around profitability and a steady improvement inData centre and storage solutions excellence in customer service.
Operating environment and messaging solutions Our increased focus and improved value At the end of 2003, we implemented aCustomer interactive solutions.
proposition following the launch of new clearly defined strategic plan to drive the solutions, the standardisation of our global Group through a turnaround phase and to We executed well against our solutions offerings and enhancements to our skills establish a platform for profitable growth.
strategy, growing solutions revenues in base, all contributed to the 27.6% growth The key areas of the plan were: constant currency by 27.6%, and in constant currency revenues achieved in Improving our focus increasing their contribution to Group our solutions lines of business.
Driving growth: revenues to 22.5% compared to 19.3% in Winning market share FY2003.
Increased demand, combined with the Growing solutions revenue impetus of the growth in our solutions lines Maximising the potential of our core As part of our strategy of improving our of business, led to a 13.6% increase in network integration business focus on specialised IT infrastructure constant currency product revenues in Increasing the contribution from solutions, we exited certain non-core ongoing operations.
Constant currency global sales activities including the Software AG and managed and professional services Turning around underperforming Oracle Applications business in Africa, revenues in ongoing operations together geographies Proxicom and iBridge in the US and Fixed grew by 12.2%.
The driver of growth in Improving delivery efficiencies and Mobile Telephony FMT in the UK.
managed services revenues was controlling costs.
increasing customer focus on improving Growth returns on IT investments.
Demand for Focus Revenues increased by 18% in reported professional services was pulled through Our aim is to be a leader in the provision US dollars and by 13% in ongoing by the increase in demand for solutions of specialist IT infrastructure solutions that operations after stripping out the impact of and more complex technologies.
help our customers to achieve their currency fluctuations constant currency.
Increasing the contribution from services business goals.
Network integration Enterprise and service provider customers revenues remains an important part of our remains the core of our business model are again investing in upgrading their IT strategy and to this end we have continued and during the year we achieved good infrastructures and buying IT services, and to invest in new services that complement growth and market-share gains in network demand picked up in the year under our solutions offerings and in improving integration in a number of geographies review following the declines in recent our services delivery capabilities.
DIMENSION DATA 11 chief executive officers report The quality of much of the business Our two turnaround countries in Europe, gains through improving synergies and signed during the year has improved and Germany and France, achieved good logistics, is being rolled out globally.
We the average size of our contract values recoveries following management and are also improving our sharing of has increased significantly as has the structural changes, despite a lacklustre intellectual property throughout the contribution from our global sales.
organisation and the development of of our key customer wins are included in reusable solutions.
Additionally, In Africa we adapted our go-to-market Dimension Data Commerce Centre, our model, made structural changes and Outlook global procurement and logistics offering, exited non-core businesses.
These Going into the new financial year, the is proving to be a key differentiator in the measures resulted in a strong turnaround demand outlook is tempered by global market.
Good progress is also being made to reported operating profit of US$27.6 macro-economic uncertainties.
We are, in building brand awareness.
million for the year compared to US$5.4 nevertheless, well positioned for growth million in FY2003.
We finalised the Black due to ongoing investment in our value Continuing to grow revenue is a key Economic Empowerment equity propositions and solutions offerings and element of our strategy of achieving a shareholding transaction late in the year are focused on driving further more acceptable operating margin.
and expect to reap the benefits of new improvements in returns.
market opportunities in both South Africa Turnaround geographies and the rest of Africa in the new financial Appreciation The growth strategies, improved value year.
To our customers, suppliers and partners I propositions, management changes and would like to express my appreciation for stringent cost controls that were Efficiencies and costs your continued support and commitment implemented in five turnaround During the turnaround phase, during this period of pleasing progress in geographies, have resulted in rationalisations, cost cutting and delivering returning the Group to profitability.
improvements in the performance of each improved performance metrics have of the identified geographies.
The increase in I would like to express my thanks and constant currency overheads in ongoing appreciation to our staff and management The turnaround in the US exceeded our operations was contained at 3.7%, well for their diligent and focused efforts in internal expectations.
Strong growth in below comparable revenue growth of implementing our strategies around the revenues was achieved through an 13.1%.
Key performance indicators such globe.
It has been both a challenging and improved value proposition, expanded as revenue and gross profit per head rewarding period and your hard work and solutions offerings and greater improved and overheads as a percentage dedication have resulted in the Group diversification in our exposure to customer of revenue came down to 19.6% from returning to a profitable growth path, a verticals.
We reported an operating profit 20.8% in FY2003.
fact that I am proud to report back to our of US$4.6 million compared to a loss of shareholders.
Our staff remain our most US$17.1 million in FY2003.
The initiatives to enhance managed valuable asset and as such we will services efficiencies are yielding results.
continue to focus on growing and investing In Asia, cost savings, rationalisations and We invested US$4.6 million in in our people, attracting and retaining the a better demand environment saw consolidating our services operating right skills and providing the best career operating profit more than double in architectures, databases and global growth and development opportunities.
In China our turnaround strategy service centres, which is enabling us to is on track, and whilst some progress has standardise our global service offerings In conclusion, the strides made during been made in reducing losses in Korea, a and execution capabilities.
2004 have left us healthier and stronger comprehensive business plan to as an organisation.
I believe we have accelerate the turnaround should yield Several programmes are in place to created a platform from which the Group further results in FY2005.
improve productivity and operational will be able to grow profitably in 2005 and efficiencies.
The consolidation of our beyond.
global service centres will be completed in FY2005 and Dimension Data Direct, an e-commerce ordering and delivery Brett Dawson platform that aims to extract efficiency Chief Executive Officer ANNUAL REPORT 2004
