Through our portfolio of leading retail brands we serve more than 100 million customers across Europe every year, offering unrivalled levels of choice, service and support.
We are the first choice for todays most exciting technologies, designed and built by the worlds leading manufacturers.
We share our knowledge across borders, developing new ideas that build customer loyalty and strengthen our portfolio of brands.
Were constantly improving creating exciting partnerships, entering new markets, introducing new services and utilising our ever-increasing buying power.
Our brands OFFER VALUE to customers and BUILD VALUE for shareholders.
08 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 09 THINK SERVICE THINK EXPERTISE.
Our employees speak service fluently in 12 languages.
We deliver the support our customers require wherever and whenever they need us at home, at work, on the move, around the clock.
10 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 Every year we resolve millions of support and service enquiries across Europe: by phone, via the web, in-store and in our customers homes and businesses.
Were developing and delivering new service solutions all the time investing in our systems and developing the skills of our employees.
We win awards for our investment in our people because we know that personal commitment is at the heart of first class service.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 11 THINK GROWTH THINK AHEAD.
In five years, we have grown from a UK company into a European Group.
This year our established international businesses delivered 100 million in operating profit for the first time and our new ventures throughout Europe are sowing the seeds for further growth.
Were already the market leading electrical retailer in the UK and the Nordic region and were on course for leadership in new markets.
To enable further growth, were developing world-class retail talent.
Last year we offered more than 500 training and development options to our employees and we delivered more than 12,000 hours of leadership training.
To underpin our market leadership, we are investing in store systems, streamlining management processes and fine tuning our supply chain.
With growth comes increased responsibility.
Weve agreed new measures for our environmental and social performance and were making a substantial contribution to our communities.
Were committed to Being the Best.
To be the best, were thinking service, brands and growth and were constantly thinking ahead.
12 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 13
