CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We achieved major profit advances in both Corrugated Packaging and Ofce Products Wholesaling, which largely offset the margin squeeze in Paper.
Tony Thorne Group Chief Executive it contributed 18.1 million of sales and Overview 1.2 million of operating profit to the Group From the outset, we expected 2003 04 to be result.
Operating margin before exceptional a difficult year as margins in our important items and amortisation of intangibles Paper business were under pressure from increasing competition in the paper market increased slightly to 6.0% 2002 03: 5.9%, and there were no signs of improvement in while return on average capital employed was the general trading environment.
Our principal slightly lower at 11.1% 11.3%.
Profit before objectives were to minimise the impact of the tax, exceptional items and amortisation of downturn in Paper margins while continuing intangibles increased slightly to 81.4 million to raise the results of the rest of the Group, 79.7 million while adjusted earnings maintain the development of our key market per share was also a little ahead.
Interest positions and generate a healthy cash flow.
cover remained strong at 8.8 times.
I am pleased to report a year of considerable Overall, this was a robust result, given the success against these objectives.
We achieved weak paper market, and reflects the success major profit advances in both Corrugated of our drive to improve and develop the Packaging, particularly in continental Europe, returns of the Groups non-Paper operations.
and Office Products Wholesaling, which largely offset the margin squeeze in Paper The cash inflow after dividends but before net and produced a creditable overall financial acquisitions, was 33.1 million 32.0 million.
We generated a strong cash surplus After net expenditure on acquisitions after dividends but before net acquisitions.
of 181.6 million, principally LINPAC The acquisition of LINPAC Containers Containers, and including the proceeds from enlarged our important UK Corrugated the rights issue, there was a net cash outflow Packaging business.
The decision by the of 72.4 million which resulted in net Office of Fair Trading to refer the acquisition borrowings of 274.7 million 202.3 million for review by the Competition Commission after the effect of exchange rate movements.
means we are unable to proceed with the The balance sheet remains strong with planned integration into DS Smith until the gearing at 48.9%, post the acquisition.
Packaging Group sales and operating profit before In our larger activity, Packaging, which exceptional items and amortisation of accounted for 64% of Group sales and 74% intangibles were both 1% ahead of last of operating profit before amortisation of year at 1,488.5 million and 88.8 million, intangibles, demand in our principal markets respectively.
Excluding the effect of continued to be flat or declining, and margins acquisitions, disposals and foreign exchange were under pressure, particularly in Paper.
differences, operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles was The overall Packaging operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation 1% lower.
In the six weeks of the financial of intangibles was 3% down on last year.
year in which we owned LINPAC Containers, DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 5 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW This reflects a very significant shortfall In liquid packaging and dispensing, the and Spain we had satisfactory sales growth.
European bag-in-box business, including Although Spicers Germany remained in in Paper, a good advance in Corrugated the German Zewathener business acquired Packaging, particularly on the continent, loss for the year as a whole, it generated in 2002, traded well but the tap business and a small increase in Plastic Packaging.
a positive cash flow and traded at around was affected by increased competitor activity break-even in the second half, while Spicers In Paper and Corrugated Packaging, sales in detergent taps.
The divisions overall result Spain made good progress against its plan.
were flat while operating profit before was held back by the results at two small In Italy, preparations are well advanced for exceptional items and amortisation of operations: a specialist coating business, our entry into the market during 2004 05. intangibles fell by 5%.
Productivity in our whose exports to Asia and the Middle East In Office Products Manufacturing, operating paper operations improved, but operating fell in the first half of the year, and a profit was 1.4 million 4.0 million, this profit was down sharply due to a particularly modified atmosphere produce packaging hostile combination of lower paper prices decline against last year reflecting both the business, StePac, in which we have been and higher costs of raw material and energy.
difficult trading conditions and the sale of investing.
A programme of initiatives has Spicer Hallfield towards the end of 2002 03.
The profit shortfall in Paper was substantially been implemented across the division to Action has been taken to reduce costs further offset by continued improvement in the move results forward again through driving and to stimulate sales.
performance of our Corrugated Packaging sales growth and raising productivity.
operations, particularly in continental Europe, LINPAC Containers Ofce Products and the contribution from LINPAC Containers The acquisition of LINPAC Containers on Total Office Products sales were 1% lower in the closing weeks of the year.
Paper and 22 March 2004 made DS Smith the leading but operating profit before exceptional items box prices increased throughout Europe corrugated packaging company in the and amortisation of intangibles increased by towards the end of our financial year: this UK.
The net cost of the acquisition was 14%.
This advance in profits was despite provided little benefit in 2003 04.
The start 167 million, including fees for the the office products market across Europe point for 2004 05 was improved by these transaction.
The acquisition improved our continuing to suffer from poor sales volume increases but we have not been able fully market position, by broadening the Groups and customers trading down to lower to recover increases in input costs.
customer base, and strengthened our position specification products.
as a major buyer and seller of paper.
The Although we made progress in Plastic In Office Products Wholesaling, which business is trading well and we are pleased Packaging, with a 7% advance in sales accounted for 94% of our Office Products to have its high quality people and operations and a 3% increase in operating profit sales, operating profit before amortisation of within DS Smith.
We remain confident before exceptional items and amortisation intangibles increased by 34% to 21.7 million.
that the synergies outlined in our circular of intangibles, the improvement was less The combined profits of our developed are available but during the Competition than in recent years.
In our core businesses businesses, being Spicers UK, France and Commission inquiry period LINPAC of industrial returnable transit packaging Ireland, were well up on the previous year, Containers and DS Smith Packaging will RTP and liquid packaging and dispensing, reflecting our actions to cut costs, raise profit improved.
We grew strongly in RTP carry on business separately: they both margins through better buying and improve where our bottle crate business continued have good market positions and will to perform well, helped by product the product mix while maintaining service maintain a strong focus on serving their innovation and strong market demand.
In our developing markets of Germany respective customers.
LINPAC Containers acquisition The addition of LINPAC Containers to the Group improved our market position in corrugated packaging and strengthened our position as a major buyer and seller of paper.
It has high quality staff, an experienced management team and well-invested facilities.
The integrated box plant at Louth, Lincolnshire is one of the most advanced in the UK, operating on a 24-hour, seven-day production cycle and offering customers the combination of low-cost, responsive and technically Innovative manufacturing Paper reels are High productivity Technically advanced operating advanced manufacturing.
loaded onto an automated handling system which systems enable the corrugator to achieve superior enables faster paper changes on the corrugator.
6 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 This was a robust result, given the weak paper market, and reects the success of our drive to improve and develop the returns of the Groups non-Paper operations.
Service capability Maintaining high service levels was a key contributor to Spicers progress.
The commitment of capital to re-invigorating sales growth to raise their Pension scheme existing operations will remain relatively profitability further.
In our developing In accordance with SSAP 24, the 2003 04 tight, investment being concentrated on businesses, our objectives are to bring results include a nil pension charge for the new products, growth markets and major Spicers Germany through to good levels Groups UK defined benefit scheme as the cost-down opportunities.
We will continue to of profit, to move the Spanish business to amortisation of the 2001 surplus largely restructure or exit low performing businesses.
offsets the ongoing cost of the scheme.
The break-even as rapidly as possible, and to triennial valuation of the scheme is currently launch successfully in Italy.
We believe In Paper and Corrugated Packaging there taking place and the report is due in autumn the value of Spicers is being substantially is further potential to develop our European 2004.
Recognising that, in adverse markets, enhanced by its continental expansion and market positions.
For our established the funding position of the scheme had increasing profitability.
corrugated businesses in the UK and France, deteriorated since April 2001, the Company where demand is at best flat and price The Groups resilient performance in resumed payments into the scheme, at the pressure is intense, we have to look to 2003 04 is confirmation of our strategic rate of 10 million per annum, in the second innovate on product and service while and operational progress in recent years.
As previously indicated, the lowering costs and increasing efficiency.
We intend to build on this in the coming year.
Board expects there to be a charge to the We remain alert to bolt-on acquisitions and Groups profit and loss account in respect green field development, concentrating on of the scheme in 2004 05.
This charge, the faster growing markets of southern and under SSAP 24, will reflect the ongoing eastern Europe.
In our UK Paper operations, costs of the scheme of approximately where margins have been under greater 10 million and the amortisation of the pressure than in the past, we are developing prepayments and any deficit identified by options to address the growing demands the SSAP 24 valuation.
of our customers for lighter weight papers Tony Thorne Group Chief Executive Under the FRS 17 accounting standard, which and the need to remain internationally the Company has not adopted, the scheme competitive over the longer-term.
had a post-tax net deficit, as at 30 April 2004, In Plastic Packaging, our strategic segments of 54.6 million compared with a post-tax net continue to present profitable growth deficit of 93.8 million a year ago.
In liquid packaging and Strategy dispensing, the highest priority is to deliver We have pursued a strategy of Improve and increased returns on the investment made Develop over the last three years and this in recent years.
In industrial RTP, our remains in place: the objective being an strong European presence provides a base aggressive programme of raising operational for further development both organically performance across the Group, while seeking and through acquisitions.
areas to develop our strong market positions in Packaging and Office Products Wholesaling.
Spicers is continuing to develop its position Return on average capital employed is a key as the leading European office products measure for us and our return of 11.1% wholesaler.
Our well-established businesses in 2003 04 was slightly above our cost in the UK and France are focused on DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 7
