ElectroAR 14-23 rev tp 4 6 04 8:40 am Page 14 14 Electrocomponents plc Chief Executives review Further developments in our catalogue are in progress.
Elsewhere, the launch of our same day despatch service in the Shanghai area of China, facilitated by a catalogue of 26,500 compliant products, means that we are now able to offer the same level of service in the region as we do in the rest of the world.
There does remain a risk of further import restrictions into China which we will address as they arise.
e-Commerce During the year we have enhanced our websites in many countries and now have 66 dynamic websites in 16 languages throughout the A new marketing programme has been world.
The search function on our websites has been improved, as has the speed at which our websites operate.
e-Commerce sales grew developed, to better communicate the value at 43% over last year and now represent 17% of total sales.
e-Commerce RS brings to customers together with a new is particularly effective in Japan where 43% of all sales are made in this way.
An improved version of our PurchasingManager procurement tool was launched during the year.
This tool enables customers to maintain control over all purchases made by their maintenance and or The Groups goal remains the same as in previous years: to lead the high development engineers that are using the application.
service segment of every distribution market in which we operate.
To The significant investments made in e-Commerce have resulted in achieve this we have continued to make significant investments in our the Group winning several prestigious awards in the UK during the year business, mainly in the areas of sales and marketing and systems, and including the e-Business Strategy of the Year award at the National these are now starting to show results.
Business Awards 2003 and four awards at the European Catalogue and After a difficult first half our sales and profits showed a progressive Mail Order ECMOD awards 2003 including the Best Overall award.
improvement during the second half.
Processes Sales and marketing The main initiatives during the year were the first implementations of A new marketing programme has been developed, to better our Enterprise Business Systems in Asia and France.
Once the rollout communicate the value RS brings to customers together with a new tag programme is complete it will provide more standardised and effective line: Do great things.
The programme has initially been developed in the approaches to data management, generate operational efficiencies and UK following extensive market research and involvement of creative support and enhance customer service.
The rollouts were successful agencies.
The launch towards the end of the year involved a large scale and the inevitable teething problems are being successfully resolved integrated campaign including adverts in the national and trade press, with service levels in France returning to normal.
on billboards and a PR campaign to find Britains Heroes at Work in In addition our Product Management team continues with the range 2004.
Initial customer reaction has been positive.
This programme will optimisation programme.
This will ensure that the most effective be rolled out to other markets over the next few years.
selection of products in each category meets our customers needs.
We have continued to build and invest in our sales forces around The Supply Chain team has been successful in maintaining high service the world.
In the UK there was a 50% increase in the field sales force, levels whilst increasing stock efficiency.
combined with additional training for all.
A sales effectiveness programme was launched in Europe to enhance customer-facing sales In summary skills and capabilities.
Sales in North America have been driven up, The strategy of the Group remains unchanged from previous years and partly as a result of the launch of the Customer First initiative to we continue to invest in its future as demonstrated by the above improve the effectiveness of our branches in serving customers.
It is pleasing, however, that we are also generating returns Investment in marketing and sales increased significantly across much on our past investments.
I remain highly confident about the future of the Group.
Investment in the catalogue continues.
For example, the layout of A detailed review of the performance of the Group is included within the Allied catalogue has been improved and this also helped grow Allied the Operating and Financial Review on pages 15 to 21. sales in the second half.
The improved test and measurement section of the catalogue has led to increased sales.
An upgraded CD-ROM has been issued with the catalogue in the UK.
The CD-ROM now mirrors the website and therefore provides a more user-friendly platform for customers.
In addition, the catalogue frequency in France was changed to give an annual catalogue supported by greater short term media.
