Emap is in good shape, with many famous brands in strong market A confident, growing, well-managed core business provides positions, spread across a range of attractive media markets.
the ideal platform for new launches, daring reinventions and bolt-on acquisitions.
These activities accelerate growth and Everyone in the business is focused on growth: strong underlying create real shareholder value.
revenue growth, owing through into steady, long-term, earnings per share growth.
The structure and breadth of Emap, which has been developed over many years, give an important competitive advantage.
The results for the year ended March 2004 demonstrate the benets We are not over-reliant on any particular product or sector of a strategy that is built on focused investment in the core business.
The four great media businesses that make up Emap Consumer Media, Communications, Total turnover for the year increased by 9% to 1,050 million.
profit Performance and France are exposed to different external before tax, on a normalised basis, was up 12% to 196 million.
dynamics, market cycles and competitive activity.
This means Inclusive of goodwill amortisation and impairment amounting to that at any time we can divert resource to take advantage 49 million, reorganisation items of 4 million and profit on asset of opportunities or to protect important assets for the disposals of 1 million, pre-tax profit was 144 million.
Normalised future, providing the consistency that ensures long-term value.
earnings per share were up 14% to 55.8 pence.
The Board has It has often been argued that creating value in a boom market proposed a total dividend of 23.5 pence a share, a 9% increase.
is much easier than protecting value in a downturn: our 4 Emap Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Chief executives review Chief executives review Emap Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 Tom Moloney Tom Moloney Emap is in good shape, with many famous brands in strong market positions, spread across a range of attractive media markets managers know that their performance will be measured Audience growth at Kiss 100 and Magic 105.4 in London has in both absolute and relative terms.
been nothing short of stunning: the number one goal across Big City in the north is to hold audiences in an increasingly Consumer Media has had another outstanding year under the competitive radio sector.
He has built a strong team which has an unrivalled track record of successful launches.
heat, for New licence applications and the development of digital are example, is one of the most prominent magazine brands in the UK, part of running a radio business these days.
We have been and the award-winning Closer continues to strengthen Emaps successful in winning our first FM licence, Kerrang!
105.2, position in the competitive, but profitable, womens weekly sector.
which begins broadcasting to the West Midlands in June 2004.
The courage to innovate lies behind the success of the Consumer We have also established an enviable digital position, taking Media team.
ZOO, ECMs most recent launch, aims to establish a advantage of both the DAB and Freeview platforms to build strong position in a new weekly mens magazine sector.
Today over 20% of our total audience comes from competitors but the proven magazine craft and marketing skills listeners to national stations distributed on digital including within the team have helped it make a successful start.
Kerrang!, Smash Hits!, Magic, Kiss and, now, heat and Mojo radio.
significant contributions from brands such as MCN, Max Power, There is still much talk of consolidation in the radio industry but Angling Times, Empire, Todays Golfer and MATCH underline not much action.
Earlier in the year we took the the strength and depth of the Emap portfolio.
This year brands opportunity to acquire a significant stake in Scottish Radio Holdings such as Top Sant and More have had significant investment Plc.
We see many opportunities for growth and we aim to maintain to reinvent them and we are confident we will see the benets a market leading position but we will not destroy value by over the coming months.
Emap Communications is starting to see the benefits of the The consumer magazine publishing industry in France appears cyclical recovery that has been widely forecast for businessto be entering a new phase of growth after three flat years.
The team have endured three tough years Access to television advertising, effective from 1 January 2004, but have managed to deliver solid financial results.
has led to a series of promotions and launches, particularly in the TV listings sector.
Tl Star and Tl Poche are important brands Communications has developed a media neutral approach for us, but we also have strong titles in automotive, mens, womens to business to business information provision ranging and a range of specialist sectors that will help us protect profits across magazines, exhibitions, events, conferences and in the near term and grow our share over the longer term.
Importantly it is structured around markets, Arnaud fide Puyfontaine has established Emap as one of the whilst most of our competitors are still organised by media.
top three publishers in France through a series of successful acquisitions.
A more dynamic environment now offers the exciting Under the leadership of Derek Carter the team have been possibility of launching.
The launches of FHM and ADDX in focusing on portfolio management.
Health Service Journal, recent years have both been successful so the team clearly have Broadcast, Spring and Autumn Fairs, Glee, MEED, Retail the skills required to take advantage of this growth opportunity.
Week, Construction News and Drapers are just a selection of the brands that have enjoyed solid growth this year.
Emaps diversity gives it strength.
We have a proven track record of being exible and moving fast within our markets, and The conference business in the UK continues to expand, the Group operates from a low xed cost base.
These guiding while the retail shows in Europe are also developing well.
principles, together with our simple, clear strategy, will help ensure we deliver shareholder value over the long-term.
We have refused to overpay for assets on a number of occasions this year, but have still completed well-targeted bolt-on acquisitions, such as Pure Womenswear, and since the year end, Interbuild and ABI.
Tom Moloney Chief Executive Management changes within Emap Performance have given us the opportunity to bring together our analogue and digital radio business under the leadership of Dee Ford.
