14 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Chief Executive Officers review 01 David McCulloch Chief Executive Officer 02 BP Connects Wild Bean Caf concept Trademarks of BP plc Overview Materials inflation, particularly Food and beverage sales in the 01 steel, continued to rise rapidly US in 2004 are projected to be We continued to improve our in the second half, but I am $440bn, up 4.4% from 2003. performance in FY04.
pleased to report that we were Growth in Europe for the five Our Group: able to offset the majority major markets France, Germany, of this through Groupwide cost Italy, Spain and the UK in which achieved Food Equipment saving initiatives and timely we participate is expected to be turnover growth of 32.2m price increases.
slightly more than 2% for 2004, 5% on a like-for-like basis: reaching 1184bn.
We are pleased with the increased like-for-like Food improved profitability of our The competitive nature of this 02 Equipment operating profit Food Retail Equipment group, industry, the natural market by 5.7m 10% : which increased like-for-like growth that is occurring and increased adjusted profit operating profit by 3.6m.
changing menu preferences all before tax by 2.3m 6% : This was driven by the combine to create increased continued turnaround of demand for food equipment.
reduced net debt by Kysor Warren and the 48.4m 35%.
The market for food equipment absence in FY04 of costs is estimated to be some $24bn Like-for-like Food Equipment associated with a legal claim worldwide of which $15bn is turnover was up 5% but it that has now been settled.
estimated to be equipment should be noted that FY04 The improvement in net debt for the food service industry.
contained 53 weeks compared was ahead of our expectations There is a large installed base to 52 weeks in FY03.
Of the through a combination of that needs, or will need, 5% increase in FY04 like-for-like excellent cash performance replacing.
We believe that the turnover, we estimate that 2% and the benefit of 10.3m industry has a positive outlook.
represented the effect of the from foreign exchange rate extra week.
Not only do we believe demand movements.
Our continued will increase, but we are seeing Profit improvement in our good performance on cash evidence that the type of North American Food Service flow was instrumental in equipment required is becoming Equipment business was driven obtaining more favourable more sophisticated and by the improving US economy banking terms when we menu-specific.
As consumers and a return of general market refinanced in September.
seek operators who can offer confidence in particular by Markets fresh, healthy and fast, Quick Service Restaurant operators need to respond with QSR chains.
Food service equipment that will get the The global outlook for the Market conditions in Europe job done.
Early reports relating food service end markets, continue to be difficult with to our Accelerated Cooking which we serve, is positive volume margin pressures, Technology indicate that as changing lifestyles and coupled with increased research customers are extremely increased disposable incomes and development R&D interested in our ability to continue to expand the available investments in new combicombine and modify existing market.
In the US, the food ovens and the non-repeat of models to satisfy their menuand beverage industry grew a major roll-out from the specific needs.
almost ten fold from 1970 to Like-for-like turnover requires prior year previous year, resulting in a turnover to be adjusted for the effects of 2000, and is forecast by the foreign exchange.
3.4m decline in like-for-like Operating profit is stated before goodwill National Restaurant Association operating profit.
Like-for-like to grow by some 50% to operating profit requires prior year operating profit to be further adjusted for the effects of $577bn by 2010. foreign exchange.
Adjusted profit before tax is stated before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
15 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Chief Executive Officers review Food retail and supplier bases in an We position ourselves in various In Europe Asia, like-for-like The food retail industry has also industry that typically bids markets with over 30 brands, turnover was up 1%, as grown since 1975, increasing its business in two or three many of which, including increases in our beverage and sales from $123bn to $456bn year tranches, makes for Frymaster, Convotherm, ice businesses, particularly in projected in 2004.
At the same very competitive positioning Cleveland, Delfield, Garland, Asia, were offset by market time this sector in the US has when buyers release their Lincoln, and Scotsman decline elsewhere in the UK been losing share of the total bid packages.
food spend to the food service Food Service Equipment In FY04, our Food Service Operating profit was 58.0m sector, down from 63% in business Equipment turnover was with 51.3m 88% coming 1975 to 51% currently.
541m, with 396m from North American operations Our Food Service Equipment Food retail is fighting back 73% in North America and and 6.7m 12% from business supplies restaurants by opening restaurants in 145m 27% in Europe Asia.
and commercial kitchens of all supermarkets and expanding The like-for-like change was The like-for-like operating types in over 140 countries.
quick service menus in an overall increase of 6%, profit change was an increase We use a network of third party convenience stores with North America up 7% of 12% in North America and distributors, except in the US C-stores.
a reduction of 34% in where we use third party sales Europe Asia resulting in an The US supermarket industry representatives.
In the other In North America, our overall increase of 4%.
has gone through significant six major markets we have turnover growth came from a consolidation over the past Group-owned Enodis master combination of: the return of In North America most of our decade with more than distributors supported by a general market confidence, operating companies improved 50% of sales being controlled network of dealers and third in particular by QSR chains: like-for-like operating profit as by the ten largest operators.
demand for replacement a result of increased volumes As ownership has consolidated, equipment as capital and the aggressive actions that It is difficult to obtain accurate the industry has also expenditure restrictions we took to mitigate materials market share information.
experienced the growth of eased: menu expansion inflation and general margin However, we estimate that Wal-Mart in the food retail that necessitated new pressures.
This was done we have approximately 6% sector, moving from a standing equipment supported by through both price increases of the highly fragmented start to market leader in the the introduction of our new and cost reductions.
global market, 16% of the US past ten years.
products: and a consolidated market, and several of our We do not anticipate any sales and service effort.
The industry today is undergoing leading brands have 20% to relaxation of the materials cost structural changes as the major 40% share of their respective Almost all our North American pressures, and we will continue players evaluate new strategic market segments.
businesses increased like-for-like to seek to mitigate these positioning and past acquisitions turnover, with particularly strong through the combination of We market a broad range of are digested.
performances in our ice, further price increases and food service equipment refrigeration and fryer operations.
our lean operating and Food retail equipment suppliers including cooking and warming purchasing initiatives.
have also consolidated over products, fryers, speciality the years with the US industry ovens, refrigerated storage We are particularly pleased being served by four major and display cases, hot and that our refrigeration business, players including Enodis cold prep tables and storage, which suffered intense margin and a number of speciality ice machines, beverage pressures in FY03, more than companies.
The combination dispensers, ventilation and doubled its operating profit.
of consolidated customer warewashing equipment.
We manufacture out of 29 factories in eight countries.
16 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Chief Executive Officers review In Europe Asia, we had mixed We continued to invest in In Canada, the initial roll-out We believe that Kysor Panel results.
Good performances upgrades of our Merrychef of the hot deli concept is Systems is the industry leader in our ice and beverage product line with the underway, with approximately in storage rooms, leveraging its businesses were offset by poor development of two ovens 950 restaurants scheduled ability to quickly and accurately performances elsewhere in which include a built-in to be completed by January assess customer needs and the UK and Continental Europe.
In Australia, there are then deliver a quality product in In the UK, the effects of difficult the need for ventilation.
42 restaurants currently testing a timely manner.
The company market conditions were This makes the product ideal the concept.
Additionally, had another strong year, and is exacerbated by the absence for use by chains in non- 400 systems were shipped beginning to penetrate business of a repeat of the major chain traditional installations.
These to test restaurants in the US segments beyond food retail for roll-out that occurred in FY03.
products are currently being this summer, and McDonalds opportunities where the product introduced in the US market, will continue to assess future offers added value.
In Continental Europe we with a particular sales emphasis potential for the concept.
incurred increased product We believe that Kysor Warren on QSR and C-store markets.
development costs leading We have a number of other continues to rebuild its to the launch, in September, Enodis is well positioned to accelerated cooking projects reputation with consistent of a complete new product meet customer demands underway.
These include quality and delivery, and is line at Convotherm.
for integrated hot cold supplying KFC in the UK with winning back sales from equipment that produces a Merrychef ovens to support customers previously lost, as Our focus on product fresher product in a shorter their Rice Bowl programme well as expanding its existing innovation continued in FY04.
The efforts of and working in partnership customer base.
The 12 new products and our engineers at our operating with BP Connect and Cuisine eight product line extensions In FY04, our Food Retail companies combined with fide France to ensure high which we introduced at NAFEM Equipment turnover was the application of the quality products in BP Connects in September 2003 contributed 104m, up 4% on a like-for-like engineering knowledge of Wild Bean Cafs.
to our sales growth in 2004. basis over the prior year.
the staff of our Technology Food Retail Equipment Like-for-like operating profit We increased our R&D Center in Tampa, has resulted business was 7.1m compared to a investments in FY04 and as in a product offering we refer profit of 3.5m in FY03 and referred to above, most to as Accelerated Cooking Our Food Retail Equipment a loss of 4.5m in FY02.
significantly, we redesigned the Technology.
To date we have business supplies, primarily entire Convotherm combi-oven several items being tested by on a direct basis, supermarkets The continued improvement product line.
The new major chains and are beginning and C-stores in the US, Canada, was a combination of volume Convotherm 3 series of to see orders develop.
increases, improved product products has several patented quality and a lean manufacturing Enodis is particularly pleased to Kysor Panel Systems storage features and was introduced focus which will continue into be supporting McDonalds with rooms and Kysor Warrens to our international distributors FY05.
Futhermore, excess its new hot deli sandwich test.
display cases are manufactured with great reviews at the accruals originally provided The Enodis Technology Center in five US plants.
Hogatec trade show in in FY03 were released in coordinated the development of September.
The Convotherm 3 respect of a legal claim that a special version of our Lincoln is a truly global product range was satisfactorily settled in dual technology toaster oven, and to maximise the benefit of the period.
combined with a unique this development we intend to customised refrigerated increase marketing expenditure preparation unit from Delfield to help us aggressively pursue as key elements of the hot deli market share gains in this large sandwich station.
17 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Chief Executive Officers review 01 Merrychefs HD1925, used by KFC for its rice bowl project 02 Employees at the Scotsman China factory in Shanghai Pricing in this market continues Eurostyle Garland ranges will be In FY05, we believe we are 01 to be extremely competitive made in Sheffield, UK, for the facing higher levels of materials and the severe materials UK European market and inflation.
In addition to the inflation we face adds to that Delfield reach-in refrigerators aggressive expansion of our challenge.
We will remain and freezers will access the lean manufacturing and supply focused on gaining profitable Middle East and Asian markets chain initiatives, we plan to market share while reducing from our joint venture plant implement price increases to costs to remain competitive.
Additionally we mitigate the impact.
are responding to customer Strategy and focus Financial flexibility requests to manufacture locally Our net debt levels will allow 02 Our strategy in the last two in China.
Scotsman China us to invest further in new years has left us well positioned is working with Frymaster to products, product capabilities, to benefit from the economic prepare its Shanghai plant information technology and recovery that is now evident in in order to increase the market expansion.
Additionally our North American Food production of Frymaster we are planning to complete a Service Equipment markets.
fryers to support major chains complex restructuring of the We will build on this base in their Asian growth.
Group scheme of arrangement focusing on three key areas: Lean enterprise to achieve further financial Top line growth We are expanding our successful flexibility for the future including We are encouraged by the lean manufacturing efforts into a the ability to reinstate dividends.
expanding number of lean culture throughout the entire Summary opportunities we have for organisation.
Lean manufacturing our Accelerated Cooking will continue to gain momentum I would like to take this Technology.
The formation throughout all of our facilities in opportunity to thank the Board, of Merrychef USA has been FY05.
Continued investments in our management team, all of announced with a dedicated common ERP systems will serve our employees worldwide sales and service team being to bolster these initiatives.
and our customers, channel assembled to penetrate partners and suppliers for Our supply chain management QSR and C-store markets.
will be expanded to include The introduction to the market value analysis, further FY04 was another year of good of the new Convotherm 3 consolidated purchases progress for Enodis, and we will combi product line with its and lean processes, including continue to move forward in patented features is underway.
closer working relationships FY05 implementing our strategy We are leveraging our brands with key suppliers.
We plan to manufacture 3 in the US for In Europe we will rationalise the North American market.
manufacturing to address low productivity and position us for the growth of core products.
David McCulloch Chief Executive Officer
