07 Chief Executives review America and the UK, representing a secure Overview revenue stream worth 2.8 billion.
As we Safety expand in North America and grow our UK Safety is our number one priority and every rail operations we expect that more than employee has a responsibility for safety.
half of the Groups annual revenues will be The right attitude towards safety and covered by such contracts.
putting in place the right policies, procedures, equipment, training and North America support will help us embed a safety culture.
In North America the Group is the second I am pleased to report that across the largest operator of student transportation Group lost time incidents have been with some 17,400 school buses across the reduced and we have seen positive trends US and Canada.
We operate the largest in other key safety indicators.
The separate transit contracting and management Corporate Responsibility Report details the business in North America and we have an progress we have made to further improve expanding management and maintenance our safety record, as well as to advance services division.
environmental management and stakeholder consultation in the Results communities in which we operate.
I am delighted with our performance in North America where we have delivered a Results fifth year of strong growth.
Turnover from I am extremely pleased to report another our three North American operations successful year with expansion in our core increased to 620.7m or $1,051.6m 2003: markets in the US and UK.
Group turnover 582.4m or $901.0m, an increase in US increased by 8% to 2,479m 2003: dollars of 16.7%.
Underlying growth in $95.1m, an increase in US dollars of earnings, together with management 14.8%.
Margins in each of the divisions actions to control costs, was offset by have been maintained or increased.
The 17m reduction in rail subsidy and business is generating excellent returns increased franchise payments, as well as with EBITDA of 107.1m or $183.7m increased National Insurance and Pension 2003: 103.3m or $159.5m making the contributions of 15m.
Strong EBITDA business self financing for maintenance operating profit plus depreciation of capital expenditure, contract growth and 307.1m 2003: 315.3m has enabled the in-fill acquisitions.
Since acquisition in Group to continue to invest in the business, 1999, turnover has grown by 73% and with net capital expenditure and business profit has grown by 65%, generating a cash acquisitions totalling 197m, as well as return on invested capital of 12% which increasing the dividend by 6% and comfortably exceeds our cost of capital.
returning 29m to shareholders through the further repurchase of equity during the year.
First Student Over the last five years the Groups revenue The division has had a very successful year.
US Dollar turnover and operating profit Approximately 80% of the revenue in our increased by 10% with margins maintained North American operations is secured at 13.8%.
We now operate approximately under medium-term contracts.
Currently 17,400 buses, an increase of the Group has contracts with government approximately 1,900 buses during the year.
agencies and other large organisations for We retained 90% of our existing school bus periods averaging 3-5 years in both North 08 Chief Executives review continued contracts that came up for renewal and we on behalf of transit authorities in states won contracts to operate some 1,300 such as California, Florida and New York.
We were particularly The strategy of First Transit is to gradually pleased to be awarded the management increase margins on urban transit contract to run all of the 683 school buses contracting business and to develop the on behalf of the City of Boston.
The start fast expanding and higher value call centre, up of this large contract and other new paratransit and transit management business in the autumn of 2003 went markets.
In line with this strategy we extremely well.
We have also obtained entered the corporate shuttle market with significant additional business in the strategic purchase of a small company Pennsylvania, Washington and California as operating university and corporate shuttles well as continuing to gain new business in in the three states of Michigan, Ohio and Y Yellow School Buses in North America ellow School Buses in North America Illinois, Minnesota, Massachusetts, Missouri Kentucky.
During the year, bidding and Louisiana.
remained competitive for new and rebid contracts and we withdrew from, or did not We have continued to make strategic in-fill renew, some of our lower margin contracts.
North American Divisional Turnover $m acquisitions of smaller privately owned However, we renewed important contracts Student 616.7m school bus companies at attractive with the cities of Miami and Los Angeles Transit 330.4m multiples and during the year acquired and most recently we were delighted to be Services 104.5m approximately 560 new buses.
We re-awarded the contract to run the largest purchased two New York state based paratransit call centre in New York.
We Total $1,051.6m companies operating 285 buses that fit also gained new outsourced management well with our current business mix in that contracts from the public sector in region.
In addition, we made our first Arkansas, North Carolina, Illinois acquisition of 35 buses in the large and and Virginia.
At the end of March 2004, we purchased a 244 bus company First Services operating in New Hampshire and Vermont, The division, which provides a range of which will contribute to the trading result management and maintenance services, for 2004 05. has had a very successful year with US dollar turnover increasing by 35% and Bidding is under way for new contracts to operating profit by 38%, reflecting commence in autumn 2004 and we are significant growth in First Vehicle and a full confident that we will be able to continue year contribution from L&E Mobile which to win and acquire new business at our has proved to be an excellent acquisition.
This specialist business, which fits communications equipment into police cars First Transit and emergency vehicles, was acquired in US Dollar turnover increased by 25% and February 2003.
During the year, 100% of operating profit by 32%.
These results all rebids were retained without margin include nine months contribution from the dilution.
First Services has also seen transit business we acquired in July 2003 significant contract growth with the addition for $22.5m.
This business, which has of 11 new contracts including Atlantic City, proved to be an excellent fit with our Arlington, Roswell and Exxon Mobil Inc. existing operations, is performing ahead In addition, L&E Mobile has won contracts of our acquisition model and has an with the Massachusetts State Police and annualised turnover of $95m, with American Water Inc. servicing 500 and contracts to operate some 1,200 buses 800 vehicles respectively.
Over the next 09 12 months the business plans to increase London its range of services and look for additional The introduction by Transport for London opportunities in the Federal sector.
The TfL of the congestion charge in February outlook for further growth remains strong.
2003 has created worldwide interest because of the dramatic and sustained Investment and margins reduction in traffic delays.
We have The North American operations are now invested heavily to increase the size and able to fund their own maintenance capital quality of our London bus fleet and expenditure, contract growth and in-fill properties to support this policy.
Contract acquisitions from internally generated mileage operated on behalf of TfL has resources.
We have achieved excellent increased by 13% and average bus returns from acquisitions demonstrating our speeds in the capital have improved Park and Ride Service in York rigorous investment criteria.
We now operate investment, including contract bids, must approximately 1,370 buses in London meet our internal return targets to ensure 2003: 1,235.
We have opened two new that margins in each of the divisions are depots at Willesden and Rainham and are maintained.
developing a new site in Dagenham.
We are now well placed to benefit from further Outlook North America growth in the London bus market because Our North American operations are of our strong position in the Thames delivering excellent returns for Gateway corridor, which is expected to shareholders, and we are confident that be the focus of substantial growth in we can continue to expand the business population and employment over the next and maintain margins through our proven few years.
combination of organic growth and well researched acquisitions.
Urban areas In urban operations outside London, which represent approximately 55% of UK Bus our business, passenger growth continues The Group is the largest bus operator in to be driven by a mixture of our own the UK with a fleet of 9,300 buses, and marketing initiatives and partnership a market share of approximately 23%.
working with local authorities to develop We carry some 2.8 million passengers bus lanes, park & ride sites and other every day.
projects to improve the competitive position of public transport.
Our policy is to Results concentrate our capital and operating Turnover increased to 906.2m 2003: investment in those areas where local 859.4m and operating profit before lease councils are committed to supporting the financing costs was 111.2m 2003: use of public transport.
This is a particularly pleasing passenger volumes have grown by up to performance as the division has absorbed 40% on individual routes, we will introduce 12m of additional costs comprising 4m a fifth park & ride site in partnership with in National Insurance charges and 8m the City Council in 2004.
In other areas, we of additional pension contributions.
have seen increases on individual Quality The absorption of these additional costs, Partnership routes of up to 28% in Essex, combined with a small increase in volume 20% in Manchester and 13% in Glasgow.
1% and maintaining bus fares at around the level of inflation, has resulted in a fall in We continue to work closely with South operating margin to 12.3% 2003: 13.0%.
and West Yorkshire Passenger Transport 10 Chief Executives review continued Executives and the district councils to In April 2003 we established a new base in develop the Yorkshire Bus Initiative.
North Staffordshire, with 20 new buses, to We have already provided 86 new buses provide a bespoke bus replacement service to upgrade services in Sheffield and Leeds, to support the West Coast Main Line rail and we hope to introduce the first pilot upgrade works.
We plan to develop further projects for our new concept vehicle during contracted bus services in 2004 05.
In Sheffield we have signed a draft Statutory Quality Partnership Yellow School Bus agreement for bus services in the north of We continue to develop our school bus the city, under which the local authority will pilot projects and now have seven improve the public transport infrastructure programmes across the UK.
We were and we will introduce new vehicles and encouraged by the Transport Select Aircoach Express Coaches in Dublin improved levels of service and reliability.
Committees Report on school transport It is through programmes like these that which proposed a large-scale yellow bus we will be able to develop cost effective trial to assess its potential impact on modal urban transport solutions that bring real shift.
We have ordered a further 26 new improvements to the travelling public.
buses for further projects in 2004.
During the year, we have focused on Investment building loyalty with various customer Capital expenditure has been focused on groups such as students and commuters areas of high passenger growth in major through targeted campaigns.
Improved urban centres such as Sheffield and Leeds.
point of sale marketing material also helped During the year 65m was spent on new, to increase sales of daily, weekly and low-floor, easy access vehicles and 25m monthly season tickets which encourage has been spent on new depots, principally customer loyalty and speed up boarding in London, Glasgow and Bolton.
December 2003 we completed the Bendy bus in London acquisition of a 90% stakeholding in Rural operations Aircoach, the leading operator of express Rural operations represent less than coaches between Dublin city centre and 20% of our business.
We welcome the the airport and contracted services for Governments new Kickstart initiative which airport car parks.
We believe this puts us will enable us to develop more marginal in a good position to benefit from the services where car ownership and forthcoming liberalisation of the Irish congestion is increasing and passenger transport market.
In Devon and Cornwall we have carried out a complete Operational performance review of our route structure with the As part of our continued drive to control objective of improving frequencies on the costs and reduce overheads we have higher-demand corridors.
In many rural reorganised our divisional management areas we operate local authority contracts structure and are undertaking a thorough to provide socially necessary services.
We have In Wales, where the Welsh Assembly already made good progress in improving Government has introduced free travel for our recruitment methods which resulted senior citizens, we have provided new in a reduction in driver shortages at the buses as a response to the increase in year end.
11 We continue to achieve useful cost savings non-franchised, open access intercity across a range of goods and services passenger train operator and we provide through centralised purchasing procedures.
rail freight services through GB Railfreight.
Accounting functions have also been rationalised and overhead costs reduced Results through the opening, earlier in the year, of Turnover in the Groups rail division was the Shared Service Accounting Centre in 945.0m 2003: 842.3m and operating Aberdeen.
This is a strong result as it reflects the combined Throughout the year we have worked impact of the reduction in subsidy on First closely and productively with staff, trade Great Western and the increase in unions and local management to reform franchise payments on First Great Eastern First Gr First Great W eat We ester stern Adelante train at Paddington n Adelante train at Paddington pension provision within our UK bus totalling 17m, as well as increased companies.
The varied plans inherited from National Insurance and pension costs previous owners are being combined to of 3m.
reduce administration and funding costs, introduce risk sharing and produce Franchise changes substantial savings, as well as improving During the year we were successful in investment performance.
A wider range winning two out of the three franchises of savings plans is also now offered to for which we submitted bids.
now shortlisted for all four franchises in the current round Northern, ScotRail, Outlook UK Bus Integrated Kent and InterCity East Coast, The results of congestion charging in demonstrating that we have a long-term terms of modal shift, reduced congestion role to play in the UK rail industry.
The and improved environment have been division continues to work closely with the unprecedented.
We believe that the Strategic Rail Authority SRA and Network GB Railfreight Class 56 locomotive London experience demonstrates what Rail.
In addition we were pleased that the can be achieved to improve traffic flow in provisional findings of the Competition our major towns and cities, and the role Commission would allow us to proceed that buses can play in providing an with our bid for ScotRail, subject to mutual alternative to private motoring.
We look agreement of behavioural undertakings forward to developing further bus priority principally concerning a small number and route enhancement projects with of individual bus routes in Scotland.
We will continue to focus on growing On 1 February 2004 we commenced passenger volumes, as well as further operation of the new TransPennine Express developing our contracted bus business, franchise with our partner Keolis.
The whilst targeting continued cost control franchise, which consists of intercity and process improvements.
services between the North West and North East of England, runs for a period of eight years with an option to extend for a UK Rail further five years.
Operations have started The rail division operates passenger and well and we are very encouraged by freight services in the UK.
Passenger rail passenger volumes, which are running franchises operated during the year ahead of expectations in the first two consisted of First Great Western, First months.
We have already ordered a 260m Great Eastern, First North Western, Anglia fleet of new trains and contracted for two and TransPennine Express.
Hull Trains is a 12 Chief Executives review continued new maintenance depots that will greatly a joint control room with Network Rail improve the service offered to passengers at Swindon which has enabled us to in the region.
co-ordinate and simplify train operations in the Great Western zone.
This model can On 1 April 2004 we commenced operation be rolled out to deliver improved integration of suburban services from London across other parts of the railway network.
Paddington in a new franchise branded as First Great Western Link.
This new Acquisitions franchise will run for two years and allow us Through our acquisition of GB Railways to offer significant benefits to passengers we acquired GB Railfreight GBRf and through the integration of services into Hull Trains.
Paddington ahead of the creation of the New Class 185 trains ordered for TransPennine Express Franchise Greater Western franchise in 2006.
From Hull Trains December 2004, a new integrated Hull Trains is a non-franchised, open timetable will offer an 18% increase in access InterCity train company operating capacity on suburban trains.
In addition, between London Kings Cross and Hull.
services to Oxford and the Cotswolds will It now carries 330,000 passengers per benefit from new InterCity quality 125 mph year with four direct services from London trains and there will be improved journey to Hull each weekday.
The company has times to Devon and Cornwall.
upgraded its fleet of class 170 multiple units and has placed an order for four new During the year we continued to operate four-car class 222 1 Bombardier 125 mph First North Western on behalf of the SRA.
trains, which will reduce the journey time This franchise will become part of the new by approximately 15 minutes, when they Northern franchise later in 2004. enter service in 2005 and is expected to further increase patronage on this corridor.
Operational performance Passenger income on First Great Western GB Railfreight continues to show encouraging growth The UK rail freight market is estimated to of 8%.
Operational performance has been be worth some 725m per annum and we at its highest level since 2000 with delay have been encouraged by the continued minutes attributable to us reduced by expansion of GBRf.
The company was 24% in the period.
Passenger complaints created in 2000 and has grown rapidly by during the year are also significantly down.
offering a high level of service developed Improvements in our maintenance systems through a flexible business model.
GBRf on High Speed Trains have resulted in the now provides freight services for customers best availability for these units that we have such as Network Rail, British Gypsum and ever experienced.
The reliability of the new Medite Shipping Company Limited.
During Adelante units has also improved.
A new the year the company has won new platform has been opened at Swindon on contracts from Network Rail for haulage, the Great Western main line, funded jointly as well as a contract for the operation and by the SRA, Network Rail and First Great management of the infrastructure owners Western, which has simplified train Whitemoor depot in Cambridgeshire.
operations through the station and improved In addition it has started new intermodal operating reliability.
Network Rail is making services from Felixstowe, which are used further improvements to the infrastructure in by, amongst others, ASDA for the transport the Thames Valley area and Cornwall, which of their goods to the Midlands.
GBRf has will improve train running.
We have opened ordered 93 container flat wagons with 13 a capital value of over 4m to support National Vocational Qualification programme these new contracts.
We believe that the continues to grow with 13% of the rail freight market offers further growth workforce now qualified and a further opportunities for the Group.
The number of Workplace Learning Schemes Outlook UK Rail has increased to 29 which means that over We have an active programme of new 10% of staff have access to workplace franchise bids under way which offer learning.
This will increase to 15% with excellent prospects for the future growth the opening of new centres in 2004 05. of the division and, in addition, we are expanding our rail freight activities.
We Environment and Community welcome the opportunity to be involved in Our environmental management framework Zero-emission hydrogen-powered bus in London the Governments Rail Review and remain is now well established and all our very optimistic about the role we can play companies and depots are audited in the future of the UKs railways.
against the requirements of the Group environmental management system.
Staff We have extended our supplier audit I would like to thank all our staff for their programme to include more companies, as continued commitment to the Group.
An increasing number We place high importance on the views of our companies and divisions are now and concerns of our workforce.
Our fourth developing management systems in line employee satisfaction survey showed with ISO14001.
improvements in performance in all ten areas covered by the survey and an overall We are very encouraged by the continued increase in satisfaction since the last reduction in energy usage in our depots.
We are actively addressing areas For example, water usage fell by 8% and of concern which were highlighted by the energy consumption by 10.5% within the Future Forests tree-planting initiative survey and continue to feed back actions bus division alone, as a result of local and progress to staff.
depot initiatives and incentives for staff.
In terms of waste, the bus operating Retention and recruitment of high quality companies reduced the overall general staff is a key issue within our industry.
The waste arising by 7% and increased Group has become a Recruitment Partner recycling by 16%.
of Choice nationally with JobCentre Plus which will provide wider geographic In the UK, we were pleased to support coverage of job opportunities in the Group.
Future Forests a carbon neutral tree The Group has also become an Age planting initiative to offset CO2 emissions.
Positive Champion in particular reflecting Our US operations are reducing emissions our newly launched Flexible Decade of through investment in new engines and Retirement programme which provides emission control technology.
our people with the opportunity to work beyond normal retirement age, but with In recognition of our commitment to the flexible pension and working hour environment we were delighted to receive arrangements.
the following awards during the year: the Green Apple Award, for the third year We continue to encourage our staff to running, the Bus Industry Award for further their development and progress Environmental Achievement and the their careers within the Group.
Our Network Rail Environmental Award, for 14 Chief Executives review continued the second time in three years.
In addition we were very pleased to be included in the top 100 Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index.
During the year the Group and its staff in the UK and North America have continued to support a number of local and national charities.
Further details of all these activities can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Report which is published separately and is available on our website First Great Western Driver Simulator Training Facility www.
Group outlook I look forward to continued growth in North America where we have delivered five years of consistent profit growth.
The business has highly dependable revenue streams of which approximately 80% are covered by medium-term contracts.
In UK Rail we are well positioned to benefit from rail re-franchising, having been shortlisted for all four franchises in the current round.
In UK Bus we are seeing further growth in our London business and other urban areas and continue to focus on cost control First-sponsored ARCHIE Bus in Aberdeen.
Aberdeen Royal and process improvements.
The Groups Childrens Hospital is one of the charitable causes which the Company supported during the year strong free cash flows will continue to be used to invest in the business, increase dividends and buy back shares while maintaining a strong balance sheet.
With on average 250m of borrowing headroom, the Group is in a strong financial position to maximise opportunities for growth.
I am extremely confident about our future prospects.
Trading in the new financial year has started well and is in line with our expectations.
