Chief Executives review demand in most of the Groups major Last year as the incoming markets is depressed, significantly impacting operating performance Chief Executive my review No material improvement in underlying demand was seen during the period.
Lifting Products and Truth window referred to three factors which hardware were the most robust operations:Turbogenerators showed some increase in order intake, with the majority contributed to the extremely of other businesses experiencing relatively stable demand.
However, Logistex continued to suffer a declining trend in challenging situation facing orders and sales, albeit at a much slower rate than over the last two years.
Generally turnover levels reflected market the Group and the priorities trends, with existing strong market positions being maintained in most businesses.
I would The results for the year reflect this difficult operating like to take this opportunity environment together with the impact of the weakening US dollar.
to chart progress and review Turnover declined 7.4% to 1,345.1 million generating an underlying operating profit of 96.9 million compared the outlook and objectives with 103.9 million in the previous year.
This profit was after adopting FRS 17 and included an underlying improvement of for the new financial year.
0.5 million offset by a 7.5 million adverse impact of foreign currency translation.
The marginal improvement in operating profits resulted from continued cost reduction and efficiency improvements despite the impact of further volume reductions.
After goodwill amortisation of 29.8 million, net exceptional charges of 54.7 million and net interest payable of 23.3 million, the loss before tax was 17.3 million and after tax the adjusted earnings per share were 8.7p.
1 2 1 Windfarm Bridon Locked Neudorf in Coil ropes were Austria, installed used to support with II DeWind D8 the innovative 2MW turbines Millennium that were footbridge across commissioned in the Thames in 2004 and which London.
formed part of a major project in Austria that delivered 30 DeWind turbines.
2 04 FKI plc Annual report 2004 acquisitions to build a world leading materials handling business have put pressure on the balance sheet The continued emphasis on strong cash management reduced the Groups net debt from 498.4 million at 31 March 2003 to 349.1 million at 31 March 2004.
Operating cash flow amounted to 105.0 million, equivalent to 108% of the underlying operating profit, the close out of interest rate swaps netted 45.3 million and currency translation differences mainly due to the weaker US dollar compared with 31 March 2003 rates, reduced the closing debt by 56.8 million.
Following the strategic review, the closure of some operations has resulted in further properties being no longer required and all surplus property will be turned progressively into cash.
During the year 19.6 million was realised from sales of sites with a net book value of 5.7 million and further disposals of surplus property have been targeted for future years which should realise over 40 million of proceeds.
All original banking covenant ratios were met during the year and the Group retained its investment grade rating.
Operating cash generation and forecast business and property sales should further improve the situation during the new financial year.
Paul Heiden declining operating and share price performance Chief Executive have led to questions over Group strategy A key objective for the year was to publish a full strategic review of the Groups operations.
The review followed detailed analysis and challenge of the strategies of the individual business units this being the level at which strategy is needed to deal with competitive pressures on a daily basis.
05 FKI plc Annual report 2004 Chief Executives review The individual business units were reviewed against three As part of the review, the closure of eight loss-making activities criteria: and the impairment of some operating assets was outlined.
The total exceptional cost of these actions was estimated at 1. macro backdrop to the industries served and marketplaces 68 million of which 57.6 million has been charged in in which they operate: the year and the remainder will be charged in 2004 05.
2. the business units position in the marketplaces: and The cash cost of these steps is forecast to be 19 million, most of which will be incurred in 2004 05.
The targeted 3. the opportunities to sustain and grow Return on Invested sale of four businesses, with turnover of c. 50 million, was Capital ROIC.
also announced, together with a number of property sales.
At the Group level, various alternative portfolio strategies Some of the strategic actions announced have been completed were reviewed.
It was concluded that FKI will continue to but most will be implemented during the year ending be a diversified engineering group but with a more proactive 31 March 2005. approach to portfolio and asset management generally than A number of improvements have been made to the in previous years.
The Group will focus resources in the first management of the business to support the achievement instance in the development of the five Major and three of the strategic objectives: Emerging Businesses which account for approximately 70%80% of FKIs turnover, profits and assets.
the size and responsibilities of the executive team have been changed to flatten the management structure and so shorten The remaining 15 businesses will continue to be evaluated lines of communication, improving cost-effectiveness and and will receive investment that will allow them to become broadening the skill base: a Major or Emerging Business: be sold to a third party who values the business more highly than FKI: or be run for cash.
revised annual and long-term incentive plans are being introduced to reflect the emphasis on return on invested capital and achievement of individual objectives: and a systematic risk management process to positively identify, assess, treat and manage risks that either threaten the Groups resources or provide beneficial opportunities has been implemented.
Five Major Businesses Shared characteristics Business Products Market position Bridon Steel wire ropes World Top 3 Crosby Lifting components Global leader 1.
Market leading positions Truth Hardware Hardware for windows, North American No.
High barriers to entry including patio, storm and 3.
Good ROIC throughout Wright Products prime doors the cycle 4.
Unexploited growth Brush Turbogenerator Turbogenerators for Strong global position opportunities Division power generation FKI Logistex Automated material World Top 3 handling systems Three Emerging Businesses Shared characteristics Business Products Market position Bristol Babcock SCADA and measurement and Strong niche position 1.
Strong growth opportunities control systems for gas 2.
Potential for good returns and water industry 3.
Proprietary products FKI Switchgear Magnetic actuators Innovative, niche player 4.
Robust business models and switchgear 5.
Appropriate risk return profile DeWind Wind turbines Small, growing company 6.
Potential to become supported by Group a Major Business electrical engineering 06 FKI plc Annual report 2004 Chief Executives review 1 Outlook and objectives FKI Logistex zero pressure The economic backdrop to current trading looks more accumulation conveyor used to encouraging and business confidence appears somewhat gently queue improved.
The outlook for Lifting Products and Services pallets of empty bottles in a soft remains robust while Energy Technology should benefit from drink facility.
increased order levels in Turbogenerators.
Independent forecasts predict a reduction of new housing starts in North America which would impact Hardware but no evidence of decline has been seen during the first quarter of the calendar year.
Due to the relatively long lead time between customer specification and deliveries in the Groups capital goods businesses, especially Logistex, improvements in financial results will lag any increase in customer demand.
Greater stability in FKIs markets and the benefit of the cost reduction actions taken during the year, should result in some improvement in performance in 2004 05.
However, results will continue to be influenced by any fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
We will continue to manage the operations with a clear and detailed operating focus, and will be ready to respond to increased demand as it occurs.
Continued strong cash generation and further reduction in net debt remain priorities and these should enable the Group to consider appropriate investment and acquisition opportunities to develop its activities.
Paul Heiden Chief Executive 1 07 FKI plc Annual report 2004 Chief Executives review
