Group Chief Executives Statement Review of Business Activities.
2004 was a year of solid financial performance coupled with significant achievement in three key strategic and long-term areas: n Good progress was made on the new Stora Enso distribution centre at Tilbury with a start date of July 2005: n The completion of our first overseas investment in the key growth area of the Baltic: and n The granting of SPG for the LDDF effectively rezoning the Port of Leith for mixed-use development.
The underlying ports operating profit amounted to 34.7m, up 2.4% from 33.9m in 2003 as we forecast.
There was a significant improvement in ports trading in the second half of the year.
Ports operating profits pre-exceptionals grew by 8% in the second half of 2004 compared with 2003.
The property operating profit before exceptionals amounted to 25.2m, up 11% on the equivalent figure in 2003.
12 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 An improvement in underlying profitability was achieved PORTS.
despite major relocations at the Port of Tilbury as part of the Stora Enso project and disruption at the Port of Grangemouth as part of the expansion of its container compound capacity.
At the same time, the ports business continued to increase operating efficiencies which helped to counterbalance lower piped cargo tonnages.
It was encouraging that, despite the lower Tilbury Highlights volumes of piped cargo, the gross margin Tilbury produced another good performance within the ports division, excluding Tilbury in 2004.
The total tonnage handled amounted Container Services TCS and before to 7.8 million tonnes, up 4% on 2003, while Significant number of new exceptional items, remained at the same business performance improvement was and re-negotiated contracts level as 2003. substantially greater.
Within the different asset areas, there were notable increases in the at Tilbury Throughout the Group, a large number of new financial performance from the Conventional and re-negotiated contracts were concluded, asset area and Short Sea Containers.
In More stable outlook for particularly at Tilbury.
The container operations particular, short sea boxes increased by 11%.
within Tilbury and Grangemouth showed double In January 2005, we announced a new five year marine terminal tonnages digit growth: the ro-ro traffic at Rosyth also contract with Hyundai who will operate from an increased substantially.
enlarged facility within the Fortress Distribution Park to facilitate their growing volumes and land Marine module of IPOS In Scotland, the full year benefit was taken from requirements.
Grimaldi Lines have recently implemented.
the centralisation of the marine function in 2003 signed a new five year contract for their South with the further benefit to come in 2005 from American and West African services.
Bunge the 2004 review of the manpower requirements signed a new five year agreement for the in the towage fleet.
The new ten year agreement with UPM Wood, for an import The marine module of the Integrated Port and distribution facility, commenced operations Operating System IPOS was implemented in July 2004. in the first half of the year.
The export cargo module went live in Tilbury in September.
Our associated company, TCS, achieved a result The remainder of the new system will be only marginally below that of 2003 despite a implemented in 2005, after which we would poor start to the year.
New business won in the expect to achieve additional efficiencies second half of the year Eurosal NCS improved in the ports operations and further improve the position significantly.
There was a 12% levels of service performance to customers.
increase in box numbers which reached 260,000 boxes.
The reduction in ancillary revenue in the first half was not made up in the second half and this restrained the profits in the year.
TCS recently announced that they have won two new services Hamburg Sud and CSAV which should enable good progress to be made in 2005.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 13 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Scottish Ports and Marine Grangemouth Grangemouth.
The major volume growth drivers in Scotland 2004 saw the sixth consecutive year of continued to be the unitised business where container growth at Grangemouth with a Grangemouths development as an intermodal there was a 22% increase in the number of 13% increase in throughput at 125,000 boxes, logistics hub will continue with the intention freight units carried on the ferry service further strengthening Grangemouths position of increasing the number of container trains between Rosyth and Zeebrugge and a 13% as Scotlands leading port.
Construction work thereby improving further operational increase in the throughput of containers at on the container compound during 2004 productivity and efficiency.
Dry cargo tonnages increased caused significant disruption to the flow of by 7% at 4.9 million tonnes.
Piped cargo activity containers at Grangemouth which in turn led throughout the Firth of Forth was at its lowest to higher operational costs.
The contractors level for five years, particularly at Hound Point.
are now off site and the new straddle carriers are performing well.
We are investing further in The total tonnage in Scotland amounted to a new container crane to increase our efficiency 36.1 million tonnes compared with 39.4 million and speed up the turnaround time of the tonnes in 2003.
Piped cargo at the ports fell vessels.
We are also investigating the possibility by 10%, principally at Grangemouth where BP of increasing the number of container trains tonnages fell by 5% and third party business which come into the port on a regular basis.
The latter is believed to have resulted It is therefore likely that further investment will from BP taking a more aggressive position be made in the container operations in the in the Scottish market place.
The tonnages next few years to facilitate further growth and declined by over 11% at Hound Point where the improve operational productivity and efficiency.
total tonnage for 2004 amounted to 20.9 million The new 10,000 sq.
m. warehouse which was tonnes.
Volumes at Hound Point are not opened at the beginning of 2004 won a three expected to increase this year.
However, with year contract from GE Plastics.
With new the Buzzard Field due to come on stream racking recently installed, we are confident that in the fourth quarter of 2006, we expect an further business will be won during the course improvement from that date.
The Braefoot Bay of this year.
New contracts have also been tonnage reduced from 3.2 million tonnes to concluded to increase dry cargo tonnages in 3 million tonnes, a reduction of 6%.
In large respect of aggregates, timber and pulp.
measure, this was due to production platform closures in the North Sea affecting the flow of Rosyth and Fife Ports product through the Shell jetty.
In addition, a fire The Superfast Rosyth to Zeebrugge ferry at the Exxon facility shut down production for service continued its growth in traffic year on the last six weeks of the year.
More positively, year albeit that the number of calls made in the Shell Golden Eye contract commenced 2004 was down 6% because of extended in the last quarter of 2004: subject to any maintenance dry docking at the beginning production disruption in 2005, it is expected of the year.
The total number of freight units that the Braefoot Bay tonnages will improve moved increased by 22% to just over 41,000 significantly this year.
Passenger numbers were up by an average of 5% per ship call.
There was also a We are also discussing, in detail, the reasonable increase in timber and plasterboard implementation of ship to ship transfer services tonnages.
The other Fife Ports maintained their in the Firth of Forth which, subject to the traffic tonnages at the same level as 2003 with satisfactory completion of a regulatory review, timber being the predominant commodity.
could significantly increase piped cargo tonnages.
14 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 Leith Russian business will increase substantially as Rosyth.
The total throughput amounted to 1.1 million a result of the availability of new quay areas tonnes, down 27% compared with 2003. and equipment at Litke Bay.
Strategically, the Oceaneering continue to utilise Rosyths prime The total annual tonnage for Bredero Shaw Russian container market is showing strong location and comprehensive links to service amounted to 164,000 tonnes compared with growth and both Kotka and St. Petersburg are its global engineered services in marine and 352,000 tonnes in 2003.
The outlook for 2005 is well placed to benefit.
This modest investment other harsh environments.
significantly improved and should see Bredero represents our first expansion overseas in a Shaw increase their tonnages substantially.
geographical area where our ports have long A new contract has been concluded with established customer connections.
North British Distillers which should improve agricultural tonnages.
There are ongoing Management Information Systems discussions with customers which may lead The marine module of the new IPOS system to a reasonable prospect of Leith handling was successfully implemented in Scotland significant tonnages of coal in 2005. and Tilbury during the first half of 2004 with an interim phase of the container module going live Dundee in August in Scotland.
The export cargo module After a difficult year in 2003, Dundee increased went live at Tilbury in September.
The import its dry cargo tonnages by 5% with paper and cargo module is programmed to commence pulp tonnages increasing by 28% to reach this month with the final container module due 169,000 tonnes.
Agripod tonnages were also to go live in the second half of this year.
up by 6%, however, timber and salt tonnages were lower.
With the benefit of a more efficient International Ship and Port Facility cost base, there was a good improvement in Security Code the financial performance.
Towards the end All commercial port facilities are required to of the year, new contracts were concluded comply with the International Ship and Port with Aquatech and Stolt Offshore which should Facility Security Code ISPS.
The ISPS boost revenues from the North Sea oil sector.
legislation was passed through the International Maritime Organisation, with each Government Multi-Link Terminals Limited being responsible for its own implementation by We announced in December that Forth Ports 1st July 2004.
This tight timetable required all was making a 20m investment in MLT, an operational port areas to be examined from a Irish company which operates three container security perspective.
Following this assessment, terminals in Helsinki and Kotka in Finland and a Port Facility Security Plan was produced for Litke Bay in St. Petersburg, Russia.
Our joint each port or facility within a port for approval by venture partner is Container Finance Limited the Department for Transport.
Each of the ports Oy, part of the Containerships Shipping Line within the Group was approved prior to the of Finland which has been a customer of Forth deadline of 1st July.
All our facilities are compliant Ports for over eight years at the Port of Tilbury.
with the ISPS code and the enabling UK and The investment will enable MLT to provide EU legislation.
This has, however, required the enhanced container terminal operations and Group to make a significant capital investment additional capacity at Kotka and St. Petersburg.
in order to comply with the code and this, MLT has already won new business at Kotka together with increased security staffing costs, and is actively engaged in discussions which resulted in a separate charge being levied on are expected to lead to new customers at our customers to defray the costs.
At present, two thirds of the existing business is through Finland and one third through Russia although it is expected that, over the course of the next few years, the ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 15 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Property profits grew for the fifth year in succession PROPERTY.
to reach an operating profit level of 25.2m in 2004 compared with 22.7m in 2003, an increase of 11%.
This increase was achieved at a time of slowing growth in the property market in Edinburgh.
The two main themes for 2004 were the The SPG approval will enable us to move Highlights requirement to increase the pace of the forward positively in the light of more detailed infrastructure development at Western Harbour considerations of phasing and its relationship to and Granton and to consider the longer term use infrastructure costs.
The next stage is likely to LDDF has increased of the assets which the Group has within the be a series of outline planning applications for opportunity to create Port of Leith.
The first stage of the sheet piling different aspects of the development together around the proposed new marina at Granton with the evolution of detailed urban design long-term value was finished together with the completion of a guides as sites are proposed for residential and central road to open up the various plots at commercial development.
The requirement for the construction of the feature canal was also completed by the We launched our new brand Edinburgh to accommodate and end of the year.
Similar infrastructure activity Forthside on 3rd March 2005.
The vision maximise housing content took place at Western Harbour.
behind Edinburgh Forthside is to complete the picture for Edinburgh providing a new maritime The other major initiative progressed during quarter of the City which reinforces its status as Continuing demand to 2004 related to the LDDF.
Together with our a major European Capital City.
It will unite our consultants, we engaged with the planning three major development areas Western be matched by supply officials and the elected politicians to progress Harbour, Granton and Port of Leith under one from specific sites the LDDF through the various required stages.
We are pleased to say that Following extensive discussions, presentations the launch has been positively received.
and consultation, the LDDF document was Edinburgh Forthside presented to the Planning Committee on 10th The first of the LDDF sites, Waterfront Plaza, brand launched February 2005 which resulted in the LDDF being which is located between the Scottish Executive approved and adopted by the City Council as building at Victoria Quay and the Ocean Terminal SPG.
This approval effectively rezones the dock Shopping Centre, is already the subject of an Ocean Terminal estate from industrial use to mixed-use for up outline planning application for residential and to 18,000 housing units, extensive retail leisure commercial use.
A more detailed urban design valuation increased.
and commercial space, together with areas guide for the site is also being evolved as set aside for cultural activities, public spaces this will allow its commercial release and or and education requirements.
We already have a number of considering how to proceed in the light of the parties interested in both the residential and SPG status in developing a long-term sustainable commercial components within the site.
Given property business which will maximise value for the timescale for discussion and consultation on our shareholders.
the site, and the requirement to finalise a Section 75 agreement with the Council, it is possible that the timing of release of the site commercially may be delayed beyond December 2005.
The other significant property transaction expected in 2005 is the sale of the supermarket site to Asda.
Reasonable progress has been made regarding the design of the supermarket and its access arrangements and we are hopeful that a positive planning determination can be made in the course of this year.
16 16 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 We are also at an advanced stage of making Good trading progress was maintained at the Leith.
changes to the masterplan at Granton Harbour Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre with the with an amended urban design guide.
We addition of New Look, Esprit, Vision Express Forth Ports have worked closely with believe that this will improve the quality of the and Faith Shoes.
Footfall was up by 34% year local residents in evolving a rich mix scheme and significantly increase the housing on year.
Although the retail market continues to of maritime events and development as opposed to the flatted content.
This is likely be difficult, several of our tenants have shown content of the citys new waterfront.
to lead to an increase in infrastructure costs, good increases in levels of trading.
Good which we believe will be more than covered by progress was made last year and we expect to an increase in value.
announce several more lettings during the course of 2005.
Currently 90% of the floorspace During 2004, our strategy changed to offering has been let or is under offer.
At the end of the smaller residential plots to the market, with an year, we were successful in having over 3,000 increased housing content which reflects more sq.
m. of the remaining floor space, which was interest in building housing units such as previously zoned for leisure, rezoned for retail townhouses or mews houses as opposed to use.
A large part of this floorspace is currently flats.
We have therefore been able to cater for configured in three large units which will require this change in interest with many of the plots to be subdivided, however, we are hopeful that sold in 2004 offering both flats and houses.
part of this floorspace will be rented by the end of the year.
The total number of units sold was 889 with the average sales revenue per unit increasing to With the increase in the number of tenants over 49,000 compared with 41,000 in 2003. trading within the shopping centre, the The average increase in unit revenue reflects the increased footfall and with an improvement fact that more units were sold in 2004 at Western in yields on shopping centre investments, the Harbour than Granton similar to 2002 and the Directors, having taken advice from Drivers mix of sales last year reflected the increased Jonas, Chartered Surveyors, have continued demand for townhouses mews houses.
to take a prudent view of the centres carrying value at a valuation of 139.4m, which We also sold three investment properties in 2004 has resulted in the write back in full of the which realised a gain of 1.2m, taking advantage temporary diminution of 7.3m together with an of improving property investment yields.
increase in value of 5m the Groups share.
There is an overall increase in the value of In 2004, most of our remaining housing joint Ocean Terminal of 25m.
We continue to ventures with AWG were completed.
In the case hold the shopping centre for the long-term of the Newhaven Two Joint Venture, we acquired to maximise growth in value.
AWGs shares in that company during 2003 and sold off one third of the land last year.
At City Quay Dundee, the final phase of the existing development was completed, leaving the remaining land for phases 4 and 5 to be developed.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 17 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Safety Organic growth in the ports business will Reported Accidents 2004 2003 Reduction % The total number of reported accidents for continue.
There are a number of opportunities the Group during 2004 showed reductions to develop the business and capitalise on the Total number of as illustrated in this table.
anticipated growth in traffic within our existing accidents 193 225 14.2 locations.
We are currently examining several Total number of These reductions are well ahead of the projects which could increase our port revenue reportable accidents 47 57 17.5 target agreed by the Port Skills and Safety subject to the necessary capital expenditure Organisation the umbrella body of the being approved.
We will continue to explore any Number 3 day lost time 42 47 10.6 UK Ports Industry with the Government.
opportunities to grow our ports business either by development or acquisition.
Number of major The Group continues its total commitment injuries 3 10 70.0 to the continuous improvement to its safety SPG status for the LDDF land is an Number of fatal management performance and has agreed important platform for the enhancement of accidents 0 1 100.0 with the Health and Safety Executive further the long-term value of our property assets areas of concentrated attention.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR In the current year, trading within the ports Forth Ports PLC is a long-term sustainable division is in line with our expectations and has business which makes a substantial shown a significant improvement over the first contribution to the environment and to the two months of 2004.
We expect good growth in regeneration of the communities within which our ports business for 2005 although this will it operates.
There are a great many examples occur more in the second half given the start of this in action throughout the Group and date for the Stora Enso contract.
The property some of these are explained in more detail in division will again have its usual quiet first half the CSR section of the Report, on page 26. with most of the sales being generated in the second half of the year.
As in 2004, sales will be Summary dependent on achieving various planning The first half of the year in the ports business approvals: if planning is delayed, this will affect was challenging, however, the anticipated the timing of the property profits but not the significant improvement in the second half of the realisation of the property values.
year resulted in a modest improvement in port operating profits.
Given the reduction in revenue We have confidence in the long-term future of from the lower piped cargo tonnages, offset by the business.
2005 should be another year of a good financial performance from most asset successful progress.
areas at Tilbury, the result was encouraging.
With the addition of the 11% increase in profit from the property division, the result, at the operating profit level, was satisfactory.
This result was achieved whilst at the same time managing the relocation Charles Hammond of over one third of Tilburys business and a Group Chief Executive significant disruption to the container business at Grangemouth.
With the benefit of the Stora Enso 21st March 2005 contract coming on stream in July 2005 and increased ro-ro and container traffic in Scotland, we look forward to good levels of growth for the medium and long-term in the ports business.
In addition, the investment in MLT should start to be earnings enhancing in 2006.
