10 Group 4 Securicor ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Chief Executives Overview There is no doubt that 2004 proved to be an interesting and challenging year in which our abilities in a number of key commercial areas were put to the test.
On 2 February 2004 we announced that Group 4 Falck A S and Securicor plc were in merger talks which would result in the creation of Group 4 Securicor.
As a result of the transaction we would provide We exited 2004 slightly ahead of our integration and Creating Group 4 Securicor consolidation in a number of key markets which would synergy delivery plan and remain confident that we will During the period between the announcement and enable us to deliver on our internal cost synergies.
achieve the majority of our published synergy target of completion of the merger, a vast amount of work 30 million per annum in 2005. was undertaken.
By applying the Group 4 Falck security systems An integration office was established which enabled expertise across the wider geographic footprint, we There remain a few geographic gaps in our global us to plan the integration of the organisations in the would be better placed to provide integrated security footprint, namely Iberia, Latin America and Australia.
utmost detail without sharing sensitive customer data solutions in line with future demand.
We aim to fill these gaps in the future through strategic, value-enhancing acquisitions.
Synergy benefits resulting from the merger were By using the expertise of Securicors market-leading carefully identified, reviewed and refined through our cash services businesses across the wider group, we Overall we have performed strongly in 2004, despite internal processes and an independent external audit would improve performance and drive growth as well the potential distractions of the merger and the Key positions within the organisation were defined as make substantial cost savings.
There are still some and individuals to take up those roles, throughout challenges ahead, but there are also some great Our combined platform across emerging markets the businesses and at board level, were identified opportunities for us to continue to develop our global provided us with a unique market position through and agreed position as a leading provider of security solutions.
which we would be able to support the growing The merger detail was presented to the European needs of our international customer base.
Commission and conditions for approval of the Delivering on our promises transaction were agreed Delivery of our targeted 30 million of synergy benefits On 14 March 2005 we announced that the CEO would provide a significant margin improvement.
succession, which we had planned during the merger GSL, Group 4 Falcks outsourcing business, was process, would take place at the end of June when I divested will step down from the Board of Group 4 Securicor Facing up to our challenges Falck A S, Group 4 Falcks safety business, was and Nick Buckles will take over as CEO.
All of the preparation which took place during the fide-merged and listed separately on the Copenhagen period after the initial merger announcement was Stock Exchange When I look back, I am proud of what we have essential in enabling us to achieve the merger plan achieved in a very short space of time through the The relevant shareholder approvals were obtained and to focus on customer needs during a period commitment and hard work of everyone in the to enable the transaction to be completed of significant change.
Looking to the future, I am certain that Extensive employee communications programmes I am pleased to report that our customer retention Nick and the management team have the experience, were established to ensure that staff were kept remained high during 2004 as we concentrated on capability and determination to deliver on our informed during every stage of the process customer service and keeping our customers informed promises and we can look forward to the remainder Group 4 Securicor was created throughout the process.
of 2005 and beyond with high expectations and the confidence that the organisation will achieve its goals.
At the same time we continued to focus on the key The workforce has remained highly motivated and we business issues to ensure that we entered into the have made good progress in building on our existing Ive enjoyed my time in the security industry and merger in the best possible condition.
strong relationships with employees and their specifically as CEO of Group 4 Falck and then Group representatives.
I know that the business is in safe hands Commitment to stakeholders and wish my colleagues all the very best for the future.
We were pleased to have achieved the divestment of When Group 4 Securicor was established, there were a the Securicor business in Luxembourg and the Group number of key commitments made to our stakeholders: 4 Falck cash services business in Scotland, which was The merger would create a global leader in the one of the conditions of the merger approval from provision of security services our organisation the European Commission.
We hope to conclude the operates in more than 100 countries, a geographic divestment of the Group 4 Dutch security business, Lars Nrby Johansen footprint which is unrivalled in our industry.
another European Commission requirement, during Chief Executive Officer the first half of 2005.
11 Unrivalled geographic footprint Our customer retention remained high during 2004 as we concentrated on customer service and keeping our customers informed throughout the integration process.
Lars Nrby Johansen Chief Executive officer
