CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Transforming GKN Our ability to produce complex composite structures has attracted funding The strategic development of GKN gathered pace in 2004. from the UK Department of Trade & Industry and South East Development Agency, who are helping establish GKNs Advanced Composite Facility The disposal of our share of AgustaWestland transformed our balance in the UK.
The facility will be operational this year and will accelerate our sheet, taking control of Tochigi Fuji Sangyo of Japan accelerated our progress in pioneering aerospace composite applications.
We value the move into higher-value automotive systems, we set in train a global plan Governments support.
to deploy more production assets in high-growth, low-cost economies and we won positions on the worlds major new aircraft programmes.
The operating and financial review on pages 21 to 30 details the significant challenges we faced during the year from rising raw material The AgustaWestland effect and energy costs.
The creditable results we achieved in 2004 owe much When we announced the agreement to sell our 50% stake in to the skill, commitment, dedication and innovation of GKN people AgustaWestland to Finmeccanica, we described the 1.063 billion around the globe.
consideration, which represents 1.2 times AgustaWestlands 2003 sales, as the right price at the right time.
GKN secured a strong Outlook contribution from helicopters over the 10 years since the acquisition In Automotive the major European and North American markets are of Westland Group plc and the price realised for our shareholding forecast to remain relatively static in 2005.
Growth in the developing gave full recognition to the potential of that business.
markets is expected to continue, although at a slightly lower level than 2004.
Overall, global automotive demand is anticipated to maintain its The balance sheet strength we have secured will provide the resources steady 2-3% annual growth.
In Aerospace prospects are improving, with necessary for the next stages of development of our wholly-owned rising civil aircraft production and a robust US military market.
Our Automotive and Aerospace businesses.
OffHighway markets overall look set to show modest growth with steady US demand and a slight increase in Europe.
High-growth, low-cost economies GKN has an enviable record of penetrating new global markets.
Economic Against this background we expect our Automotive businesses to expansion in the emerging economies provides a major opportunity, improve underlying sales and operating performance although high particularly as we are able to build on an existing presence GKN has worldwide raw material prices, particularly for steel, present a challenge been in China for 16 years, India for almost a century and Brazil for to 2005 Automotive profitability.
Renegotiated annual supply contracts 32 years.
We are also established in Poland and Slovenia.
will add some 30 million to costs in 2005.
In addition we are exposed to fluctuations in the scrap steel price which is surcharged in the South America, Asia Pacific and Eastern Europe now account for 26% industry.
In the first quarter this surcharge will have some impact on of global light vehicle production.
These markets are forecast to grow at costs, although if scrap were to stay at the current somewhat reduced almost four times the rate of those in North America, Western Europe and price levels, little further impact would be felt in the rest of the year.
They also offer a low cost base to enhance our competitiveness.
In 2004 we announced our intention to migrate a further 20% of our CVJ We continue to negotiate for recovery of this cost increase with our production to these low-cost, high-growth economies so that by 2007 customers and are having some success, although the full quantum of more than 50% of our production will take place there.
We expect the recovery will not be known for several months.
Our focus on productivity benefits to be substantial.
We are also pursuing the restructuring of our improvement will continue.
North American Powder Metallurgy operations to return the business to In Aerospace trading is expected to continue to improve in 2005 and an adequate level of profitability.
OffHighways performance should also show progress.
The creation of technology The benefits of our leading technology, new products and strong Four years ago GKN identified the emerging demand for a new generation presence in emerging markets, combined with the benefits of the of automotive driveline components to manage the efficient distribution restructuring activities underway, leave the Groups continuing of power and torque in increasingly powerful vehicles.
Since then we have businesses well positioned for growth.
built a world-leading portfolio of mechanical and electronic products.
In addition, the transformation of the Group which started in 2004 will 2004 saw new vehicles come to market with innovative GKN products continue in 2005.
The 1 billion sale proceeds from AgustaWestland and systems including the Cadillac SRX STS and Land Rover Discovery.
have significantly strengthened the balance sheet and provide a solid We also won positions on important new vehicles still under development.
platform for accelerated growth in profits and earnings from their There has also been a strong focus on aerospace technology, particularly new, re-based levels.
The Group is well placed to take advantage of in composite structures which offer significant strength and weight benefits.
opportunities in all its markets and looks to the future with confidence.
In 2004 we achieved a number of firsts.
These included the first production components from new composite manufacturing processes for the Airbus A380 and the Lockheed Martin F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.
We won the order for the worlds first composite primary wing structures for a large aircraft, the Airbus A400M military airlifter, and the Boeing 787 will fly with the worlds first all-composite engine containment casing from GKN Kevin Smith on the General Electric GEnx turbofan.
23 February 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 7
