HALMA Chief Executives Review strong and active management delivers record profits Stephen OShea, Chief Executive Strong and active management delivers record profits The Group performance has been strong despite market conditions remaining difficult.
We achieved record profits of 50.3 million on a lower level of operating assets, despite a net 1 million profit hit from currency movements.
Widespread improvement in sales performance across the Groups businesses and regions produced 9% sales growth.
These results reflect our active management approach through which we achieve growth through focused acquisitions, efficiency .
Iampleased that excellent efforts from our management teams produced a return on capital employed of52%, outstanding foranyengineering andmanufacturing company.
Sincethe year end we have made two important acquisitions for a total initial sum of 22 million, significantly strengthening this sector.
Looking forward we expect to gain useful benefits from our acquisition and disposal activities.
Two further businesses were also consolidated to achieve the benefits of greater integration.
We remain strongly cash generative, creating net cash of 22 million during the year.
We funded our acquisitions from profits and also paid a record sum in dividends to our shareholders.
Well positioned for growth Our growth has come primarily from new products, the new customers they attract and new applications for long-term repeat ordering customers.
We spent a record amount on research and development which now accounts for 4% of sales and launched many new products.
Our cost base has been well managed so that we maintained our 17%return on sales foryet anotheryear.
TheGroup is in astrong position to benefit from improvements in our end markets although we saw no upturninthe2003  future growth.
see Financial Highlights Halma p. l. c. 2004 7 Chief Executives Review continued HALMA Management team strengthened There has been a seamless transition with our Chairman, Geoff Unwin, stepping up  , StephenPettit, inSeptember2003.
Themanagement team has been further strengthened with the recruitment of two additional senior managers, , .
We said goodbye to David Barber, the founder and architect of the Halma culture who .
Weowemuchtohimand all of us wish him well in his retirement.
Widespread sales and profit growth I am encouraged by the number of countries where we have built up stronger positions.
Territorial sales were grown to the UK, Europe, USA, Middle and Far East and Other Countries.
The US Dollar weakened considerably during the year so that although sales in the USA grew by 12% in local currency, this translated to a 2% .
 the strength of the Euro.
WeownedBEA, the world market leading supplier of automatic door sensors, for the whole of the year .
  its customer base across the world.
We have rolled out one of BEAs innovation techniques across the whole of the Group, demonstrating our commitment to transferring best practice.
Just over half our sales and profits are made by the UK companies.
Continuing , , and increased sales by 10.6 million.
Profits from our companies outside of the UK and USA, helped by 2.7 million from BEA, rose by 3.2 million.
The Far East and Asia are increasingly important territories and we extended our premises in Beijing and our manufacturing facilities in Shanghai and Beijing, as well as growing in Singapore.
Important product innovations include new ,  new European legislation in this area.
Repositioning in Optics and Specialist sector We are increasing the focus on higher technology products and more technically advanced customers.
Evidence of this can be seen in both the disposals made this year and in the acquisitions of Diba and Ocean Optics since the year end, both of which significantly broaden ourcapabilities inour Opticsand Specialist sector.
 thathelpanalyse substancesvia their reaction to light.
They are closely related to our water purity measuring photometers and other optical diagnostic equipment.
Our trading in this sector 8 Halma p. l. c. 2004 Chief Executives Review continued HALMA produced increased profits.
However within the sector we report our Head Office  senior management and lower income from subsidiaries who reduced their capital employed whilst growing profits.
The net effect was a reduction in profits of 0.4 million to 7.1 million.
Organic growth in Fire and Gas sector  personal gas warning monitors.
They earned 1.6 million of organic profit growth.
This sector increased its already effective use of assets, producing a return on capital employed of 85%, exceeding even the Groups strong ratios.
Resistors sector as predicted As expected, our Resistors sector continued to suffer a depressed market, particularly in US heavy industry.
There are some indications of improvement in one of our customer areas, mass transit systems.
The sector has been managed vigorously in terms of both cost and working capital reductions though we have yet to reverse the decline in profits.
Investment in new products Our Process Safety sector did not quite match last years sales and profits.
The UK market proved difficult although there are now improving conditions in the petrochemical sector, which look likely to continue.
New applications and specially developed products are particularly important in this sector.
New products introduced late in the year that improve safety at delivery bays and provide enhanced emergency pressure relief, are examples of increasing innovation in this otherwise stable sector.
Product leadership helps Water sector to increased profits Our Water sector increased both sales and profits this year.
We believe we are now offering customers the best UV sterilisation systems for drinking water on the market.
 and there are prospects of capital spending by UK water utilities beginning to rise.
We see this as a long-term growth sector.
Sustained growth based on sustained innovation Our focus on innovation and investment in research and development is bringing  customers.
The free cash generated by our businesses and through disposals has been invested in maintaining this momentum and building our range of products through judicious acquisitions.
We will benefit significantly once our markets improve but we are not dependant on this.
We have the talent and the resources .
 record sales and profits earned this year and the confidence we have in continuing our rapid rate of dividend increase.
I look forward to the coming year.
Stephen R OShea Halma p. l. c. 2004 9
