14 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Chief Executives Review 2004 proved to be a particularly strong year for our UK We continue to evaluate businesses, with sales growing by 9.2% on a like for like basis.
Positive trading throughout our geographic locations potential acquisitions that and across our various business sectors, in conjunction with an increase in each floorcovering product category, contributed to this success.
enhance our market presence Our businesses in Continental Europe continued their and can be relocated into our improvement and achieved further growth in sales and profit in 2004. existing facilities.
Market presence Following the acquisition of National Carpets and Kingsmead Carpets in 2004 and more recently, Clarendon Carpets in January 2005, we now have 47 businesses operating from 21 distribution centres in the UK.
The experienced management of these individual businesses innovations.
As part of our programme of ongoing business work with the worlds leading floorcovering manufacturers development, we placed over 720,000 point of sale items in order to maintain a constant flow of new qualities and during the year with our customers, whose active accounts a continual enlargement of their product portfolio.
The market presence of these businesses is promoted The introduction of IPAQ hand-held computers to support through 282 employed external sales people, working in our sales teams has proved particularly successful.
teams dedicated to each individual business.
These sales This has enhanced both their efficiency and the service teams ensure that our customers, the independent they are able to offer to their customers.
Furthermore, floorcovering retailer and contractor, remain competitive our business-to-business website continues to grow in and are continually supplied with the latest product popularity, with now 3,131 registered users.
This facility The Year in Review 15 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 enables our customers to access stock files and place Acquisitions orders 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
These During 2004 we acquired the business of National Carpets, activities further demonstrate our strong support to the which establishes a base and the opportunity to further UK independent floorcovering retailer and contractor.
develop business in the UK DIY sector.
The acquisition of Kingsmead Carpets in the autumn of 2004 enlarged Product our presence in high quality woollen products and the The introduction of 2,265 new carpet products during the acquisition in early 2005 of Clarendon Carpets, further year contributed to the 8.3% sales growth of this product complemented our presence in this premium sector.
sector and we launched 465 new residential vinyl products achieving a particularly positive year with sales growth We continue to evaluate potential acquisitions that enhance of 16.4%.
Our growth in laminate and wood products our market presence and can be relocated into our existing continued and sales of our carpet underlay category also facilities.
The commercial sector also enjoyed a positive performance, with sales improving by 8.4%.
UK operations The UK businesses are defined into four specific sectors: regional multi-product, national multi-product, residential specialist and commercial specialist.
Proportion by Product Our 27 regional multi-product businesses were able to grow Carpet 52% their sales by 8.0% and now account for 71% of our UK business.
They market and distribute a combination of Vinyl 13% manufacturers brands and own label product in the Laminate & Wood 6% residential sector.
In the commercial sector, we operate Carpet Underlay 4% principally with the leading manufacturers brands.
Contract 25% Mercado, the national multi-product distribution business benefited from its first full year operating from our new 16 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Chief Executives Review continued distribution centre in Leeds and increased sales by 15.2%.
and customers, subsequently enlarging their market This business now accounts for 15% of our UK turnover.
presence, they also enjoy the benefit of a common IT platform streamlining their operations and deriving optimum The eleven residential specialist businesses, established efficiency, whilst complying with strict financial procedures.
over the last three years and concentrating principally on the sale of higher quality carpets, more than doubled their Investments business and now account for 9% of UK turnover.
We have during 2004 and into 2005, continued to The businesses operating in this sector have enlarged improve the infrastructure of our UK operations.
our target market in an area that has not historically The extension at Florco located in Thatcham is now been supplied by the traditional floorcovering distributor.
fully operational giving the two businesses operating Business Sectors Regional Multi-product 71% National Multi-product 15% Residential Specialist 9% Commercial Specialist 9% Sales in our five specialist commercial businesses were The group is clearly focused on developing stable during the year and we look forward to this collection of businesses taking advantage of the new distribution its activities and we look forward to centre in Tamworth that will be operational in April 2005. another year of growth in 2005.
Whilst encouraging the autonomy of these individual businesses to maximise their relationship with suppliers The Year in Review 17 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 from this facility 40% extra capacity enabling further Continental Europe development in the south of England.
Our Continental European businesses in France, Switzerland and the Netherlands, maintained their positive performance Similarly, the extension at Hadfields in Stockport, creating an and it is particularly pleasing to achieve an 11.6% increase extra 50% capacity, is reaching completion and this will allow in operating profit.
We look forward to these businesses the three businesses operating from this facility to further continuing to increase market share and subsequently increase their market presence in the north of England.
improve their profit performance during the course of this year.
Our new 158,000 square feet freehold distribution centre at Tamworth will be operational in April 2005 and will allow Outlook the five businesses currently operating from leasehold The group is clearly focused on continuing to develop its premises in Tamworth to significantly enlarge their market floorcovering distribution activities, both through organic opportunities.
In addition, we will move a number of growth and careful acquisition of appropriate businesses.
businesses from our Coleshill facility to Tamworth during the course of this year, releasing further capacity for the Our businesses in the UK and Continental Europe retained businesses in Coleshill.
have made a solid start to 2005, in line with our internal objectives and we therefore look forward to another year We have exchanged contracts and subject to planning of growth.
permission, we will complete the purchase of five acres of land in Leeds.
This will allow us to re-house the Wilkies business and it is intended that this new site will be operational in the spring of 2006.
It is our intention to continue investment in the infrastructure of the business and re-house other operations within the group in order to increase efficiency and capacity and further enhance our market position.
Tony Brewer, Group Chief Executive 18 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Immediate order processing through our distribution centres enables next day delivery The Year in Review 19 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Our commitment to service is supported by the continuing investment in our large fleet of delivery vehicles which now number 395
