Chief Executives Review We have built a strong platform over the last few years and management is now firmly engaged on the growth agenda.
Martin J Lamb Chief Executive We can look back on 2004 with satisfaction, with all five of These four growth imperatives are understood by all the our platform businesses recording improvements in profit.
senior management in IMI, and are increasingly becoming In general, the businesses dealt well with the twin effects of embedded throughout our organisation.
We continually look materials inflation and a stronger pound, leaving reported for talent to accelerate our capabilities in these areas and pre-tax profits before goodwill amortisation and exceptional a number of new appointments were made during the year.
items some 14% ahead of last year.
Cashflow was again The recent non-executive director appointments to the strong, leaving the year-end balance sheet lightly geared, Board support our growth imperatives.
Lance Browne is with net debt of less than 70m, as compared to over based in Shanghai and brings with him great knowledge of 400m just four years ago.
China: Kevin Beestons experience will be invaluable in our Each of our platform businesses now has a clear and efforts to expand our after-market and service capability.
established strategic framework in which to move forward, Our search for a new chairman and another non-executive developed progressively over the last few years.
Within each director is on-going.
of those strategic frameworks, sustainable profitable Going into 2005, the US and Asian economies remain growth is the primary objective.
The principal drivers of buoyant whilst concerns grow over the outlook for European growth for all our businesses are the same: economies.
Inflationary pressures around materials and energy costs are unlikely to subside, at least in the near acceleration of our key account focus and capability, term, requiring continued diligence by our management in adopting a carefully targeted approach to the selection of both securing price increases of our own and mitigating the our customer partners, and assembling highly talented impact through increased sourcing of materials in the Far teams of people to promote double-digit revenue growth East and cost reduction programmes.
with these partners: We have built a strong platform over the last few years and delivering a step change in the creative competence of management is now firmly engaged on the growth agenda.
our organisation, investing in techniques to acquire improved Whilst prevailing economic conditions will inevitably play a customer and market insight, and upgrading our capacity to part, we are well placed to deliver sustainable growth over convert that insight into commercial solutions through a the long term.
larger engineering resource: seizing the initiative in respect of the fast-growing markets of Asia and Eastern Europe, expanding our local resource and investment and recruiting highly talented people from these territories throughout our business in 2004, 25% of our graduate intake was of Chinese origin : and Martin J Lamb Chief Executive accelerating our efforts to secure strategic bolt-on 7 March 2005 acquisitions in our chosen areas.
4 Chief Executives Review Chief Executive Martin Lamb with X-ray image of a miniature FAS solenoid valve carousel.
