Corporate Responsibilities Chief Executives Committee Robert Dyrbus Alison Cooper Gareth Davis Finance Director Director of Finance and Planning Chief Executive Richard Hannaford Matthew Phillips Frank Rogerson Company Secretary retired 30 09 04 Company Secretary from 01 10 04 Corporate Affairs Director Bruce Davidson David Cresswell Kathryn Brown Sales and Marketing Director Manufacturing Director Group Human Resources Director.
30 CHIEF EXECUTIVES COMMITTEE Benefit packages are competitive and in 2004 key The Chief Executives Committee is the senior representative roles were benchmarked against management steering group for the Company.
comparator companies, to ensure remuneration is Comprised of the Chief Executive and the Executive correctly positioned.
Employees are also invited to Directors biographies on page 29, the Director of share in the wealth created by the Group by Finance and Planning and the Group Human participating in sharesave schemes.
Operating in 30 Resources Director biographies below, the countries with 43 per cent of eligible employees Committee is responsible for implementing Group participating, the scheme was commended by strategy and monitoring the detailed performance of Proshare for Best International Expansion and by the all aspects of the business.
Global Equity Organisation for Best Plan Effectiveness.
We aim to promote good working relations with ALISON COOPER, BSC, ACA AGED 38, employees and their representatives through trade Director of Finance and Planning unions, works councils and other organisations and encourage efficient employee communications.
Alison joined the Group in 1999 from Membership of our European Employee Forum was , having worked with extended during the year to include European Union Imperial Tobacco over a number of years from both accession countries.
A total of 8,400 employees are an audit and acquisition perspective.
She is now represented through this consultation body.
responsible for financial planning and development including the financial evaluation of acquisitions as Where changes impact on employment in a particular well as day-to-day financial management and control location we ensure that affected employees are of the Group, taxation and investor relations.
For example, in May, our cigarette factories in Slovenia, Slovakia and Hungary were closed.
In line with normal company KATHRYN BROWN, AGED 49, practice, consultation took place with local works Group Human Resources Director councils and trades unions.
We were pleased with Kathryn joined Imperial in 2002 from Somerfield PLC, the constructive engagement that took place to agree where she was a member of the PLC Board.
She has mutually acceptable arrangements.
Outplacement also held a number of senior operational consulting support was offered in every location.
roles in change management in the FMCG sector.
She is responsible for all aspects of human resource The health and safety of all our employees is a high management across the Imperial Tobacco Group.
priority, regardless of location, and our progress on the key issues will be reported in our 2004 Corporate Responsibility Review.
EMPLOYEES During the year, we have continued to further develop our employment practices.
Our ability to encourage and reward A number of initiatives are in place to support the training and development of employees at all levels good performance, and support the and to support the effective succession planning for training and development of all our a number of key management roles.
High potential managers are sponsored at a Group level with employees is fundamental to our appropriate development plans supporting their continuing success.
progression.. 31 Corporate Responsibilities The 2003 Corporate Responsibility Review is our most comprehensive explanation to date of Imperials approach, progress and policies.
The Review reaffirms the Companys commitment to continuous progress in its role as a responsible corporate citizen Frank Rogerson, Corporate Affairs Director OUR APPROACH In regard to human rights, we now have 5 social Our objective is to build a sustainable and profitable auditors trained to SA8000 standards, who have business while behaving as a good corporate citizen evaluated the priority areas of our operations as part in all of our activities.
The rapid international of a four year rolling programme.
Together with the expansion of the Group in recent years has extended International Labour Organisation, we are active the challenges that we have needed to address.
board members of the Elimination of Child Labour in Tobacco Foundation.
Our first Corporate Responsibility Review was published on our website www.
com Product stewardship and health remain a priority for in December 2003.
This was our first formal Review the Group, given the controversial nature of our and set out both our approach and the processes by products.
Our research and development which we ensure that responsible corporate behaviour programmes are undertaken to improve our is embedded across all of our business activities.
As knowledge of tobacco, smoking and the diseases well as detailing our progress and our plans for the associated with smoking.
We use this knowledge to future, the Review highlighted the areas requiring research potentially reduced exposure products that further attention.
Our 2004 Review to be published in might be regarded by government authorities as December will outline the improvements we have having potentially reduced risk.
We intend to be an made in the year, as well as the development of our active and effective participant in developments in key performance indicators and our stakeholder this area.
We would welcome further discussions engagement programme.
between government authorities and industry experts to define objective criteria and predictive tests by We are pleased by the positive and constructive which these products can be judged.
OUR ACHIEVEMENTS During the year, we conducted a review of Group policies which were comprehensively updated and reissued to management teams around the business.
We supported our communication activities with a number of regional training programmes focusing on compliance with our rigorous supply policy.
2004 was the second year of our Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production programme and we are pleased with the improvements in our supplier scores.
Experienced external consultants have now reviewed all low-performing suppliers to help them develop improvement plans.
This approach has also been extended across our major non-tobacco suppliers, who have reported generally high standards of risk management.. 32 Environmental Management Overview Throughout our operations, we identify opportunities to minimise the environmental impact of our activities and a further 9 factories gained ISO14001 certification during the year.
Our ranking in the Business in the Environment BiE index of environmental management was 79 per cent.
We are pleased to have maintained this score in light of the transforming Reemtsma acquisition.
This is due to the rapid integration of our management and performance measures.
We are reducing our carbon dioxide emissions in a number of different ways.
For example: Over 95 per cent of the electricity bought in the UK was generated from renewable energy sources.
More fuel-efficient vehicles have been selected in revised fleet management contracts.
Our co-operation with the UK Carbon Trust shows how we work with governments to demonstrate self-regulation and improve our performance.
Our independent energy audits help our manufacturing teams to evaluate potential energy saving opportunities.
In Madagascar, we continue to progress plans for our operations to become self-sufficient in wood.
This involves planting trees and introducing more fuel-efficient curing barns.
Climate Change CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT During the year, our climate change strategy has been evaluated as part of the Carbon Disclosure Project and ranked among the top 50 climate change leaders from a crosssection of the worlds multinational businesses.
We remain committed to our energy reduction target of 10 per cent per unit of production by 2010.
SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT We normally donate around 0.1 per cent of our profits We aim to assist the communities worldwide in after tax and our total charitable donations in 2004 which we operate internationally and to support our were 920,000.
The Board has decided to raise this employees work in their communities.
commitment incrementally over the next three years to 0.2 per cent of the pre-tax profits of the previous year.
Many communities view tobacco growing as a We often match the money raised by employees for means of sustaining their economy and we are active special projects.
This approach allows us to in a number of countries in full-scale or early stage contribute to causes our employees favour.
tree planting activities, well drilling, education and health projects.. 33
