Chairman and Chief Executives Statement Derek Bonham Chairman left Gareth Davis Chief Executive At the heart of everything we do is a desire to create These positive results reflect sustainable profitable growth for our shareholders, while ensuring we continue to meet the current and the progress made future needs of our consumers.
throughout the Group during Our comprehensive portfolio of tobacco products and the year.
Imperial Tobacco brands, our geographic diversity and our proactive approach mean we are well placed to capitalise on remains a highly cash changes in our external environment as we pursue growth, both organically and through acquisition.
generative business, with strong earnings growth.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Our financial performance reflects our operational progress, supported by continuing cost efficiencies, and the effective use of our cash.
Turnover excluding duty in 2004 was 3.0 billion 2003: 3.2 billion, impacted by the sale of two wholesale businesses last year and adverse foreign exchange movements, totalling around 0.2 billion.
Adjusting for these factors, turnover was broadly flat, with our focus on profitable volume development compensating for certain market size pressures in the year, particularly in Germany and France.
Adjusted operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items increased by 7 per cent to over 1.2 billion.
Reported profit after amortisation and exceptional items was flat at 885 million 2003: 881 million.. 04 With a reduction in the interest charge to 204 million Outside our manufacturing operations the same 2003: 237 million, adjusted profit on ordinary rigorous management approach is applied, ensuring activities before taxation increased by 13 per cent to effective control of both the costs and capital over 1 billion.
Adjusted earnings per share were up employed by the Group around the world.
13 per cent to 101.6 pence, from 90.0 pence in The acquisition of the business and assets of the 2003.
Basic earnings per share were 61.4 pence CTC Tube Company of Canada in May provided an 2003: 58.1 pence.
opportunity to strengthen our position in the growing rolling papers and tubes markets.
Although this was a small acquisition for Imperial Tobacco, we have been encouraged by the opportunities this business offers.
DIVIDEND The Board recommends a final dividend of 35.0 pence per share bringing the total dividend for 2004 to 50.0 pence, an increase of 19 per cent OUR ENVIRONMENT 2003: 42.0 pence.
As we said in our interim report Together with other tobacco growers, manufacturers in April, this takes us back to our historical annual and suppliers, we are part of an estimated dividend payout of around 50 per cent of earnings.
We recognise The dividend will be paid on 18 February 2005 to that our industry remains controversial.
We are shareholders on the register at the close of business committed to providing consumers with high quality on 21 January 2005. tobacco products, while continuing to seek constructive dialogue with governments and regulatory bodies in pursuit of reasonable and appropriate regulation.
ANOTHER YEAR OF PROGRESS This financial success is the result of a number of We believe that an outright ban on smoking in public strong performances around the business, and places such as those seen in recent months in includes some particular highlights.
Ireland and Norway is a step too far.
Given the heightened interest in this topic, we have included From a brand perspective Davidoff has performed further information on smoking bans on page 26 of extremely well, with volumes up 15 per cent year this report.
We welcome the opportunity to find on year with growth in all our key regions.
We have practical, workable solutions as an alternative to also benefited from our strong portfolio in other regulation in this area.
tobacco products with our brands Golden Virginia, We believe the risks associated with smoking are well Drum and Rizla.
We were encouraged by the findings of We have grown our market shares in a number of Courts in both Ireland and Germany, where a number markets including in Western Europe, Africa, the of cases have been dismissed.
We will continue to Middle East and Asia.
Longer term investments such contest all such litigation against the Group.
as our relationship with strategic alliance partners, the Yuxi Hongta Group in China, are developing well, strengthening our platform for growth.
At the heart of everything With EU accession in May, we were able to address we do is a desire to create some of the over-capacity inherent in our manufacturing operations since the Reemtsma sustainable profitable acquisition.
We closed our cigarette factories in Slovenia, Slovakia and Hungary and our filter growth for our production centre in Hungary.
part of an ongoing review of our manufacturing sites, contributing to the reduction in costs and complexity and improving efficiencies within the enlarged Group.. 05 Our employees are focused on delivering results for the benefit of our shareholders.
It is their commitment that turns our strategy into reality.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OUTLOOK We strive for the highest possible standards of Looking ahead, we believe that the Group is well governance throughout the business and in all our placed to continue its record of success.
We broadly welcome initiatives record of which we are proud, driven by an such as those proposed by the UK Government overriding focus on delivering profitable growth for introducing regulations for the Operating and the benefit of our shareholders.
We believe our Financial Review.
strategy will continue to deliver excellent results.
Providing greater clarity and transparency and Our international coverage and balanced brand improving the quality of our reporting for the benefit portfolio provide us with continuing opportunities for of investors was one of the objectives of our first organic growth.
We remain committed to further Corporate Responsibility Review, published on our efficiencies, ensuring the business is organised website in December 2003.
The Board was pleased effectively in order to meet current and future market with the positive responses received from a wide demands.
We continue to look for potential range of stakeholders.
The Review sets out our acquisition opportunities that deliver value.
With approach in this area and our objectives for both this improving funding ratios, and should suitable year and next, against which we have made acquisitions not be immediately available, we are considerable progress.
An overview of our actively considering returning surplus funds to our achievements is included on pages 32 to 33 of this shareholders through a share buyback programme.
report, with more detailed information contained in Finally, and on behalf of the entire Board, we would the Corporate Responsibility Review for 2004, which like to thank our employees.
It is their commitment to will be published on our website in December.
delivering results for the benefit of our shareholders that turns our strategy into reality.
BOARD AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT CHANGES Richard Hannaford, Company Secretary, retired this year and, on behalf of the Board, we extend our heartfelt thanks for his guidance and wise counsel, and for the contribution he has made to Imperial Tobacco over the last 31 years.
He is succeeded by Derek Bonham Gareth Davis Matthew Phillips, formerly Senior Legal Counsel.
Chairman Chief Executive We also welcome David Thursfield, as a Non-Executive Director.
He brings significant international expertise from more than 25 years in the automotive industry.. 06 These spaces appear blank because we have removed the images that appear in the paper version of this publication.
This is because we currently do not feature tobacco product brand imagery on our web site.
We have grown our market shares in a number of markets in Western Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Asia.. 07
