04 Chief Executives review During 2004 we have continued with our established strategy of creating scale, highly integrated businesses, covering elements of distribution, retail and aftersales.
This has resulted in above average returns and market leading positions for our manufacturer partners.
We have proven expertise in emerging markets, where our integrated management and access to capital is an advantage over local operators, allowing us to act quickly by establishing outstanding facilities in the core markets within the territory.
We are confident that this strategy will continue to serve us well as we move into new emerging markets, develop our existing markets During 2004 we have continued and possibly add to our core manufacturer partners.
In Hong Kong and Singapore our investments in aftersales with our established strategy of facilities produced excellent returns from a growing vehicle parc.
creating scale, highly integrated We continue to assess scale retail opportunities in mainland China, based on our strategic and investment criteria, whilst also looking businesses, covering elements at the potential of the indigenous Chinese manufacturers to whom of distribution, retail and aftersales.
we can provide proven distribution and retail skills.
In Australia, Subaru Melbourne continues to exceed our Peter Johnson Group Chief Executive sales and financial expectations.
We have restructured our Retail business in Sydney by rationalising our facilities and developing two of the five Subaru retail market areas in the city.
Opportunities for further retail expansion in New South Wales are being explored.
AutoNexus, our Business Services operation, was awarded a parts warehousing and logistics contract for Volkswagen and Audi and has moved into a modern state of the art facility.
In Greece the Athens region accounts for c. 50.0% of national sales volume.
Our Retail development in the city is underway with a new sales and service facility at Stavros and a new showroom at Heraklion.
These complement our existing operation at Syngrou.
We will centralise our used car sales operations in Stavros and establish a new body and paint shop in a low cost location.
In Belgium we are looking to reconfigure the existing Toyota representation in Brussels expanding our own Retail presence.
We are also encouraged by the renewed investment by Toyota in the Lexus brand where we are the exclusive Distributor and Retailer in Luxembourg and Greece, and the Distributor and dominant Retailer in Belgium.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2004 05 Expansion into Eastern Europe In late 2004, Inchcape further expanded its footprint in Eastern Europe when it opened two BMW MINI dealerships in Poland.
The first showroom is in the capital city of Warsaw whilst the second is in Wroclaw, which is situated in the In the Balkans our Toyota sales for 2004 exceeded 5,000 units as west of the country.
These developments we continue to benefit from double digit market growth and Toyotas represent a total initial investment of c. 3.0m with sales of some 700 new and increasing market share.
Toyota is now market leader in Bulgaria for used cars expected by the end of 2005. passenger cars, and is growing rapidly in Romania.
We are in the Inchcape is well positioned to expand process of building a flagship retail site for Toyota in Bucharest.
this initial investment and is looking to further grow its relationship with BMW in Growth opportunities are considerable in Eastern Europe, order to create a scale business in Poland.
where the car ownership population is 221 per thousand compared to 602 per thousand in Western Europe.
We are confident that our Continued success investments in the Balkans and our two new Retail developments in the Baltics Inchcape has been awarded the Import with BMW MINI in Poland, in Warsaw and Wroclaw, position us and Distribution business for Land Rover well to take advantage of further growth.
We are actively pursuing in Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.
other opportunities in Eastern Europe where our strategy of Trading commenced in these operations in late 2004 and this development investing in scale, contiguous territories for distribution and retail complements our existing Mazda and can be implemented.
Jaguar businesses in these markets.
Our businesses in Finland and the Baltics continue to prosper In December 2004, Inchcape announced further progress in the Baltics and we were awarded the Land Rover distribution contract for with the acquisition of Estonias two these markets during 2004.
This will enable us to consolidate back independent Mazda retailers and, as a office distribution activities across Mazda, Jaguar and Land Rover.
result of this development, Inchcape is As part of this strategy we have acquired Estonias two independent now the exclusive Importer and Retailer for Mazda in this city state market.
Mazda retailers, and will be investing in Land Rover and Jaguar retail The total investment in this business facilities in this market.
In the UK we remain committed to growing our Retail business From 1 March 2005 Inchcape will also become the sole Retailer for Jaguar and with our core partners, through the extension of existing territories Land Rover in Estonia, further strengthening and the acquisition of new ones.
In 2004 we acquired our second the vertically integrated business model Mercedes-Benz market area covering Mansfield, Nottingham, in this market.
This, combined with our existing businesses, now accounts for c. 5.0% of Mercedes-Benz passenger car sales in the UK.
We continue to expand with BMW and Toyota and are considering further growth plans with our other core partners Lexus, Jaguar, Land Rover and Volkswagen.
The Group remains well placed to pursue its growth strategy across new and existing markets with its core partners.
Peter Johnson Group Chief Executive 28 February 2005 Inchcape plc Annual report 2004 We have created long term partnerships with industry leading manufacturers, establishing strong market positions right across the globe.
