CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT 2004 WAS A YEAR OF SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS, AS WE COMPLETED A NUMBER OF IMPORTANT STEPS TO STRENGTHEN AND REPOSITION YOUR GROUP FOR BOTH THE IMMEDIATE FUTURE AND THE LONG-TERM, ALONGSIDE DELIVERING RESULTS AT THE TOP END OF OUR EARNINGS GUIDANCE.
LOOKING FORWARD, WE HAVE THE CLEAR PRIORITY TO INTEGRATE OUR NEWLY ACQUIRED ASSETS QUICKLY AND EFFICIENTLY TO ENSURE WE DELIVER TO SHAREHOLDERS THE RETURNS WE HAVE PROMISED.
These assets are now Throughout these major moves, where being quickly and successfully integrated we were committing a major element 2004 was a year of significant progress, into our existing regional structure, giving of our Group cash reserves and assuming as we completed a number of important an immediate and significant increase a significant amount of non-recourse steps to strengthen and reposition your in earnings.
debt, we kept our focus on maintaining Group for both the immediate future and a prudent capital structure.
Our objective the long-term, alongside delivering results Secondly, we completed the acquisition was to add no additional debt at the at the top end of our earnings guidance.
of a majority stake in Turbogs in Group centre, and to retain some We are clearly not satisfied that our 2004 Portugal, a modern and efficient 990 MW capacity to execute value-added growth profits excluding exceptional items were gas fired plant.
This asset, together with opportunities in our core regions.
down on 2003 by some 4%, but we do our existing investment in Portugal We concluded that a Rights Issue believe the steps taken in 2004 provide namely the 600 MW Pego coal fired was the most appropriate option, a sound basis for an immediate and plant provides a profitable, cash and I want to thank shareholders sustainable growth in earnings and cash generative and highly integrated for their overwhelming support.
Portuguese portfolio, and positions us very well for the anticipated Operationally in 2004, the Group Firstly, we acquired the international liberalisation of the Iberian market.
continued to benefit from our portfolio generating assets of Edison Mission Energy approach, with continued strong EME.
This portfolio comprises nine assets Thirdly, we also completed the performance in four of our five core in six countries with a net generating restructuring of the US$879 million regions offsetting the anticipated capacity of 3,202 MW, representing a 488 million non-recourse debt facility weak performance of our US significant increase in our total capacity.
for our US merchant portfolio.
This was a major acquisition, costing flagged last year, the low margins in some US$1.9 billion 972 million, our US merchant markets resulted In the US, margins in our two markets undertaken in a 70:30 partnership with in insufficient cash flow to fully meet of Texas and New England continued Mitsui of Japan, who we know well interest costs.
We carefully evaluated to be low, and insufficient to meet total through our previous joint developments all options, and concluded that it was operating costs.
We did a very thorough in Asia and the Middle East.
We are in the best interests of shareholders market analysis to ensure there are solid delighted to have Mitsui as our partner to retain the upside exposure to the grounds for anticipating a recovery in in this major investment we have medium-term recovery in our US the medium-term, namely the 2007 highly complementary skills and aligned markets.
The restructured facility, to 2009 timeframe.
The EME assets are an extended to 2010, provides a solid current forward prices for 2005 also excellent fit, with seven of the nine assets capital structure, and we can now fully generally show some very modest having secure long-term contracts, and concentrate on ways of commercially improvement.
Our contracted assets the other two operating in our core strengthening our US business.
continue to perform very well, and merchant markets of the UK and 4 under the new regional leadership Our Asian portfolio is totally covered by Looking forward, we have the clear of Bruce Levy, we look forward to long-term offtake contracts and, continued priority to integrate our newly acquired reviewing commercial opportunities high levels of plant availability, delivered assets quickly and efficiently to ensure to maximise returns from our another year of good financial performance.
we deliver to shareholders the returns US business.
We are now Our safety, environmental and implementing detailed integration In Europe, there was continued strong community programmes continue to plans to do precisely that.
performance from EOP in the Czech have a very high priority throughout Republic, Pego in Portugal and Marmara the Group all of our assets have a We are committed to delivering increased in Turkey.
The UK business saw some consistent set of principles and policies, profitability and cash flow.
These earnings improvement in power prices, but as this and although each individual initiative is and cash flow will be used to grow our was principally driven by an increase in ultimately implemented at a local level, dividends in line with our declared policy gas prices, there was only a minimal they are co-ordinated, encouraged and and selectively to grow our portfolio.
reviewed from the Group centre.
We are On growth, our guiding principles remain committed to the highest levels of safety financial discipline and regional focus, Our Middle East business continues and environmental performance at all our and we will continue only to allocate to grow, with both our developments plants, and we continually strive to be a capital where we see good long-term in Abu Dhabi, namely Shuweihat and participative and supportive neighbour in value for our shareholders.
Umm Al Nar, making an increased all the communities in which we operate.
High The corporate social responsibility section quality growth opportunities, that provide of this report will give you some practical long-term contracted income, continue examples of how we translate this to be pursued in this region.
In Australia, our strong forward The Group is now well positioned, contracted position helped maintain with a stronger contracted base to our Philip Cox profitability at a time when market prices earnings and cash flow, in depth market Chief Executive Officer were softer.
Our integrated portfolio knowledge and operating skills across all in this region was strengthened by the our core regions, a portfolio approach construction of our first wind farm, that both mitigates risk and provides which is now fully operational, and by upside exposure to recovery in merchant the commissioning of the SEA Gas markets, strong partners in our projects, pipeline in South Australia.
and, very importantly, a solid capital structure based on non-recourse project debt with liquidity at the corporate centre.
