Chief Executives review Financial performance Powerware and LHB Process Systems Looking ahead Eurotherm APV Rail Systems Climate Controls Appliance Controls Chief Executives review that customers installing our plant systems expect them typically to last for 15 to 20 This has been a tough year for years, a suppliers financial security is Invensys, but we have strengthened essential: concerns about our future had clearly started to have a negative impact on the Groups financial position and Process Systems orders by the second half delivered full-year results in line of the year.
Following the refinancing, the business experienced a significant pick-up in with expectations.
orders, enabling it to participate in the first signs of a market recovery.
At the same time, an Invensys with the financial resources to greater stability has allowed the management sustain the development of its technologies to launch a 70-week programme designed to and services.
Orders that had been delayed further streamline the organisation, its are now coming through.
The refinancing processes and cost base, improving the has enabled us to retain Climate Controls reliability and quality of financial performance and Appliance Controls within the Group within the business and increasing its focus and begin to invest in their growth.
At the on specific customer segments.
The same time, it has also provided us with the programme is on track to deliver its first flexibility to continue with our plans to sell benefits in the second half of the year, with Rick Haythornthwaite, Chief Executive Powerware, Lambda, Hansen and Baker at a longer-term goal of bringing business our own pace.
After the year end, we margins in line with its best-in-class peers.
This has been a tough year for Invensys, announced our successful disposal of but we have strengthened the Groups Powerware to Eaton Corporation for Eurotherm financial position and delivered full-year US$560 million and Hansen to Allianz Capital Eurotherm is a well-run business that again results in line with expectations.
delivered a solid performance although the operating margin fell due to an increase in Although our key markets are showing some In addition, for the first time since I became sales from Asia Pacific, where profit margins encouraging signs and customer confidence Chief Executive of the Group, there are early are generally lower than those in more is rebuilding, we are taking a conservative signs of recovery in our key markets.
Although there are signs view of the general economic outlook.
of a pick-up in North America, growth rates It is important that we make steady and Financial performance in Asia Pacific are likely to remain stronger, sustainable progress in our operating More importantly, our financial performance and management is starting to examine performance and this is a process that will for the year was in line with expectations.
opportunities for lower-cost sourcing to take some time yet.
We are reinforcing our The businesses that we are retaining enhance profitability in the region.
presence in key markets and sectors, critical Process Systems, Eurotherm, APV, Rail technology gaps have been filled and our Systems, Climate Controls and Appliance APV quality and delivery have been improved.
Controls together reported a solid APV has similarly made inroads into fixing performance for the year to 31 March 2004. the problems of the past, but as these results However, until we announced the On sales that were flat at constant exchange show, still has some way to go to achieve its refinancing in February, the industry noise rates CER, they achieved an operating potential.
Underlying progress was masked by about our financial position was having an profit of 191 million after corporate costs.
the impact during the second half of the year increasing impact on customer confidence, Net debt was further reduced to 986 million of resolving historic accounting issues in to the point that orders were being delayed and corporate costs were significantly Japan and of additional project costs until we could prove that we would be lowered in line with our plans.
identified as the result of improved around for the long term.
Despite these mixed Process Systems results, the prospect of stable, higher margins Following the refinancing, these issues In what was a year of stabilisation, and good growth is realistic.
Our customers see whilst continuing to address operational issues within its business, Process Systems maintained sales at last years levels.
Given 04 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004 Chief Executives review Financial performance Powerware and LHB Process Systems Looking ahead Eurotherm APV Rail Systems Climate Controls Appliance Controls Rail Systems Now we must prove that we can deliver Rail Systems had a strong year, achieving steady and sustainable progress in our growth in sales and an increase in operating operating performance.
This continues to be a very attractive business in what are national rather than global markets: Rail Systems is number one and maintain a healthy, though reduced, Looking ahead in the UK and Spain and number two in the margin.
The disruption to customer In future, we will be reporting the Groups US.
As such, order flow on large-scale confidence from the process to dispose results on a quarterly basis.
The transition projects is subject to short-term variations.
of the business prior to the refinancing has will enable us to continue our commitment Results in the forthcoming year, for instance, now been removed by our decision to of transparency to investors, but it is will be influenced by the speed of Network retain Appliance Controls.
Also, the upturn important to remember that, with many Rails restructuring in the UK, and the in orders in the final quarter of 2003 04 is of our businesses transacting large, projectrelease of approved budgets for the work expected to underpin progress in 2004 05, based contracts, success will need to be required, and by the timing of the passage reinforced by an increasing emphasis on calibrated by patterns over the medium term, of the US Transportation Bill.
Margins are sourcing and trading in the growing rather than by quarterly variations.
also expected to be slightly lower as a Chinese market.
result of carrying higher bonding costs In summary, the Group has weathered and insurance charges.
Overall, however, Powerware and LHB a particularly stormy passage, not only in fundamental prospects remain robust.
Powerwares sales were down but operating the trading cycle but above all in its efforts profit remained level.
The reduction in sales to work through the legacy issues from its Climate Controls was due primarily to the uncertainty conglomerate past.
Much basic repair work Climate Controls sales fell mainly as a result surrounding the disposal process and its has been done to the businesses that today of the disposal of low-margin contracting impact on customer confidence.
form a simpler and more stable Invensys.
In contrast, operating profit was maintained, reflecting Powerwares sale to Eaton Corporation The refinancing has increased our a significant rise in margins.
The exit from for US$560 million was announced on financial security, given renewed low-margin contracting businesses will 27 April 2004. confidence to our customers and provided continue in 2004 05 and will enable Climate the necessary resources to develop our Controls to focus on specific opportunities, Combined sales for Lambda, Hansen and businesses to their full potential.
Now we notably in heating where the possibility of Baker LHB were consistent with last year.
must prove that the pain of the last two strong growth and higher margins in China The operating loss for the year was years has been worth it, and that we can has been identified and commercial significantly lower, as Lambdas market deliver steady and sustainable progress refrigeration, where new product launches showed signs of recovery over the year, in our operating performance.
will help to stimulate growth.
Following the particularly in the second half in its key rigours of the disposal programme, Climate semiconductor and test equipment markets.
This remains a very demanding task, but I Controls is now a more tightly focused Hansens markets showed significant growth am confident that with the support of our and better-managed business capable of during the year, although operating profit new COO, Ulf Henriksson, our business can both margin improvement and growth in was significantly lower than last year as the now deliver the promises we have made to selected markets.
start-up of a new manufacturing site our investors.
Appliance Controls Bakers sales overall were down, as demand Appliance Controls displayed its resilience in for baked goods machinery in the US difficult and competitive conditions.
Despite experienced a severe downturn in investment pricing pressures in its customers own due to the impact on its customers of the markets and weak demand in the first fashion for low-carbohydrate diets.
quarter, Appliance Controls continued to engineer further cost out of its products The sale of Hansen to Allianz Capital Rick Haythornthwaite, Chief Executive Partners GmbH for 132 million was announced on 19 May 2004.
05 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004
