Chief executives review Solid performance across all business segments AMEC made solid progress in 2004 and on 22 November was reclassified to the Support Services Sector of the London Stock Exchange by the FTSE Global Classification Committee.
This change of stock market sector, which recognises the shift in the balance of AMECs activities towards services, was followed on 2 December 2004 by the announcement of a revised statutory segmental analysis, which better reflects the ongoing business portfolio.
The segments are Engineering and Technical Services ETS, Oil and Gas and Project Solutions.
The strength of our portfolio of Project Equity Investments has really come through this year Sir Peter Mason KBE Chief executive 26 AMEC plc annual report 2004 Business review Environmental Services 2004 was a record year, with increased levels of activity under a framework Engineering and Technical contract for the US Air Force in locations Services including Iraq and Guam.
The Geomelt With turnover of 2.3 billion, representing contract for the US Department of Energy 47 per cent of total turnover in 2004, at Hanford, initially valued at US$60 million, ETS is the largest of AMECs three continues to make progress and the first business segments.
full scale nuclear waste vitrification is due to be completed by the end of 2005.
This business delivered another robust performance in 2004, with total operating New offices are being opened in a number profit up 7.9 per cent.
of countries and this pattern of customerdriven expansion is expected to continue Multitechnical Services steadily with increasing demand for 2004 was another year of robust environmental services.
performance, with increased activity reflecting organic growth, driven broadly Design and Engineering Services by levels of economic activity, together with Performance in 2004 was mixed.
a series of eight small acquisitions that extended the local services network In the UK, AMEC is active on framework and capability in France, the Netherlands, contracts for clients that include BAA and Portugal and Spain.
This business will the Ministry of Defence.
There are also continue to follow the same growth specific future opportunities, including strategy in 2005, targeting further the restructuring of the nuclear industry volume growth and an improved margin, which opens to private sector companies particularly in Benelux.
AMEC plc annual report 2004 27 Chief executives review continued AMEC is one of the few companies with the through and safety and security remain expertise and relationships to pursue the of paramount importance.
Firm awards 2 billion of work that the UK government to date to the AMEC Fluor joint venture estimates will be available on an annual amount to around US$730 million, although basis and is positioning itself to compete the final value could be much higher.
addition, AMEC has received direct orders totalling around US$130 million.
These Investment in US industrial markets remains contracts continue to carry no commercial low.
While some sectors, like mining, are risk as they are all fully cost reimbursable.
now very busy, others, such as food and forest products, have yet to show any signs Activity in Iraq made a small contribution in of recovery.
AMEC has taken further action 2004, and whilst conditions remain volatile to reduce the cost base in response.
and it is difficult to predict rates of progress on specific tasks, this contribution is AMEC is working in Iraq under various expected to increase in 2005. contracts to restore damaged infrastructure, including power generation and water.
AMEC is committed to a long-term presence Task orders under these contracts have, in Iraq and is exploring opportunities in the as expected, taken some time to come country and in the region.
Oil and Gas Recent contract awards Shell Canada Nexen AIOC BP Buzzard Imperial Oil Operations, Talisman engineering CNRL Tweedsmuir & project Canadian oil management Brownfield sands Services 4 years initial contract ConocoPhilips UK North Sea Caspian Bayu Undan Operations & maintenance Cheyenne support Star Energy Plains Timor Sea Pipeline Co. Project management Project Exxon Mobil KOC management UK Sable Project and delivery management Project USA management 5 years initial SNEPCO Woodside contract Bonga Canada Enfield FPSO Operations & Kuwait maintenance Engineering & project 2 years initial management contract Perth Nigeria 28 AMEC plc annual report 2004 Oil and Gas This business generated turnover of sub-sea pipeline design capability and is 1.2 billion, representing 25 per cent working on projects including the complex of total turnover in 2004.
Mardi Gras project for BP.
Activity levels remained high and the Paragon positions AMEC as a top tier quality of earnings was improved, with designer and project manager in Houston, operating margin increasing to 4.7 per in addition to strengthening its engineering cent 2003: 4.3 per cent.
and asset support relationships with customers such as Chevron Texaco, During 2004, the services business Marathon and Pemex.
increased levels of international activity in regions including the Gulf of Mexico, During 2004 AMEC completed the vast West Africa, Caspian, Canada and Asia majority of its upstream lump sum Pacific.
contracts, with the remainder expected to be completed during the first half of 2005.
The business has extended its portfolio of services into gas storage and pipeline These contracts are being replaced with design and strengthened its position in more stable, long-term services and the oil brownfield projects, operations and asset and gas order book for 2005 is up year-onsupport services.
More work was secured year despite a reduction in these lumpfrom an increasing range of customers, sum contracts.
including the Kuwait Oil Company, the Korean National Oil Company and Woodside of Australia.
The Canadian oil sands business is busy, as more efficient extraction methods and a strong oil price have made the regions resources more profitable to develop, whilst the pipelines business was active during 2004 on a range of projects including the BTC pipelines in Georgia and the Cheyenne Plains project in the US.
Since the year-end, the acquisition of Paragon, the Houston-based design and engineering company, has significantly improved AMECs competitive position in the main decision-making centre for the global oil and gas industry.
Paragon allows AMEC to provide a more complete service to customers in the Gulf of Mexico region.
It has acknowledged AMEC plc annual report 2004 29 Chief executives review continued Project Solutions stage on Incheon Bridge in South Korea, This segment, which is generally involved where financial close is expected shortly.
with large infrastructure projects, generated turnover of 1.4 billion, representing Over the coming years, AMEC expects to 28 per cent of total turnover in 2004. achieve increasing earnings from this portfolio, either from the sale of its Performance in the Project Solutions investments or from increasing the business was steady, following AMECs exit contribution from operational concessions.
in the first half of 2004 from US Construction Management and the disposal of AMECs Developments remaining 49 per cent interest in the AMEC has built a leading reputation in regional French construction business urban regeneration, working in partnership Spie Batignolles.
with landowners such as local authorities and private sector organisations.
Over a Project Solutions includes AMECs activities dozen schemes were under development in PPP, Developments and Wind Energy, during 2004, including projects in Reading which reported an operating profit of and Durham.
During the year an AMEC 20 million, a 10 per cent improvement joint venture was awarded a major scheme on 2003. to regenerate Lewisham town centre.
Wind Energy Planning approval is expected for about Onshore portfolio planning status Construction Services at December 2004 three million square feet of developments This business has strong relationships with Potential capacity MW in 2005, a threefold increase on the 1,000 clients both in the public and private sectors previous year.
Pre-planning 800 and was active in 2004 on major projects Planning application in defence, transport, healthcare and Wind Energy 600 Conditional consent infrastructure markets.
AMEC is developing an onshore portfolio 400 of around 1,500 MW, including third parties In 2004, good progress was made in 200 shares of developments being managed delivering the Docklands Light Railway 0 by AMEC.
Its offshore developments have extension, and the University College London all been pre-sold, although AMEC continues Hospital is heading to completion on time Onshore portfolio development potential to be involved in project management and on budget.
Potential capacity MW for the owner, with work that carries 1,000 performance incentives as well as PPP 800 management fees.
In 2004, AMECs share of the operating 600 profit of its PPP concessions was During 2004, AMEC submitted planning 400 10.8 million 2003: 10.6 million and applications for major schemes at Kyle and after taking into account the share of the Isle of Lewis in Scotland, the latter 200 net interest payable, resulted in a small being potentially the worlds largest 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 net contribution.
Conditional consent Construction In operation Since the year-end AMECs PPP portfolio The planning process is extremely slow and Assumptions - Reflects projects as at 10 March 2005 and includes has been strengthened through the award at the end of 2004 a very large percentage of AMECs share of joint venture developments - Excludes any additional new developments of preferred bidder status for Colchester the portfolio remained in planning.
Over the - Excludes projects developed by AMEC in the past Hospital, the Docklands Light Railway next few years an increasing number of and sold-on to third parties - Based on planning submissions made or extension to Woolwich Arsenal and South schemes are expected to emerge from management estimates where proposals are at an earlier stage Lanarkshire Schools.
In total these projects planning, enabling AMEC to commence - Developments aresubject to environmental and have a value to AMEC in excess of 600 planning risk until fully consented andto delaysin construction and to release value from its the commissioning of the national grid infrastructure million.
AMEC is also at preferred bidder onshore portfolio.
needed to support renewable energy expansion 30 AMEC plc annual report 2004 Outlook for 2005 Orders Outlook Movement relative Order intake in the ETS business continues The board remains confident that each of to 2004 profit base Rail Maintenance to exceed sales, whilst the year-end order AMECs three business segments will deliver Spie Batignolles book in AMECs Oil and Gas and Projects further growth in 2005 in line with its earlier North American industrial markets Solutions businesses remained solid at expectations, even after the transfer of UK Increased contribution from 2.4 billion 2003: 2.4 billion.
rail maintenance contracts to Network Rail Iraq and the disposal of Spie Batignolles, which Impact of Placing The quality and volume of the order book Acquisition of Paragon together represented about 10 million Houston Oil and Gas in Oil and Gas has improved over the last of total operating profit in 2004.
Growth across all business 12 months, with large project delivery segments contracts being replaced by higher margin, lower risk services activities.
The year-end order book in Oil and Gas stood at 1.3 billion 2003: 1.2 billion, whilst Project Solutions recorded 1.1 billion 2003: 1.2 billion.
Sir Peter Mason KBE Chief executive Sustainability 10 March 2005 2004 was a year of progress, with improvements in our overall performance in health and safety, environment, community and employment.
However, it is really unacceptable that the number of fatalities at work increased compared to the previous year and yet further efforts are being taken to ensure a safer year in 2005.
An overview of 2004 appears on page 21 of this report and the sustainability report will be published in late April 2005.
