06 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT page six INNOVATIVE APPLICATIONS FOR HEALTHCARE COMMUNITIES 07 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT page seven INVESTMENT IN MODERN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS IS RECOGNISED AS A KEY TOOL IN THE EFFICIENT ORGANISATION AND DELIVERY OF CARE A YEAR OF CONSIDERABLE PROGRESS emphasise intermediate, community and iSOFT applications remain positively The year ended 30 April 2004 was a domiciliary care.
Realising the benefits of differentiated from competitor offerings period of considerable progress for the connecting up individual healthcare as a result of constant innovation in iSOFT business.
Group revenues grew providers and establishing an effective architecture, functionality, utility and the 63.1% to 149.3m, with the normalised supply chain of services across entire effective use of technology.
operating profit result of 39.5m healthcare communities therefore LORENZO, our latest generation representing an increase of 54.4% from represents the principal objective of these application, addresses fully the the previous year.
administrative and clinical information Strong operating cash generation together Importantly, investment in modern management requirements of the modern with the sale of the former Torex Retail information technology solutions is healthcare economy.
Division in February 2004 contributed to a recognised as a key tool in the efficient Our ability to maintain this leadership is net cash generation before financing of organisation and delivery of care.
due to the expert analysis and design 71.6m.
As a result we are pleased to With the administrative and clinical capability across the Groups international report a year end net cash position of practice of medicine largely common operations and, significantly, the strength 3.8m.
This balance sheet strength will around the world, new generation software of our dedicated offshore software help the Group take advantage of new applications that support the capture, application development centre in Chennai, business development opportunities as collation, processing, distribution and India.
Established in January 2001, this they present themselves.
presentation of information for all those centre is responsible for software code involved in the delivery of healthcare in a development and maintenance for all In addition to the positive financial given community are in great demand in strategic applications.
performance, this year has seen a clear each of the major healthcare economies.
strengthening of our position in the The centre represents a major competitive At the heart of this new information international healthcare applications advantage by bringing world class systems requirement is the introduction market.
The recent successes in major technology solutions to market with of comprehensive electronic health records regional and national procurements unprecedented speed.
As a result, we will for citizens.
have established iSOFT as one of the continue our commitment to building our leading international healthcare The requirement for healthcare information offshore capability aggressively over the application suppliers.
services to have extended reach across course of the next few years.
communities has led to the procurement of THE INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE A SUBSTANTIAL these solutions being conducted on a APPLICATIONS MARKET ESTABLISHED BUSINESS scaled-up, regional, or even national, The need to cap the rate of growth in the The iSOFT business has established a basis.
This represents a significant cost of providing healthcare services, substantial presence in a number of international opportunity for a leading whilst at the same time delivering against international healthcare systems markets.
modern applications expert, such as iSOFT.
patient demands for improvement in the At the date of this Annual Report, more quality and effectiveness of the healthcare DEVELOPING MODERN than 1,500 hospital organisations and treatments they receive, is a challenge INNOVATIVE APPLICATIONS other healthcare institutions together with facing every modern economy.
The success of the iSOFT business to over 5,000 primary care physicians date, and the ability to capitalise on the depend on iSOFT applications to deliver The answer lies in identifying ways to significant market opportunity now care.
This user base extends into 14 improve efficiency and reduce the burden available to us, depends principally on the countries, with representation on on expensive, scarce resources.
In order strength of our application offering.
to meet this objective, healthcare delivery networks are forming that are designed to reduce the load on acute services and stated before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items 08 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT page eight The NHS National Programme for Given the widespread healthcare IT reform In summary, we expect over the course of Information Technology NPfIT in England, agenda and the international attractiveness the next year to sustain good growth and provided an opportunity to test the strength of our application offering, the iSOFT position the Group for further acceleration of the iSOFT application proposition against business is certainly not opportunity of that growth in future years.
a shortlist of the other leading international constrained.
As we plan and prepare for The opportunity now clearly exists for healthcare application vendors.
This further geographic expansion, the challenge iSOFT to realise its ambition of being the procurement process represented arguably is for us to grow our analytical capability global leader in the provision of the stiffest test ever applied to the array of and maintain our capacity to execute.
We look forward international suppliers who lay claim to Over the years we have developed with confidence.
having advanced application solutions considerable experience of operating both relevant to the needs of modern with third party service organisations, as healthcare economies.
distributors of our product, and with an The selection approach addressed not acquisition-led approach to entering a new Tim Whiston only the scope of the functional geographic market.
The decision on Chief Executive Officer requirements of healthcare applications, whether to partner, to acquire or to adopt a but also their large scale implementation combined strategy will be taken on a and system performance capabilities.
region-by-region basis to ensure that the preferred approach represents that best Our significant success in securing the suited to the characteristics of a application provider role in three of the particular market.
five regional contracts awarded under the NPfIT procurement is testimony to the A key test applied by iSOFT when completeness and competitiveness of our evaluating a new geography is whether the applications.
It has created an extremely opportunity exists to establish a meaningful strong international reference for iSOFT market share in a short period of time and and has stimulated a significant amount in doing so gain early traction in generating of interest from healthcare economies an appropriate financial return relative to around the world that are considering the cost of market entry.
similar IT reform initiatives and We will continue to apply this test associated procurements.
rigorously when identifying relevant NEW INTERNATIONAL new markets.
MARKET OPPORTUNITIES OUTLOOK The success of iSOFTs international Over the course of the next twelve months expansion to date evidences the quality of we will, in the first instance, develop our the upfront analysis performed on any business interests in our established prospective individual market opportunity, geographic markets and in doing so drive the rigour applied in identifying the most the further organic growth of our business.
effective means of entry and our strong track record of execution.
We will complete are preparation for the launch of LORENZO in a number of new geographic markets and, as part of this preparation, confirm the most appropriate means of entry and development of those markets.
09 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT page nine INNOVATIVE APPLICATIONS FOR HEALTHCARE COMMUNITIES
