03 Chief Executives review Results and advertising revenue dividend of 0.5 pence per share paid The 49% growth in pro forma on 1 July 2004 in respect of the three operating EBITA in 2004 has resulted months to 31 December 2003. from a combination of growing Over the medium term, the Company revenues and reducing costs which intends to re-balance the respective have signicantly increased our levels of interim and final dividend operating margin.
ITV plcs advertising such that the interim represents revenue in 2004 across the Family of approximately one-third of the total Channels ITV1, ITV2, ITV3, and the dividend.
Increases in final dividends, ITV News Channel including GMTV such as this years, in the absence was up 4.7% at 1,588 million of any unforeseen circumstances, with ITV2 revenue rising strongly.
are therefore likely to be greater ITV3 commenced broadcasting in than increases in interim dividends November 2004, and its revenue in order to achieve that objective.
In 2005 ITV is celebrating contribution will rise in 2005 as two anniversaries: advertisers are attracted by its Schedule performance we are entering the year of ITVs excellent ratings performance.
ITVs viewing performance is 50th anniversary, with ITV1 rmly Each of our top five advertiser dependent upon the quality and established as the UKs number one categories was up in 2004 retail, popular appeal of its programmes, commercial channel, and with ITV2 food, entertainment and leisure, both those produced internally and and ITV3 rapidly growing both cars and finance.
those commissioned from independent audience and revenues: and producers.
For ITV1 we remain Sponsorship revenue was also we have just completed our first committed to commissioning the improved at 37 million in the year.
year as a single, unied company best possible programmes to attract and during that period we have Operating profit on a pro forma basis our mass audiences.
For ITV2 streamlined and improved our before amortisation and exceptional and ITV3 we intend to develop operations and delivered cost items was up by 49% to 325 million our programme offering, increasing savings ahead of expectations in for the year.
After tax and minority the level of investment and targeting both speed and amount.
interests, earnings per share on the additional acquired material over the same basis were up by 76% to coming months.
I am very pleased that we have, with 6.3 pence per ordinary share.
the support of the Board, achieved so In the two months following the The improved profits resulted in a much over the last 12 months since launch of ITV3 at the beginning of strong, positive cash ow with net completing the merger, which created November 2004 the combined ITV1, cash inow from operating activities ITV plc on 2 February 2004.
In the ITV2, ITV3 and ITV News Channel of 321 million.
Operating Review in this report there is attracted a 45.0% share of all a lot more detail on the programming We have disposed of a number of commercial impacts on UK television, successes and the development of the non-core businesses raising more compared to 44.7% in the same business over the last year.
Here I will than 270 million which, together period in 2003 one commercial focus on the principal factors affecting with good operating cash ow, results impact being one person viewing one the Company, our people, and the in our having a strong balance sheet 30 second advertisement.
The very outlook for the future.
with closing net debt of 280 million.
rapid take-up of digital multichannel television in the UK, especially the The final dividend of 1.3 pence per spectacular growth of Freeview, share will be paid on 1 July 2005 helped the strong growth of ITV2 to shareholders on the register on and ITV3 during that period.
22 April 2005 and the ex-dividend date will be 20 April 2005.
The interim and final dividends for 2004 are 1.1 pence and 1.3 pence respectively excluding the first interim... astrategy for the future.
04 ITV plc Annual report 04 Chief Executives review We are embracing the rapid change Programming towards a fully digital multichannel Granada, ITVs production arm, environment, and are most supportive continued to be the most significant of Freeview which offers the simplest supplier of programmes internally to upgrade route for our viewers.
ITV1, ITV2 and ITV3, and is a major The development of our ITV Family of supplier to many other broadcasters Channels will strengthen our business in the UK and internationally.
In 2004 total external sales were Our autumn schedule on ITV1 267 million made up of: original performed well, as we had expected, productions for the UK and overseas with a strong line-up of returning markets of 102 million: the hits including another series of distribution and exploitation of rights Im A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!
and products of 109 million: and in late November.
ITV2 has been facilities and education turnover of achieving a 2.4% average viewing 56 million.
share of its important 16-34 target We have improved our profit demographic.
ITV3, which targets margins by concentrating on high a 35 demographic, has been value programmes, and we have attracting an average 1.1% share substantially increased our international of ABC1 adults during its first three production slate with a number of months of transmission.
returning shows and formats such ITV overall screened six of the as Nanny 911 in the US and top ten performing programmes in Hells Kitchen.
2004, or seven of them excluding sports programmes.
Regulation At the same time that ITV plc was The all time commercial viewing being created, so too was our regulator share of the ITV Family of Channels Ofcom as five separate regulators in multichannel homes over the first became one on 29 December 2003. six weeks of 2005 was 29.5%.
We have developed a working Compared to the same period in relationship with Ofcom during 2004 2004 this was 4% lower mainly as a which is essential for the many result of the very high viewing shares regulatory processes and reviews due achieved in 2004 for the third series of in 2005 and beyond.
Following the Im A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!
grant in December 2004 of our new digital broadcasting licences for ITV1 replacing the old analogue licences these processes now include: the review of the financial terms of our ITV1 licences from 2005: Ofcoms review of Public Service Broadcasting PSB and their forthcoming review of television advertising: and ongoing discussions about how the regulation of television generally should develop to be appropriate Looking forward ITVs strategy for growth to the changing media landscape.
Lead and grow UK commercial TV market Promote effectiveness of TV advertising Strengthen ITVs Family of Channels Develop content production To be Europes leading commercial content provider Create new content for new technologies Increase revenue streams beyond spot advertising 05 The first issue the review of the The Contract Rights Renewal CRR Outlook financial terms of our ITV licences remedy, under which we operate, 2005 has started strongly.
With Easter is due for decision in the summer and governs the sale of ITV1 airtime.
falling in March this year rather than will be effective from 1 January 2005.
Airtime in the UK is sold via the April in 2004, March revenues have The licence fee structure dates from Station Average Price mechanism, benefited from those advertisers the time that ITV1 was the UKs sole which was established by the market, who seek Easter airtime.
This has commercial television station, and not ITV alone.
contributed to ITV plcs first quarter there was value in the scarcity of revenues across all the ITV Family Ofcom have indicated that they are spectrum allocated for television of Channels, including a first time planning to hold a review of the airtime broadcasting.
Today there are many contribution from GMTV, being up sales market, and we are keen to work hundreds of TV channels available in by 56 million which is a very with them in identifying other airtime the UK and yet in 2004, ITV1 paid a encouraging start to the year.
licence fee net of the digital licence Within that, ITV2 advertising revenues rebate of 204 million.
Channel Five Alongside those reviews we are also have grown very strongly in the quarter by contrast paid less than 20 million seeking to promote discussions about to March 2005, up by 90% on 2004, and none of C4, the BBC, BSkyB nor other areas of regulation.
Firstly, there whilst ITV3 has made a first time any other broadcaster paid any such are already significant differences contribution.
Achieving an equitable between the form of advertising outcome to this review is one of our and sponsorship that is currently Under the CRR remedy we have short term priorities for 2005. permitted in America on one hand and been engaged with our advertising in the UK and Europe on the other.
customers in completing their Many of the potential regulatory Secondly, television is an evolving advertising contracts for 2005. opportunities, however, lie beyond medium and the effects of interactivity, We have been very pleased with the 2005.
We expect the review of Public PVRs, broadband and mobile level of support from many of those Service Broadcasting to be ongoing, distribution, all create possibilities customers in renewing their contracts.
with progressive reductions in the which the current regulation never level of our mandated programming.
We will work with our Summary This reects an acknowledgement that, regulators to ensure that the regulatory We have achieved a great deal during as we move to a digital multichannel environment evolves at the same rate 2004 having made One ITV a reality.
world, there is more choice already as the medium and technology We have now delivered increased available to viewers and less reason to themselves evolve.
revenue, reduced costs, a more require such PSB programming of one efficient structure and a very significant commercial broadcaster and not of improvement in both profit and cash others.
A first step this year will see the ow.
Our executives and employees mandated hours of non-news regional have been key to that process, both programming reduced by 1.5 hours achieving the aggressive targets set per week in the English regions and for them and identifying further actions reducing further in 2008.
We remain that have helped to exceed those committed to producing much of our targets in many areas.
network programming in the regions, but our viewers do not recognise the I would like both to thank them for benefit of non-news regional that, and to say how pleased I am programmes as a separate product.
that, as we now move to the next phase of developing ITVs business for the future, we will continue to have such talented people supporting us in those efforts.
Charles Allen CBE Chief Executive
