Chairmans Statement The companys most important investment will always be the one it makes in its people.
We place an absolute priority on the continuing development of our management talent and the skills of all our employees.
Michael Miles OBE Chairman I am pleased to report to shareholders that despite some quite strong headwinds, generated by the weak US dollar and the challenging conditions in some of our markets, Johnson Matthey made good progress in 2003 04.
The boards commitment to investment in research & development and manufacturing technology has enabled the company to remain at the forefront of the high technology industries that it serves and to continue its record of growth.
In 2003 04 we took a number of important steps in the strategic development of the group.
The former Synetix businesses, which were acquired from ICI last year, have been successfully integrated into Johnson Mattheys Process Catalysts and Technologies business.
These businesses have not only made a good contribution to the year but provide important opportunities for the groups future growth, especially in catalysts for the emerging gas to liquids market, an area where we have begun a significant programme of investment.
The year also witnessed a further example of our strategy of making bolt-on acquisitions in core areas of activity with the acquisition of AMC in the United States which further enhances Catalysts Divisions product portfolio.
The board is also committed to investment in growth markets around the world.
Asia continues to be a major focus.
In Shanghai, we are increasing capacity at our autocatalyst manufacturing facility to serve the rapidly growing Chinese vehicle market.
In Japan, we achieved significant sales of retrofit heavy duty diesel catalysts.
In India, we constructed a new platinum group metal catalyst manufacturing facility to serve the fast growing pharmaceutical and speciality chemical markets in that region.
The companys most important investment will always be the one it makes in its people.
We place an absolute priority on the continuing development of our management talent and the skills of all our employees to enable them to perform to the highest standards to meet the challenges of the future.
On behalf of the board I would like to thank all of our employees around the world for their hard work and dedication during the year.
Johnson Matthey 2 I would like to welcome two new executive directors Your board is fully committed to reporting on Johnson who joined the board in August 2003: Pelham Hawker, Mattheys corporate social responsibility performance.
Once Executive Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies again, this years annual report features a review of the and Larry Pentz, Executive Director, Process Catalysts and companys policies and performance in this important area.
Both have made important contributions to This is to be found on pages 24 to 28.
Our comprehensive recent developments in Johnson Mattheys Catalysts Division.
web based corporate social responsibility report was Pelham has overseen a period of strong growth and published last year for the first time.
This report has been very technological change in our autocatalyst business and Larry well received and has generated a good deal of valuable has undertaken a leading role in the successful integration of feedback from shareholders.
The 2004 edition of our the former Synetix businesses since their acquisition from ICI.
corporate social responsibility report can be accessed on Johnson Matthey is very fortunate to have a strong group Johnson Mattheys corporate website at www.
of independent directors who bring to the board many years I am very pleased that Johnson Matthey continues to of invaluable experience of international business from across make good progress towards our goal of delivering superior a wide range of industrial sectors.
I would also like to thank shareholder value.
I remain confident that with our talented them for their valuable contribution during the year.
staff and our commitment to investment in research & In July 2003 we announced that Chris Clark, our Chief development and world leading manufacturing technology, Executive, will retire following this years Annual General your company is well positioned to deliver continued growth Meeting in July after 42 years with Johnson Matthey, the last in the years ahead.
Chris has had a long and distinguished career with Johnson Matthey since joining the company in 1962.
He has great experience of all of the groups operations and has run all of its major businesses.
Chris has made an outstanding contribution to Johnson Matthey.
As Chief Executive he has overseen the evolution of the group into a world leading speciality chemicals company.
Through his Michael Miles OBE strong leadership, Chris has steered the company through a Chairman successful period of strategic change and growth.
As I said at the time of his appointment as Chief Executive in June 1998, I can think of no person better suited to have undertaken this task.
On behalf of the whole board, and indeed all of us at Johnson Matthey, I would like to thank Chris for the key role that he has played in the development and success of the group and wish him all the best for a well deserved, long and very happy retirement.
As we also announced last July, Chris Clark will be succeeded as Chief Executive by Neil Carson, Executive Director, Catalysts and Precious Metals.
Neil has 23 years of experience of working at Johnson Matthey and will be an excellent successor to Chris.
The board is particularly pleased to have been able to appoint its new Chief Executive from within the company.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 3 Chief Executives Statement Johnson Matthey made good progress in 2003 04.
Operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation was 9% up on prior year despite the fall in the value of the US dollar.
Chris Clark Chief Executive Johnson Matthey made good progress in 2003 04.
Both Catalysts and Pharmaceutical Materials divisions achieved 15% profit growth.
We continue to see excellent prospects for both these divisions and we have increased our investment in research and development to take full advantage of anticipated market growth over the next few years.
Our Catalysts Division has leading positions in market segments which will expand rapidly in the next few years.
These include catalysts for heavy duty diesel HDD emission control, where legislation is due to take full effect in 2007 in the USA and 2008 in Europe, and catalysts for the gas to liquids process which uses a series of different catalytic steps to convert stranded natural gas to sulphur free diesel fuel.
We are increasing our investment in R&D to support these opportunities, and are also selectively looking at possible acquisitions to expand our range of catalyst products.
We are pleased to have concluded the acquisition of AMC in March 2004, which strengthens our position in the pharmaceutical and speciality chemicals catalyst markets.
As well as growing revenues we are also focusing on improving efficiency.
In these results we have taken a 12.7 million exceptional provision to improve efficiency across the Catalysts Division.
One element of this relates to restructuring our platinum group metal pgm refining business, which has been adversely affected by the downturn in the palladium market.
In addition, we will be phasing out our older autocatalyst manufacturing process technology now that precision coating technology has been fully installed in all our worldwide autocatalyst manufacturing plants.
We expect this rationalisation programme to reduce costs in the division by 8 million in 2005 06.
Diesel emission control continues to be a focus for environmentalists and regulators worldwide and remains a key priority for us.
The market for diesel cars is mainly in Europe where we have increased our market share.
Whilst oxidation catalysts remain the key current product, there is growing interest in the use of soot filter technology for particulate emission control and we have been nominated for several important customer programmes.
Johnson Matthey 4 Worldwide, Johnson Mattheys award winning world class fuel cell industry in the United Kingdom.
This grant Continuously Regenerating Trap CRT technology is the has been given for a major three year programme to develop most widely used method of controlling particulate emissions the next generation of MEAs for automotive applications and from heavy duty diesel vehicles already on the road.
New will see the Fuel Cells business working in collaboration with a regulations in both Europe and the USA will drive the need number of key suppliers as well as leading global automobile for engine makers to fit catalyst technologies to new HDD manufacturers.
In the last few years we have We announced in November 2003 that we had renewed increased the resource needed to support these customers our long term contracts with Anglo Platinum which extends and the benefits of this strategy are now coming through in the relationship well into the next decade.
The revised terms contracts for future business.
of these renewed contracts came into effect on 1st January The acquisition of Synetix from ICI in 2002 has led to a 2004 and resulted in a reduction in Precious Metals Divisions major expansion of Process Catalysts and Technologies PCT.
income in the final quarter of roughly 1.5 million.
As demand The former Synetix businesses are now fully integrated and for platinum grows this shortfall will be more than offset by we are building on the opportunities presented by merging increased volumes, and the renewed contracts with Anglo Johnson Mattheys leading precious metals catalysis technology Platinum firmly underpin the longer term growth of the division.
with Synetixs leading base metals catalyst technology.
One The fundamentals for platinum remain very robust.
example of this is the opening in May 2004 of a new precious Demand will continue to be driven by its use in autocatalysts, metals catalyst manufacturing facility at Taloja in India.
The particularly as diesels continue to take a growing share of the acquisition of ICI Indias catalyst business provided Johnson light duty vehicle market in Europe and as heavy duty diesel Matthey with a strong presence in base metal catalysts in the legislation begins to take effect around the world.
While region, to which we have now been able to add precious jewellery demand has been impacted by the high price of metals catalyst manufacturing.
platinum, it remains remarkably resilient and we are seeing The acquisition of AMC for $43 million in March 2004 signs of improved demand from the manufacturers.
The was another important step in strengthening our position in platinum producers are increasing their output to meet this the worldwide catalyst market.
AMC is based in Tennessee, growing demand and move the market closer to equilibrium.
USA and is the global market leader in Sponge Nickel Palladium demand is also expected to increase, benefiting catalysts.
These nickel catalysts are extensively used in from growth in consumption by the auto manufacturers.
hydrogenation and reductive alkylation reactions throughout However, supplies are expected to rise substantially as South the pharmaceutical industry as well as in a wide range of African producers expand their output and the palladium other chemical processes.
They are often the first catalyst market is expected to continue to remain in surplus.
to be evaluated when designing a new process and the As we also announced in November, the Board has acquisition widens our catalyst product offering to this reviewed the groups strategy for the Structural Ceramics and important market.
Speciality Coatings businesses which form the majority of The Fuel Cells business continues to make encouraging Colours & Coatings Division.
A process is now underway to progress both in the scale up of membrane electrode consider offers for those two businesses.
We expect to make assembly MEA manufacturing at its facility in Swindon, UK a further announcement in the next few months.
and in collaborative programmes with key customers and Pharmaceutical Materials Division enjoyed another very suppliers.
Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells has been awarded successful year.
At West Deptford in the USA we have 3.2 million in funding by the Department of Trade and expanded the product range with two new platinum Industry as part of the Governments commitment to the anticancer products performing well in 2003 04.
The patent development of renewable energy and to the building of a for carboplatin which we manufacture for Bristol-Myers Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5
