Chairmans Statement continued Progress Johnston Press has been serving local communities for As I have said in a number more than 150 years and for most of that time our medium has been printed paper.
In the Groups early years this was of previous annual reports, simple text: later it was enhanced by black and white photography and, in recent years, by full colour presentations life is local and it is this of text, photography and graphics.
Increasingly, websites and mobile services are becoming an important part of our reality that drives our strategic offering, both to advertisers and to readers.
approach, both online and Initially we took a very cautious approach to the internet in print boom, waiting to see exactly how the technology and human behaviour would develop.
We now have a clear picture of what we believe is the right way forward for a Group which serves local communities.
Strategy We are developing a family of websites which have common Going forward, our strategy is to build on our strengths as technology and functionality but each of which is focused on a local publisher.
Whilst we recognise that there are significant the needs of its own local community.
These websites enable technology changes going on, particularly in the online area, us to provide a service of news, information and entertainment, we remain convinced that fundamental human behaviour and which supplements our daily and weekly printed publications.
human needs are not going to change.
As I have said in a In addition, we have invested significantly in the technology to number of previous annual reports, life is local and it is this offer targeted and effective classified advertising on the web.
reality that drives our strategic approach, both online and in print.
We see web-based classified advertising as both a complement to, and an enhancement of, traditional print We believe it will be possible for us to participate in the advertising.
Your Board believes that our development of two anticipated further consolidation of the local publishing mutually supporting media will form a sustainable and robust industry.
Economists and competition experts are increasingly business model for the future.
recognising that, in terms of advertising revenues, newspapers compete with a variety of media and that, so far as plurality of editorial voice is concerned, this can be achieved just as well, indeed, sometimes far better, under a small number of owners than it can under diverse, fragmented and under-resourced ownership conditions.
Johnston Press plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Accordingly, we are confident that we have significant Prospects sources of future growth, both through organic development Despite the strength of trading in 2004 making for tough of our existing franchises and the acquisition of new ones.
comparisons, looking forward your Board expects to see another year of growth in advertising and other revenue Board streams.
We will also continue to invest heavily in editorial I am delighted to be able to announce the appointment of resources, printing, distribution and online technology.
These Les Hinton as an independent non-executive Director.
He has factors, coupled with the tight management of costs, further been in the newspaper industry for more than 40 years and, efficiency gains and actions to offset the increase in newsprint as Executive Chairman of News International, brings an prices, should lead to another year of satisfactory progress extraordinary wealth of publishing experience to Johnston for the Group in 2005.
It is also a great pleasure to announce the appointment of Danny Cammiade as an executive Director in the role of Chief Operating Officer.
He has made a major contribution to the success of Johnston Press and plays a central role in continuing to drive the business forward.
Your Board consists of five independent non-executives, two non-executives representing the Johnston family interest, three executives and myself.
Lord Gordon, one of our Roger PARRY independent non-executive directors, will have completed Chairman 9 years service at this years AGM, but the Board remains 16 March 2005 entirely satisfied that he is independent.
Johnston Press remains fully compliant with all aspects of the Combined Code.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200413 Johnston Press plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Chief Executive Officers Review Another record set of results in 2004 Tim Bowdler Chief Executive Officer Johnston Press produced another record set of results in 2004, benefiting from our extensive portfolio of well recognised market leading brands across numerous local communities around the UK.
The year has witnessed a growing focus throughout the Group on the achievement of stronger organic revenue growth coupled with continuing improvements in business efficiency through ongoing investments in IT systems.
The results for the year ended 31 December 2004 demonstrate the effectiveness of a strategy which remains closely focused on our core business of local community publishing in the UK.
Strategic Overview The concept of Life is Local continues to provide the underlying strategic logic for Johnston Press.
Extensive research commissioned by the Newspaper Society, the industrys trade association, consistently illustrates the intensely local focus of peoples lives covering a wide spectrum of activities including work, shopping, leisure and socialising.
Our operations are closely shaped to reflect this important tendency, serving numerous local communities across the UK with a variety of print and online publications.
In turn, our business substantially reflects the performance of a myriad of distinct and separate local economies.
The resultant underpinning drivers which power our activities are consumer confidence, the property market and employment levels.
With the ongoing satisfactory performance of the UK economy as a whole, these factors continue to provide a solid foundation for our business.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200415 Chief Executive Officers Review continued This has resulted in a high performing core business which 15% market share.
There has been relatively little corporate is well placed to achieve further growth.
It also provides activity and few ownership changes, with Johnston Press an excellent platform from which to launch new initiatives making no newspaper acquisitions during the year.
However, whether these are in the form of new print publications, this should not be taken to suggest that continued industry websites or related local ventures.
An important such initiative consolidation is unlikely.
We firmly believe that there will be at the end of 2004 has been the establishment of a new more ownership changes in the future and that further publishing division, known as JP Ventures, bringing together industry consolidation will be permitted by the regulators, various non-local newspaper businesses including Outbound although the timing of such changes cannot be predicted.
Publishing emigration newspapers and overseas property magazines, Off Road Publications Dirt Bike Rider and Trials The disposal of our 33% holding in Two Boroughs Radio & Motorcross News, Letterbox Direct door-to-door leaflet in Burnley was completed during the year.
Underlining our delivery, and Days Out UK leisure guide.
It is anticipated focused approach, this disposal completes our withdrawal that the resulting heightened focus on these businesses will from all the local radio activities which were acquired with drive further opportunities for growth.
Already in late 2004, Regional Independent Media Holdings Limited RIM in 2002. we completed the acquisition of Offer Pack, a small business which specialises in the design and door-to-door distribution The improved use of IT will continue to play a vital part in of packaged special offer coupons to promote local retailers the ongoing enhancement of operating performance and and services.
we have invested heavily in IT systems and related hardware, in order to drive business efficiency and improve customer service.
Hand-in-hand with these IT investments has been the continued development of our printing capability, During the year, we have also especially with regard to the installation of additional revenue-earning colour capacity.
Whilst our focus remains launched a large number of on the provision of appropriate print capacity for our own new publications in pursuit of needs, we have entered into long-term 15-year contracts to print News International NI titles at our new Sheffield a strategy which is aimed at facility and, conditional upon planning consent, at Portsmouth.
The opportunity to secure such valuable layering our local markets contracts will benefit the Group financially and in terms of enhanced press capability.
During the year, we have also launched a large number The broad geographic spread of our local publishing of new publications in pursuit of a strategy which is aimed activities, together with the sound structure of the Group at layering our local markets with a range of newspapers, which has been developed over many years by a combination specialist print publications and local websites.
This strategy of steady organic improvement and judicious acquisitive will ensure that we are in a position to offer advertisers an expansion, provide the Group with an excellent foundation increasing variety of channels to promote their goods and from which to achieve continued growth.
services to local communities, improving targeting and maximising market penetration.
Noteworthy during 2004 Trading Performance has been the launch of more than 20 lifestyle and specialist 2004 was a 53-week financial year for Johnston Press and, publications, the introduction of six regional editions of Jobs in order to enable meaningful comparisons, the figures Today, a new weekly recruitment title branded to mirror our quoted in this section are on a like-for-like 52-week basis, online jobs site and a similar initiative for regional property as explained in the Financial Review.
Advertising revenue growth in 2004 was stronger than The industry structure has remained substantially unchanged expected, ending the year 5.5% ahead, comprising 6.0% during the past 12 months, with the four largest publishers growth in the first half and 5.0% in the second.
The accounting for approximately 73% of total copies distributed performance in the latter part of the year was particularly or sold.
Johnston Press remains fourth largest with about pleasing as the corresponding periods comparatives were Johnston Press plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 significantly stronger than earlier in the year.
The outcome Property advertising had another excellent year with first reflects the benefits of our broad spread of market leading and second half growth rates of 4.7% and 15.2% respectively.
publications across a widely dispersed geographic base.
The acceleration witnessed in the second half reflects the need for vendors to work harder in a slowing market place With the sole exception of motors advertising, the which also encouraged the house-builders to increase their second half followed the pattern of the first in which every advertising exposure.
Growth was lower in the South and advertising category grew.
This was achieved entirely as South Midlands regions than elsewhere.
a result of volume growth, with yields remaining static, despite the benefit of additional premium-priced colour After marginal growth of 0.4% in the first half, motors advertising and normal rate-card increases.
This outcome advertising declined in the second by 3.0%.
This remains reflects the launch of additional lower yielding recruitment our toughest market sector, adversely affected by continuing and property publications using repurposed advertising dealer consolidation and a number of initiatives are being content, together with the robust growth of property pursued to improve performance.
Revenues were patchy advertising, the lowest yielding category.
with no particular regional trends.
The rate of recruitment advertising growth was strong The Other Classifieds category grew well in both halves throughout, though lower in the second half at 6.6% at rates of 3.3% and 5.6% respectively.
This category compared with 13.3% in the first.
This reflects the more comprises a variety of advertising sources, including challenging second half comparatives, but demonstrates entertainments, family announcements, public notices a very satisfying underlying performance.
In very broad and general classifieds.
Each of these segments grew terms, growth was stronger in the north of the country with entertainments and family announcements being the than in the south, although there were several exceptions strongest.
There was no particular geographic pattern, to the general pattern.
although the south coast performed best.
JP Ventures New Publishing division including: Emigration newspapers and overseas property magazines Off road publications Door-to-door leaflet delivery Days Out UK leisure guide Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200417 Chief Executive Officers Review continued The rate of growth for display advertising was 2.0% in the second half, following an increase of 3.4% in the first.
The second half comparatives were more difficult due to the return of heavier supermarket advertising in the corresponding New period last year following the conclusion of the Competition Commission inquiry into the acquisition of Safeway and a more general improvement following a lull in activity during Publications the Iraqi conflict.
There were no obvious regional trends.
In overall terms, total advertising revenue growth was generally stronger in the north of the country than in the south, with the best increases being achieved by the Northeast and North of England Yorkshire divisions.
However, outside those two regions, there were no major variances.
Operating margins for the Group, before operating exceptional items, were again ahead of the previous year with an increase from 33.1% to 34.0% and every division increased its operating profit.
This outcome again demonstrates the ability of Johnston Press to convert modest revenue growth into a much stronger profit performance and reflects excellent cost control, aided by ongoing investments in IT systems, with the additional benefit of stable newsprint prices.
Operating Review Even greater emphasis is now being placed on the achievement of organic revenue growth.
Advertising directors from around the Group meet regularly to review best practice and to discuss the development of new revenue generating ideas.
This process has been reinforced by the recent appointment of an experienced senior executive to oversee these efforts.
The Johnston Press intranet based ADS4U system, which provides an extensive database of advertising ideas and creative copy, is available to all of our advertising staff and is now being used extensively to generate additional revenues.
During the year, we have also launched an unprecedented number of new publications.
Amongst these we have introduced 14 lifestyle publications.
Being high quality glossy colour magazines, these have enabled us to attract advertisers who would not normally use our newspaper titles and, in turn, this has added value to the newspapers into which these magazines are inserted.
We have also launched a number of specialist publications aimed at specific market segments.
Examples include two annual magazines launched in the Northwest targeted respectively at the youth fashion market and teenagers in Johnston Press plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 the 16-18 age bracket.
Following further launches, South titles.
Successes in 2004 included Procter & Gamble, Yorkshire Newspapers, based in Doncaster, now has 7 monthly Nestl and Jet 2, one of several low-cost airlines now using free newspapers dedicated to small communities such as the regional press.
We also launched a series of focused Rossington and Bawtry.
This format almost literally brings Group-wide advertising supplements to attract new national local news to the parish-pump and also provides the business, the first of these being dedicated to Euro 2004. smallest local advertisers with a viable platform.
We are seeking to extend this initiative elsewhere around the Group.
Distinct from print publications, we have also achieved A new weekly free newspaper was launched in Milton strong growth from a number of related local events and Keynes to supplement the previous twice-weekly publishing services.
The delivery of leaflets door-to-door, often in portfolio in order to meet the demands of this rapidly conjunction with our own free newspapers, is an important growing city.
In pursuit of significant revenue growth, we and growing revenue source, accounting for 13.3 million have almost trebled the pagination and distribution of our in the year, representing a growth of 14%.
In order to Lincoln-based free newspaper from its previous levels.
capitalise better on this opportunity, we are gradually switching the management of this activity from our local companies to Letterbox Direct, a dedicated leaflet delivery operation acquired as part of RIM.
Revenues from local Another important development exhibitions, including such events as job fairs, motor shows and wedding fairs have increased by 4% and provide an during 2004 was the launch of opportunity for greater growth around the Group.
Reader Holidays, which we package and promote through our a number of classified advertising newspapers, also grew by 4% and we have created several centres of excellence to service other companies around print publications across wider the Group where this growth opportunity has not as yet been maximised.
Premium line services, primarily for dating geographic regions than any one purposes, grew at 5% and, in response to changing patterns of our individual newspapers serve of usage, we are developing an online service to complement the current print-based offer.
Hand-in-hand with our focus on achieving greater organic Another important development during 2004 was revenue growth are our efforts to maximise the considerable the launch of a number of classified advertising print opportunities which are available through investment in IT publications across wider geographic regions than any systems and related hardware.
The appointment of a Group one of our individual newspapers serve.
Perhaps the most Head of IT, following our acquisition of RIM in 2002, has important of these have been the six regional recruitment brought much increased impetus and improved coordination titles Jobs Today, replicating our online jobs content and to these efforts.
It has resulted in much greater standardisation reinforcing our web-based recruitment brand.
These titles across the Group of the hardware and software we employ, extend the job advertisers reach and generate additional which, in turn, has brought purchasing, operational and cover price revenues.
A similar initiative in respect of our support benefits.
Working closely with our preferred property advertising under the Exclusive Homes brand suppliers of advertising, editorial and sales ledger systems, provides a platform for higher priced properties for sale in we have continued a programme of replacing ageing and various of the regions in which we publish.
disparate systems with common region-wide platforms.
During the year, this has involved new installations in the We are also working more closely than ever with Mediaforce, majority of our regions.
These installations have enabled the independent national sales house which represents all us to consolidate a number of our backroom pre-press Johnston Press titles with national and regional advertising production operations with consequent cost savings.
Mediaforce have offices in London, Birmingham, A new newspaper sales system was installed in the South Manchester and Edinburgh and have represented Johnston of England division during the year and will form the basis Press for a number of years.
Together with Mediaforce, we of an extended common system across the entire Group are making more presentations to agencies and potential which will be rolled out during the current year.
To facilitate new advertisers in an effort to bring new business into our customer service, efficiency and the transfer of advertising Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200419 Chief Executive Officers Review continued content to our websites, we have introduced new software During 2004, we celebrated several important milestones, throughout the Group to deal with property advertising.
perhaps most notably the 250th anniversary of the Yorkshire In an increasing number of locations, this system is now Post.
Other important celebrations included the 150th being used by our estate agent customers to upload their anniversaries of the Whitby Gazette, the Morpeth Herald entire property database which, in turn, has resulted in and Northumberland Gazette, the Grantham Journal, the greater accuracy, later deadlines and increased online Harborough Mail and the Derbyshire Times.
During the year, we also invested in a new payroll involved a dinner for many customers, staff and local and HR system which will give greatly enhanced information personalities at Chatsworth House and we are grateful to to assist management around the Group.
Major improvements the Duke of Devonshire for permitting us to use this are being made to our Group communications infrastructure, wonderful venue.
A number of our newspapers were also including the introduction of voice-over IP telephony.
recognised for their excellence, including the Southern Reporter as Best Paid-for Weekly Newspaper in Scotland, The Groups approach to Health & Safety has been for the third successive year, and the Worksop Guardian as overhauled and upgraded during the year with the introduction Campaigning Newspaper of the Year All weekly paid-for of strengthened operating and reporting procedures.
already at a good standard, this has resulted in a number of additional measures being taken to improve further the Electronic Publishing Groups performance in this critically important area.
There Considerable progress has again been made in terms were very few reportable accidents during the year with of the growth and development of our web-based activities.
The Group now has 182 local websites, an increase of 20 over the course of the year.
Total page impressions grew by 34% to reach 20 million per month.
Total online revenues increased by 17% to 6.3 million.
Sheffield Press Project 10 acre site adjacent to M1 Modern high speed press 100% colour capacity State-of-the-art equipment Johnston Press plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 During the year, our three classified sites, Jobs Today, Printing Motors Today and Property Today, were relaunched after a Further significant progress has been made by our Printing complete overhaul and upgrade.
At any point in time, we Division in improving the quality, reliability and timeliness of now typically carry 12,000 jobs, 200,000 cars and 70,000 our printing operations.
Almost every Johnston Press title is properties for sale.
The functionality and performance of now printed in-house, or at Broughton Printers as part of each site has been substantially improved with the aim of our long-term agreement with the Express Newspapers achieving best-in-class status.
We have also continued the Group.
With our own titles utilising a greater share of total process of building local brand awareness.
Of the many capacity due to increased pagination and colour growth, enhancements made, perhaps the most noteworthy is the third-party print revenue fell slightly when compared with launch of a CV matching service on our Jobs Today site the previous year.
Costs have been well controlled and which is already generating additional revenue from an operating efficiencies further improved.
The launch of Yorkshire Jobs Today, a regional jobs site, has also proved very successful Undoubtedly, the most exciting development in 2004 with site visits and revenues growing strongly.
was the project to build a major new printing centre at Dinnington on the M1, outside Sheffield.
The purchase of The success of our classified websites is very dependent the site was concluded at the year-end and ground works upon the quality of data obtained from advertisers.
In order started at the beginning of 2005.
We were particularly to improve this, we have developed and rolled out a software pleased to announce, in October, a 15-year agreement to interface with our front-end advertising systems, providing print News International NI titles at our new facility.
This our sales staff with a template which facilitates the collection resulted in an increase to the size of the building and press of structured data.
Using this enhanced customer information, such that the total project cost will now be in excess of coupled with similarly improved data about readers, we 60 million.
In February of this year, we announced a similar have introduced a customer relations management CRM arrangement with NI, conditional upon receiving planning programme across the Group, which over time will result in consent, for the redevelopment of our Portsmouth facility, better customer reception and service, match our offers a project which is expected to cost in excess of 45 million.
more closely to customers interests and create opportunities The NI contracts will make a valuable contribution to overall for new revenue streams.
profitability and the resultant printing capacity will greatly enhance the Groups capability, bringing total colour availability to in excess of 80% of capacity.
We plan to increase the level The projects to install additional colour towers at Leeds and Sunderland were completed on budget and to schedule, of investment in our electronic as was the installation of additional colour on a number of the existing Sunderland units.
The introduction of computerpublishing activities and for these to-plate technology at the same sites was also successfully completed with the planned operational improvements to make a growing contribution being achieved.
We continue to review our printing capability to ensure that we are able to meet current and to overall Group performance anticipated customer needs.
Newsprint prices during 2004 remained unchanged from We plan to increase the level of investment in our the previous year but have increased from the beginning of electronic publishing activities and for these to make a 2005.
Measures are already in place which will partially growing contribution to overall Group performance.
have expanded the specialist team based in Peterborough who are responsible for the maintenance and development of our sites.
At local company level, we also have a number of specialist staff to assist in the commercial development of our sites which are very much an integral part of the publishing portfolio of each centre.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200421 Chief Executive Officers Review continued Circulations newspaper sales performance, has also made good For the year as a whole, total circulation revenues increased progress in identifying and encouraging best practice.
by 1.3%, comprising rises of 1.7% and 0.9% in the first This has resulted in beneficial changes to our working and second halves respectively.
We continue to pursue a relationship with newsagents, better use of point of sale conservative policy towards cover prices with 89 of our 119 materials, more effective promotional support and a clearer paid-for titles being increased during 2004.
Circulations of understanding of the effect of differing publishing times on our weekly titles remain satisfactory although, after seven the sale.
In addition, we have increased the number of consecutive years of growth, there was a flattening of added value supplements which are being incorporated into performance.
After an increase of 0.3% in the first half, various of our daily titles in an effort to improve the weekly circulations fell by 0.6% in the second.
Our weekly attractiveness of the newspaper package on each day of titles continue to receive investment in terms of additional the week, thereby encouraging an increase in purchasing colour, pagination and improved content and design.
Whilst none of these actions will result in a rapid Approximately half of the Groups 243 titles are paid-for turnaround, we remain confident that they will contribute to weeklies, more than are owned by any other UK regional an improvement in longer-term performance.
As a result of a decision in the second half to remove Editorial policy guidelines almost all remaining bulk sales from the reported figures, the declared ABC performance for our evening titles showed enshrine the right of editors an average decline of 6.8%.
The underlying figure represents a fall of 4.2%.
This followed a decline of 4.9% in the first to determine both content and half, which equated to a reduction of 3.6% after allowing for a planned reduction in bulks.
Behind those disappointing their editorial approach free headline figures, there were some notably improved performances including a second-half increase of 0.9% from management interference at the Hartlepool Mail and for the Scarborough Evening News, which just fell short of equalling last years sale.
During 2004, we commissioned an extensive market Content research exercise, at a total cost of almost 1 million, The Johnston Press editorial policy guidelines enshrine to research 65 of our titles including 10 of our 15 daily the right of editors to determine both content and their newspapers.
The results to date have been very encouraging editorial approach free from management interference, in terms of indicated readership levels and the percentage subject only to the broadest guidance concerning the of people who turn to our titles first when seeking items to general standards which we expect our newspapers to purchase.
For example, 81% of the people in Blackpool reflect, including observance of the Press Complaints turn to the Blackpool Gazette first when looking for a job Commissions Code of Practice.
Our commitment to and 89% turn to it first for properties.
We also commissioned editorial freedom has been reinforced by the establishment separate market research exercises for two of our dailies, of the Editorial Review Group.
This group, which includes the Sheffield Star and the Yorkshire Post, to probe in detail a number of daily and weekly editors, has a wide ranging the attitudes of readers towards the titles and to understand remit which includes an objective to raise editorial standards, better how our content may need to be adapted to meet to provide expert advice on the recruitment and training of changing needs and tastes.
The approach used in Sheffield editors, to act as a guardian of editorial freedom and to will be used as a template for similar research which we will provide expert advice to Group management on editorial carry out for some of our other daily titles.
Following its development in Sunderland, all of our daily During the course of 2004, our newspapers covered a centres around the Group are now utilising a database vast range of stories and a few illustrative examples follow.
driven approach to data capture to improve our canvassing Additionally, the Corporate Social Responsibility Statement activities and reader retention.
The Groups Daily Newspaper on pages 41 to 45 provides details of the numerous ways in Sales Forum, which is tasked with driving improvements in which our newspapers serve their local communities: in fact, Johnston Press plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 a substantial part of our editorial coverage is devoted to important local issues, campaigns on behalf of communities and to supporting good causes and charitable organisations in their fundraising efforts.
Indeed, many of Campaigning our employees are actively involved in this charitable work, a perfect example of which was the many and varied ways they raised funds for the Tsunami disaster appeals.
Journalism Investigative journalism continues to play an important part in the role of local newspapers.
The Motherwell Times exposed a security blunder which resulted in a prisoner walking free, despite facing further charges.
The Yorkshire Posts investigation into the activities of the BNP persuaded the Prime Minister to condemn the party publicly for the first time.
A series of Sheffield Star reports on policing has been welcomed by the Chief Constable of South Yorkshire as a valuable contribution to the formulation of future policing policies.
Campaigning journalism lies at the very heart of our editorial agenda and forms a vital part of newspaper content.
In Portsmouth, The News, through Last Chance for Justice, continues to seek a specific Arctic Medal for those men who took part in the Arctic campaign of World War II.
The Northumberland Gazette campaigned strongly against an elected Northeast Regional Assembly.
The Cumbernauld News supported a Gulf War veterans successful campaign for a public inquiry into the causes and effects of so-called Gulf War Syndrome.
The Glenrothes Gazette has successfully campaigned for a War Memorial to be erected following the death in Iraq of two Black Watch soldiers from the town.
The Yorkshire Evening Post helped to persuade the Home Secretary to close a loophole in the law which allowed juveniles who cause misery to remain anonymous.
However, the vast majority of our campaigns are devoted to vital local concerns over aspects which impinge directly on peoples everyday lives.
Our newspapers also support numerous appeals, many of which tend to be associated with health-related issues.
However, there are a vast number of others, including, in 2004, a Yorkshire Post appeal which raised 70,000 from readers in just 27 days to help keep the Flying Scotsman, the worlds most famous steam locomotive, in Yorkshire.
Many important national stories start life in the local press.
Perhaps the most notable in 2004 was the Yorkshire Evening Post exclusive concerning the death of Sergeant Steven Roberts, the first British soldier to be killed in Iraq.
Features editor, Anne Pickles, won the trust of Sergeant Roberts widow whose story resulted in a series of exclusive features Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200423
