In 2003 04, our continuing strategy of focusing on what we do best, providing high quality water and waste water services, has again helped us to deliver what we believe is sector leading financial and operational performance.
Delivering more for less is now the major driver for our business and this commitment to efficiency and customer service has enabled us to deliver outperformance over the last year, which provides long term price benefits, improved overall service levels for customers and a solid return for our investors.
By providing value for all, we can also do more to protect and improve our environment, improve customer service and make a contribution to society through education programmes, volunteering and community involvement.
The fact that we are able to get this balance right is due to our people and their willingness and ability to accept change and drive innovation throughout the business, one of the key strengths of the group.
I would like to pass on my sincere thanks to all who have played their part in making 2003 04 a year of continuous growth and achievement.
We believe that further improvements can be made however, and by building upon our core skills we can continue to provide a trusted, value for money and satisfying service to our customers and a good return for our investors.
Our operational review and corporate social responsibility sections detail our progress in these areas, but I would like to highlight a number of key achievements under the following headings: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Group profit before taxation and exceptional items is up 9.4% to 191.6m reflecting the effects of improved efficiency gains and increased turnover.
Yorkshire Water achieved three out of a possible four band A ratings in Ofwats January 2004 report on the financial efficiency of water and waste water companies a unique industry achievement.
Adjusted earnings per share excluding deferred tax increased 9% to 46.2p, with full year dividend increasing 3% to 26.83p per share.
Aquarion delivered a steady performance despite unfavourable weather conditions and an adverse exchange rate movement.
KEVIN WHITEMAN Chief Executive 5 KELDA GROUP P PL LC C A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 00 04 4 Chief Executives review continued BUSINESS PERFORMANCE OUR PEOPLE Over the last year Yorkshire Water maintained supplies to its customers During the year we concluded a two year pay deal with employees which in one of the hottest and driest years on record testament to our will provide further security for the business moving forward and a stable people, the investment in our water supply network and to the good platform on which to develop new skills.
working relationships we have developed with the Environment Agency.
We have developed more effective ways of working in consultation with Yorkshire Water service levels improved across the board with better our employees and trade unions and have seen the benefits over the last water quality and fewer incidents of low water pressure, leakage and year in terms of improved efficiency and job satisfaction.
Water quality now stands at an all-time high.
The use of new information technology is now standard for our field Aquarion, our US operation, performed satisfactorily, despite unusual technicians and has resulted in an improved customer experience supply and demand conditions.
Management changes will leverage and a better targeting of resources.
Yorkshire Water skills in asset management.
Management training has been stepped up over the year, with the Further progress was made at KeyLand and at Yorkshire Water Projects, implementation of bespoke Leadership Development training.
where our 1bn turnover, 25 year, water and waste water outsourcing contract with the MoD went live on schedule in December 2003 Our customer services operation Loop was listed in the Top 100 great and is performing well.
companies to work for in the UK by The Sunday Times newspaper.
Safe Move, Yorkshire Waters property search service, increased VALUE AND PRICING its turnover to 3m last year from a standing start in 1999.
Both Yorkshire Water and Aquarion have applied to their respective regulators for price reviews and are awaiting decisions later in 2004.
Loop continued to deliver industry leading performance to Yorkshire Waters customers and is one of the lowest cost providers in the sector.
Our goal throughout the price review process is to try and strike the right balance between our various stakeholder interests to protect the financial, These activities, building from our core skills base, present long term, environmental and operational sustainability of our businesses.
relatively low risk income streams for Kelda in line with our focus on waste and water services.
The overriding aim of Yorkshire Waters business plan is to build on the progress which has been made in Yorkshires water and waste water The sale of our interest in WRG completed the disposal process infrastructure and maintain levels of service, whilst at the same time making and strategic focus on water and waste water.
further efficiencies, sustaining the ability to invest in infrastructure and environmental improvement and keeping prices as low as possible.
SOCIETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT Kelda is the highest ranked water company in terms of environmental Its a balance, but one which I believe we have got right, despite the impact performance, achieving Premier League status in the Business in the of tax rises from 2005 and the significant additional investment which will be Environment Index of Corporate Environmental Engagement.
required to comply with European environmental legislation.
Kelda was also ranked by Business in the Community in the top 100 Aquarion faces similar drivers in its US water and waste water businesses, companies in the UK for corporate social responsibility and is also against an entirely different regulatory backdrop.
Our last rate increase a constituent in FTSE4Good, the independently researched corporate in Connecticut, the largest of our US service areas, was in 1996, since when responsibility index.
Aquarion has spent over $150m on infrastructure improvements.
The application is intended to finance further investment in infrastructure, water 25% of Kelda employees are now involved in some form of employee quality and the service we provide to customers.
volunteering and are actively involved with their communities to promote the value of what we do.
KEVIN WHITEMAN Chief Executive Kelda Group plc 6 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004
