During 2003 04 Kelda continued to use its core skills in water and waste water management to help grow its non regulated businesses.
The focus remains on developing long term, low risk, secure income streams with potential for increased activity in the future.
The turnover from these non regulated businesses, including our share of associates and joint ventures turnover, amounted to 30.7m, having increased from 16.9m in 2003.
The company intends to continue to bid for water and waste water contract operations in the UK.
YORKSHIRE WATER PROJECTS YWP is a 45% shareholder in Aberdeen Environmental Services which The company now operates water and waste water contracts for the Ministry manages four waste water treatment plants under a 25 year contract of Defence MoD in parts of Wales, the Midlands and the South West in Aberdeenshire.
Grampian Waste Water Services, a wholly owned of England, and for Scottish Water in the North of Scotland.
subsidiary of YWP, operates the contract for AES.
In December 2003, a 25 year contract commenced to provide water Grampian Waste Water Services was awarded ISO9001 2000 for quality and waste water services to more than 1,100 MoD sites in the Midlands, management and ISO14001 for environmental excellence.
The ISO standard Wales and the South West.
Turnover for the four months to end of March specifies that environmental management systems must integrate with other was 5.5m.
Yorkshire Water Projects is a 45% shareholder in the contract management systems to make sure that both environmental and economic consortium.
80% of the operating contract is being carried out by Delta objectives are met.
Water Services Delta, a wholly owned subsidiary of YWP.
Delta was formed in March 2003 and has 27 employees including newly recruited field All four of the Scottish plants are continuing to perform well, with all technicians and former MoD employees.
It is based at Keldas head office the local bathing waters served by the plants meeting the mandatory in Bradford, with satellite offices in Telford and Salisbury.
ISO9001 YWP WAS AWARDED ISO9001 2000 for quality management.
15 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004
