Chief Executives review Another Year of profitable Growth Maintaining a Sound Financial Prole Group turnover in 2004 was Laird has maintained a sound financial 468 million, 9% up on the 429 million structure and strong cash generation.
in 2003 and 17% up at constant Net borrowings at the year end were exchange rates.
This increase reects 118.6 million, representing 49% of both our organic growth resulting from shareholders funds, up from 60.1 stronger markets, new product million at the end of 2003.
Interest introductions and market share gains, cover for the year was 9.4 times together with the benets arising from before exceptional costs and goodwill acquisitions net of the disposal of amortisation, compared with 10.4 Laird Plastics.
Both interest costs and growth for the Group, at constant our reported level of borrowings exchange rates, was a healthy 11%.
benefited from the translation of US$ into Sterling.
Group profits for 2004 increased strongly compared with 2003, despite Cash generation remained healthy, the adverse translation effects of with a trading cash inow for the year exchange rate movements.
Both Laird of 24.3 million before the net effect of Technologies and Laird Security exceptionals, acquisitions, disposals Systems again delivered strong profits and dividend payments, compared growth as a result of the higher sales, with an inow of 38.2 million in 2003. improved operating margins and an The reduction was due largely to increasing proportion of higher capital expenditure on adding Leadership Through Strategic and manufacturing being sourced from new production capacity in both Laird Market Focus lower cost countries.
Laird Plastics Technologies and Laird Security We enhanced our market leadership profits up to the point of its disposal Systems and on completing Laird positions in 2004 by demonstrating were higher than in the corresponding Technologies new plant in the Czech further excellent progress in the period in 2003, and there was a further Republic, as well as increased working delivery of our strategy, which is set net benefit from acquisitions made capital requirements as a result of out in the Chairmans statement.
both the higher turnover and higher successful disposal of Laird Plastics in commodity prices.
There was a net October 2004, following the disposal profits for the Group before cash outow on acquisitions and of Fullarton Computer Industries in exceptional items, goodwill disposals of 77.3 million compared August 2002, has focused the Group amortisation and tax for 2004 were with 25.3 million in 2003. on its two market-leading divisions, 47.1 million, 26% up on the Laird Technologies and Laird Security 37.4 million in 2003 and up 37% at The maintenance of a strong financial Systems.
We have continued to constant exchange rates.
There were structure remains a key factor in our strengthen and develop these no operating exceptional costs strategy.
$140 million of new US businesses through investment and charged in the year 2003: 5.9 million.
Private Placement facilities were put in value-adding acquisitions, in particular profitability improved once again, with place during the second half of the the acquisition of Centurion Wireless the Groups operating margin year, of which $97 million expire in Technologies in 2004 which increasing to 11.3% compared with 2014 and $43 million in 2016.
These transformed Laird Technologies in 9.7% in 2003. new facilities add to the Groups terms of its product range, capabilities 155 million of bilateral facilities, which and scale.
Each division now has a Earnings per share in 2004 before expire in July 2008, and its existing US range of superior products together exceptional items and goodwill Private Placement loan notes totalling with strong market positions, amortisation were 25.9 pence, 20% $61 million, which expire at various particularly with the leading customers up on 2003 earnings of 21.6 pence.
These facilities give in their industries.
Each is also At constant exchange rates earnings Laird the financial resources and increasingly focused toward the higher growth would have been 30%.
exibility to make further value growth markets in their industries, and enhancing investments and they both maintain a competitive edge Focusing on Core Businesses acquisitions.
through innovation and technical Both Laird Technologies and Laird expertise, customer service and low Security Systems had another Enhancing our Portfolio Strength cost manufacturing.
excellent year, with each division Through Acquisitions delivering top-line organic growth as We were active during the year in The combination of the two divisions well as strong growth in operating repositioning our portfolio towards provides balance and strength to, as profits.
Laird Technologies operating higher growth segments, expanding well as an attractive growth prole for, profits before exceptional items grew our core businesses and extending the Group as a whole.
The success of by 67% to 21.0 million, compared our capabilities into new, related each of the businesses own with 12.6 million in 2003, while markets.
In October 2004 we strategies has been demonstrated by operating margins increased to 14.7%.
successfully completed the the strong growth in turnover and At constant exchange rates the divestment of Laird Plastics, our lower operating profits that both have growth in operating profits would have growth North American plastics delivered in recent years: the success been 84%.
At Laird Security Systems, distribution business, to a subsidiary of the Group strategy has been operating profits before exceptional of the Blackfriars Corporation for a evidenced by both the consistent items grew by 15% to 28.5 million, headline consideration of $65 million in strong growth in earnings and the while operating margins increased to cash, allowing us to focus on our two return to shareholders through share 12.2%.
At constant exchange rates the core higher growth, global, design-led price appreciation and dividends over growth in operating profits would have businesses, Laird Technologies and the same period.
06 2004 was a year of transformation for balances business, marking a further Operationally, we focus on achieving Laird Technologies, which signicantly step in the vertical integration of our continuous improvement in our broadened its product range and supply chain there.
manufacturing, supply chain and new capabilities beyond its historical focus product introduction and development on electromagnetic interference In September, we announced the processes.
We remain close to our shielding where it remains the global acquisition of Home Doors GB and customers in terms of both product market leader.
In April we acquired Houseproud which, when combined design and support, delivering high Thermagon, for a headline cash with Laird Security Systems existing levels of customer service and consideration of $27.5 million plus businesses, created the UK market satisfaction.
We continue to develop future conditional payments of up to leader in the supply of doors, windows the breadth and capabilities of our $16.5 million.
This gave us critical and affordable conservatories to the products, enhancing our technical mass in the high-growth market for growing DIY retail market.
The expertise and design skills and thermal interface materials and acquisition was in line with our pursuing patent protection wherever allowed us to integrate Thermagons strategy of developing this retail justied.
business with those of Orcus and channel for integrated security and Warth, which were both acquired in building products.
A sound financial structure is also late 2003. central to our strategy.
The Group and Maintaining profitable Growth its businesses exhibit an attractive In October we completed the Both of Lairds divisions hold leading cash generation prole, while the acquisition of Centurion Wireless market positions in their industries.
combination of our two businesses Technologies, for a headline cash They are global, innovative and yields financial benets to the Group consideration of $115 million together design-led, customer focused as a whole.
We have the financial with the issue of approximately 14 businesses with a high level of strength to make further, value million new Laird shares.
Centurion is technical expertise, underpinned by enhancing investments and the global market leader in the design efficient and low cost manufacturing.
acquisitions to ensure that we and supply of cellular handset Both are high margin businesses with maintain strong positions in our antennae and has an increasing attractive cash-ow proles, each markets.
presence in the emerging markets of now operating in a number of higher telematics and Wi-Fi.
Its acquisition growth, specialist markets which Leadership for the Future transforms Laird Technologies in generally have high barriers to entry.
We have refocused the Group onto terms of its product range, capabilities our two high-quality, core businesses, and scale, and makes it uniquely We have made significant advances in both of which have attractive growth placed to exploit the growing recent years in positioning our proles, operating across a range of convergence between EMI shielding, business portfolio towards these specialist market sectors where they antennae and thermal management specialist, higher growth markets and generally hold leading positions.
The integration of Centurion this process continues.
Our However, we again expect to is proceeding as planned, and we are acquisitions and divestments, and our experience in 2005 further adverse on track to achieve or exceed our entry into new growth market translation effects from exchange rate planned cost synergies.
segments, reect this and we are movements, as well as the effects of leaders in many of these new areas, higher commodity prices and higher In January 2005 we also acquired the and aim to take a leading position in interest rates.
Despite this, we remain Taiwanese company Cateron the remainder.
We will continue to well positioned for the future, given the Corporation, the leading supplier of develop both of our two divisions strategy we have in place, the strength EMI shielding products to the global through investment and acquisitions, of our businesses and the actions we PC notebook market, for a cash benefiting from the strength and continue to take.
We look forward to consideration of approximately balance that both bring to the Group.
This reinforced further Laird Technologies position in the EMI Our global reach is a critical success Peter Hill shielding market, and provides factor, so we continued to expand our Chief Executive opportunities to increase our antennae Asian presence and capabilities in and thermal interface materials sales 2004.
Excluding those employees to the PC notebook market.
acquired with Centurion, the number of our employees in Asia more than There were also acquisitions, costing doubled in 2004, on top of a 60% some 11 million, to strengthen the increase in 2003.
Including Centurion, core businesses of Laird Security by the end of the year we had almost Systems, whilst simultaneously 4,000 employees in Asia.
The region expanding into new and higher growth represents an exciting and growing market sectors.
In July we acquired market and our presence there keeps Lindman Limited, a supplier of high us close to our local customers, while specication composite doors to the also providing us with a lower cost social and private housing markets, supply base.
The bringing on stream extending our position in this fast of our new plant in the Czech Republic growing UK market segment and took us into Central Europe, further building on the acquisition of Intron in extending our low cost manufacturing 2003.
Laird Security Systems brings a base.
At the end of 2004, nearly 50% differentiated and fully integrated of the Groups employees were in Asia solution to this market.
In August we or Central Europe, compared with acquired Advanced Metals 17% at the end of 2003.
Technologies Inc. a key supplier to Laird Security Systems US window 07 Leading through development We enhanced our market leadership positions in 2004, demonstrating further excellent progress in the delivery of our strategy.
The successful disposal of Laird Plastics in 2004, following the disposal of Fullarton Computer Industries in 2002, has focused the Group on its two market-leading divisions, Laird Technologies and Laird Security Systems.
We have continued to strengthen and develop both of these divisions through investment and value-adding acquisitions.
A year in Laird 26 April 2004 28 April 2004 Laird acquires Thermagon, Laird inaugurates Inc. to extend presence in its agship design, growing eld of thermal engineering and management manufacturing facility 7 July 2004 in the Czech Republic Laird Security Systems continues expansion in high growth composite door market 08 Antennae gain patterns to predict the coverage area of a wireless communications system are plotted using one of Centurions seven anechoic chamber antennae measurement facilities, located in design centres around the world.
Centurion uses the latest electromagnetic simulation techniques in its design centres to reduce antennae development time, design higher performing antennae and solve complex integration problems.
23 August 2004 Laird announces sale of Laird Plastics Laird announces 10 September 2004 acquisition of Centurion Laird Security Systems Wireless Technologies expands in growing UK DIY retail market 10 January 2005 Laird announces acquisition of Cateron Corporation 09 Laird Technologies Leading through technical expertise Laird Technologies is a leading wireless handset antennae.
We have international supplier to the global also established a growing electronics industries including presence in the design and supply telecommunications, data transfer of thermal management products and information technology, as well and solutions for electronic devices as to the automotive, aerospace and and have an increasing presence in defence, consumer electronics, the emerging markets of telematics medical and industrial markets.
Our products, often coGlobal market leadership has been designed in conjunction with our established in the design and supply customers, are critical in protecting of both electromagnetic interference or enhancing the performance of EMI shielding solutions and electronic devices.
Turnover m 150 100 50 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 Operating profit m 30 20 10 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 Laird Technologies provides absorbers and shielding for high-frequency EMI and antennae pattern enhancement on military platforms and on-board electronics.
10 11 The new design, engineering and manufacturing facility in the Czech Republic has the capacity to produce the full range of Laird Technologies products.
12 12 Benets of Wider Product Range and The integration of Centurion is new customer wins in 2004 including Improved Markets proceeding as planned, and the Panasonic, Sony, Fujitsu, Laird Technologies markets had projected cost synergies, announced LG Electronics and Samsung.
strengthened by the beginning of the at the time of the acquisition, of year, and 2004 saw improved demand $5 million in 2006, are on track to be In January 2005 we acquired Cateron, across all market sectors, particularly achieved or exceeded.
The closure of based in Taiwan and with a in cellular handsets, antennae manufacturing in Sweden manufacturing facility in Kunshan in telecommunications and information has been announced, and its transfer China.
Cateron is the leading supplier technology.
Laird Technologies also to other Laird Technologies facilities of EMI shielding fabric over foam benefited from its entry through will be completed by early 2006. gaskets and tape to the global PC acquisition into the antennae and Construction of a new and much notebook market.
thermal interface materials markets, expanded design and manufacturing while sales into the industrial, defence plant will begin during 2005, in the Leadership Through Technical and consumer markets all increased Nokia campus on the outskirts of Expertise compared with 2003.
Laird Technologies is now During 2004 we made significant 2004 was 142.8 million, up from uniquely placed to benefit from the progress as innovators, by 95.8 million in 2003.
Organic turnover increasing convergence of EMI strengthening and expanding our growth at constant exchange rates shielding, antennae and thermal technology capabilities and position.
We believe that Laird Technologies now possesses the industrys largest Operating profits before exceptional Continuing Expansion in EMI Shielding radio frequency and thermal design items were 21.0 million for the year, Laird Technologies EMI shielding and development team, employing 67% up on the 12.6 million in 2003 business continued to grow and some 270 engineers and technologists and up 84% at constant exchange prosper in 2004, as a result of stronger worldwide with an extensive range of rates.
Operating margins continued to markets, new product introductions product and process development improve, to 14.7%, as a result of a and with an increasing proportion of skills.
We have a strong intellectual further expansion of our low cost production being manufactured in property portfolio supporting the manufacturing and additional China and the Czech Republic.
Our whole of Laird Technologies product operational efficiencies, despite some new plant in the Czech Republic was range, with 215 patents issued and price declines in certain product ofcially opened in April, and by the some 200 pending.
We are leaders in sectors.
year end was producing a wide range metal stamping and nishing, in high of EMI shielding products, including speed assembly, inspection and Achieving Strategic Development board level shields, beryllium copper, packaging automation, in web Through Acquisition fabric over foam, conductive handling and metallisation technology In 2004 Laird Technologies took two elastomers, form in place, and knitted and also in high speed, automated major strategic steps to expand its metal products.
product range and capabilities beyond EMI shielding where it is already the Laird Technologies is increasingly Examples of new product global market leader.
In April Laird focused on Asia, both as a low cost developments in 2004 include new Technologies achieved critical mass in supply base and as a market in its combination EMI shielding products the growing area of thermal interface own right.
By the end of 2004 Laird utilising state-of-the-art elastomer and materials with the acquisition of Technologies employed some 3,600 silicone rubber moulding technology Thermagon.
The thermal businesses people in Asia, nearly 70% of the total combined with deep drawn metal of Orcus and Warth, acquired in 2003, workforce.
In China, we expanded the forming, with fully automated in line have been integrated with that of manufacturing capacity at our plants inspection and packaging.
Our Thermagon, and Orcus Kansas City in Shanghai and Tianjin during the thermal business was successful in facility was closed in the second half year, leased a third building at our 2004 in designing and developing new, of the year.
Shenzhen facility and moved into a high performance thermal pads and larger facility in Suzhou.
In antennae, we expanded In October Laird Technologies begin construction of a new plant at a our integrated antennae module completed the acquisition of greeneld site in Shenzhen, which will products combining speakers and Centurion Wireless Technologies, the allow all of our existing operations in cameras, developed the next global market leader in the design and the three buildings there to be generation of internal antennae for supply of antennae for wireless consolidated in 2006, as well as cellular handsets as well as a broad handsets and land mobile radios, and providing additional design and tooling array of solutions for current and which has a growing presence in the capabilities and production capacity.
future wireless protocols, and released emerging markets of telematics and In 2004 we increased rapidly our the first generation controllable Wi-Fi.
Centurions own turnover moulding and stamping capacity to antennae to the handset market.
increased organically by 24% in 2004 support design wins for Nokia and compared with 2003, as it supplied Motorola, to be manufactured in Building on our Global Leadership almost 140 million cellular antennae to China.
Our sales force in China Position the worlds major handset continues to grow, as does our design, Laird Technologies had a very manufacturers, a growth of 18% development and marketing successful year in 2004, benefiting compared with 2003.
Centurion has capabilities and we were successful in from improved markets as well as the grown market share in 2004 with the winning new programmes with local strategic development into new but major global handset manufacturers, Chinese electronics manufacturers.
Its strong global and is also making steady progress in customer relationships, the breadth of penetrating the local China antennae Laird Technologies expanded its its product offering and its highly market.
The acquisition of Centurion operations in Korea and Japan during developed technical expertise, all further strengthens our presence in the year, following the acquisition of underpinned by its extensive and still Asia.
As well as manufacturing Magnes in Korea, and the acquisition expanding low cost manufacturing facilities in the USA and Sweden, of a manufacturing presence in Japan capabilities, provide a sound platform Centurion brings design and following the purchase of Warth, both for our leadership position and for our manufacturing centres in Beijing and in late 2003.
We have been particularly future profitable growth.
Shanghai in China and also in successful in providing shielding Malaysia, as well as sales ofces in products into the new plasma and Korea and Taiwan.
liquid crystal display markets, with 13 14 Laird Security Systems Leading through innovation Laird Security Systems is a leader in Laird Security Systems holds leading the design, development, manufacture positions in many of its market and distribution of innovative solutions sectors in the UK and the USA, and to improve performance and enhance sources an increasing proportion of its protection and security for the hardware products from China, both residential building and home from its own manufacturing facilities improvement markets.
It provides a and from its partner suppliers.
In wide range of products and solutions recent years Laird Security Systems including window and door hardware, has both broadened its product range composite doors, conservatories and and repositioned its businesses specialist windows, uPVC proles and towards the higher growth segments products and weather-stripping seals.
Turnover m 250 200 150 100 50 Laird Lifestyle 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 Products manufactures an extensive range of low maintenance uPVC windows, composite Operating profit and GRP entrance doors and m conservatories which 30 are sold through leading DIY retailers throughout the UK.
20 10 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 15 Growth Through Product of locks, hinges and door furniture.
The conservatory market has two very Development and Improved This growth was achieved in both the distinct sectors: the high end, Customer Benets UK and North America as a result of expensive market and the more Laird Security Systems had another close liaison between our US and affordable, predominantly uPVC very successful year with strong European design centres and Chinese sector, where the product is viewed as growth in turnover and profits.
These multia low cost home extension.
Whilst was achieved despite the adverse national, multi-functional teams are both sectors, but particularly the high translation effects of exchange rate considered to be a key component to end, have suffered in recent months movements on our US operations, and developing new high growth markets.
due to rising interest rates and a against a backdrop of significant price reduction in consumer confidence, the increases in key raw materials, such The level of manufacturing from low market fundamentals of the affordable as uPVC, steel and zinc, as well as a cost economies, both through wholly sector, where Laird Lifestyle is rising interest rate environment in both owned manufacturing units and positioned, remain good as these the UK and the USA.
supplier alliances, grew signicantly in conservatories have low market 2004.
We commissioned a third penetration and are a highly Laird Security Systems benefited from manufacturing facility in China in late aspirational product for homeowners.
the breadth of its product range, its 2004, and overall our sourcing from The rationalisation of the business is positioning towards higher growth Asia grew by over 40% compared with now complete with the closure of two segments of its overall markets, and 2003.
In 2005 we expect to see further manufacturing facilities and a its maintenance of strong customer growth in the volumes of product reduction in overheads.
Turnover in 2004 was manufactured in Asia, both as a result is now well placed for the normal 233.3 million, up 14% compared with of continuing growth in our hardware seasonal upturn in the market in the 205.3 million in 2003 and up 18% at products in the US and with the further Spring of 2005. constant exchange rates.
Organic transfer of production from one of our turnover growth at constant exchange UK facilities, where a significant Leadership Through Innovation rates was a healthy 8%.
down-sizing has recently been Laird Security Systems has announced.
established a reputation in its markets In North America the market for all of for innovation in product design and our products remained strong in both Continued Development Through performance and for its industrythe new build and replacement Investment and Acquisition leading levels of customer service, markets with the latter now The geographic expansion of our making it the supplier of choice for its representing the largest segment of North American operations, with the customers.
The integration of our the North American window market.
opening of a new branch in the European and North American design Underlying demographic trends, as Western US, has been particularly teams with our applications well as a movement towards those successful and this region has seen engineering and manufacturing product areas where we are strongest, significant sales growth in 2004. capabilities in China is now bringing are all expected to remain favourable.
During the year we also completed an considerable benets, with further expansion of our US seals facility, to new, innovative product designs being In the UK the window market suffered allow us to add new capacity to serve launched in our markets.
Commercial in the year due to a slow-down in the this growth market and where we trials of our prototype electronic retail replacement market, benefit from strong intellectual access controls for doors and compounded by a backdrop of rising property protection.
In the second half windows continued during the year, interest rates and a reduction in of the year we acquired Advanced and we continue to exploit the patent consumer confidence, and this trend Metal Technologies, a supplier critical protection which we enjoy in a is expected to continue through 2005. to our US window balances business, number of our main product areas.
However, this was mitigated by a allowing the business to benefit from strong social housing market where vertical integration of its supply chain.
Focusing on Market Leadership in we now enjoy a position as a leading Higher Growth Sectors supplier of composite doors.
In In the UK we continued to increase As a result of the actions we have addition, the market for our door our exposure to the social housing taken in recent years, Laird Security hardware products remained buoyant.
market, which, due to a number of Systems now has a far broader Government initiatives together with presence in a range of markets, Operating profits before exceptional favourable demographic trends, products and sales channels items for the year were 28.5 million, continues to exhibit high growth.
The compared with its traditional focus on up 15% compared with the acquisitions of Intron in late 2003, and the UK window hardware market.
The 24.8 million in 2003, and up 24% at Lindman in July 2004, have made us majority of our businesses are now in constant exchange rates, a the leading supplier to this market, higher growth sectors within our continuation of the sound financial while the increasing provision of overall markets and ones in which we performance of recent years.
integrated solutions of doors, door hold leading market positions.
We hardware and robust but easy-to-use expect to continue this repositioning, Global Markets, Local Products access controls is seen as an reducing further our exposure to the 2004 was a challenging year in terms important strategy for our future static or declining UK window market of both commodity prices and success.
while continuing to expand in the availability.
However, with the global higher growth sectors.
This reach of our business we were able to In September we acquired the broadening of our business together ensure continuity of supply to our business and assets of Home Doors with our successful business model is customers while our ability to ensure GB and Houseproud, now renamed expected to support the continuing competitive pricing of our products as Laird Lifestyle Products.
This profitable growth of Laird Security well as the benets in 2004 of acquisition brought a range of door, Systems.
favourable supply contracts meant window and conservatory products that overall, we saw no adverse effect aimed predominantly at the DIY retail on profitability in the year.
and builders merchant markets, two channels that are increasingly The benets of integrating our global important routes to market, as capabilities with a strong local market consumers seek a interface were also demonstrated by well-respected alternative to the the growth in our door hardware range traditional direct sell market.
16 Laird Security The Laird Group PLC Systems is an integrated design, manufacturing, distribution and sales organisation, and is the UK market leader in the provision of high quality security and hardware products for doors and windows.
