Chief executives review LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 4 Chief executives review The Cassini-Huygens success illustrates exactly what LogicaCMG is all about Chief executives review 5 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 Introduction Geographically, the United Kingdom had This landmark deal was one of mainland On 1 July 2004, the Cassini-Huygens spacecraft another successful year, delivering revenue Europes largest outsourcing contracts last year.
arrived at Saturn after a seven-year, 1.2 billion growth with one of the better operating margins It strengthens our position as a leading player in km journey from Earth.
Six months later, the in the sector.
The primary driver was the public Europe not only in large-scale outsourcing but Huygens probe, guided by LogicaCMG sector, in particular work related to the National also in energy and utilities, one of our key software, landed on Titan, the planets largest Health Services IT programme.
Our other key market sectors.
It builds our presence in the moon.
During its descent, this software enabled territory, Benelux, delivered strong revenue Iberian market and provides us with additional mission pictures to be beamed back to Earth.
growth and we continue to push for larger nearshore resource with a major data centre contracts there, particularly in outsourcing.
and skills including SAP consultants, which can The Cassini-Huygens success illustrates be deployed on cross-border projects.
exactly what LogicaCMG is all about We made good progress with cost reduction in mission-critical performance, intellectual rigour Germany, achieving the tight timetable for our We welcome Edinfors 1,300 staff to our team and innovation, technical excellence, faultless restructuring programme, refocusing the and look forward to the significant contribution execution, dependability, reliability and longbusiness and thereby establishing a sound basis we know they will make to LogicaCMG.
for better performance this year.
Conditions in France continued to be challenging and we are Further progress in outsourcing It is these qualities which enabled LogicaCMG working on the cost base and business mix to Demand for IT and business process to win increasingly large-scale, complex create a more differentiated business capable of outsourcing is growing as customers look to engagements during 2004 as customers delivering sustainable profits.
reduce costs, control risk and improve process looked to build their business through the efficiency while retaining maximum flexibility.
innovative delivery of technology and business In wireless networks, the industry generally LogicaCMGs delivery capability plays well to process solutions.
underestimated the time required to build these requirements through its use of the supply customers and volumes related to new chain to service our global customers from A return to growth technologies and applications.
After a difficult multiple locations what we describe as We closed 2004 with a strong book-to-bill ratio first half, our wireless networks business blended sourcing.
and entered 2005 with a good order intake increased its revenues in line with normal pipeline.
We have further strengthened the order seasonality during the second half and, coupled This model leverages the full strengths of our book in the first quarter.
with the benefits of cost cutting, broke even for global delivery capability, with an optimal the full year.
We began 2005 with a significantly combination of onsite, onshore, near and In IT services overall, nearly all our territories and lower cost base, an improved mix of business offshore resources.
Key blended sourcing deals sectors returned to revenue growth in the and a solid revenue stream from long-term in 2004 included contracts in the financial second half of 2004.
It was encouraging to see service contracts.
services sector with risk management specialists an improvement in areas such as financial Aon and banking group ING.
services and energy and utilities which were Playing to our strengths badly impacted by the downturn of recent years.
One of LogicaCMGs key strengths lies in our This demand for outsourcing has enabled us to differentiation as a company.
We have a team of expand our nearshore operations in Wales, the The best growth opportunities continued to be 21,000 talented, professional, independentCzech Republic and now Portugal.
With its wealth in outsourcing.
LogicaCMG was well positioned minded people located across 34 countries.
We of well-qualified delivery staff, India is being used to benefit from this growth with the proportion of have a reputation for deep industry and more broadly across the group to help deliver group revenues derived from long-term technical knowledge and a track record for blended sourcing.
In 2004 we opened our new outsourcing contracts rising from 20 per cent to delivering innovative solutions that provide real offshore campus facility at Bangalore, where 23 per cent during 2004.
Our public sector business benefit to our clients.
headcount has doubled to almost 1,200 over the business also did well and we achieved year.
This figure will rise significantly over the 17 per cent growth in this area.
After detailed contract negotiations in 2004, we course of 2005, making it likely that India will be announced early in 2005 a 510 million deal our third largest operation by staff numbers after with Energias fide Portugal EDP, whereby we the UK and the Netherlands.
will acquire a controlling interest in its IT business, Edinfor - Sistemas Informticos, S. A.
Our objective is to increase outsourcing to Edinfor.
This deal demonstrates the strength represent at least 30 per cent of our turnover.
of our positioning as a company.
EDP entrusted This objective will be achieved partly due to our its IT business to LogicaCMG because we blended delivery capability but also through the understand their business and we have a track value-based approach we take to outsourcing.
record of delivering technically demanding We not only reduce and manage our clients projects on time and to budget.
operational costs, but we also use our deep industry knowledge and technical innovation to accelerate and transform their business.
This will include 1,300 Edinfor employees.
At the time of going to press, completion of the Edinfor transaction with EDP is subject to clearance from the European Commission competition authorities.
Chief executives review LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 6 Chief executives review It is our peoples expertise as consultants, industry experts, technologists and project managers that ensures success for our customers and our shareholders Chief executives review 7 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 Combining product knowledge and The importance of people We expect to make significant progress in 2005, systems integration Last year we said goodbye to Ian Taylor, Hugo with improved contributions across the business Having returned wireless networks to profit for Schaap and Wout Koppers who retired from the derived from strong organic revenue growth the full year in 2004, our goal now is to build on executive committee.
Bernd Lantermann also supported by a better mix of business.
During 2005, we expect to retires this year, having reached the age of 60. see more opportunities for content We thank them all for their outstanding We were proud to play a part in the success of management.
This is an area of growing contribution to the company over the years and the Cassini-Huygens mission in 2004.
Historically content wish them well in their retirement.
we look forward to working with our clients on has tended to be silo-based with different engagements that are equally complex and solutions for wireless, wireline and television.
Since the merger of Logica and CMG we have demanding.
With our track record of delivery and These silos are now breaking down as invested in a leadership development reliability, coupled with an in-depth knowledge of convergence towards IP-based delivery programme which has enabled us to nurture industry sectors, LogicaCMG is the ideal solutions gathers momentum.
This opens up new talent from across the organisation.
Three business partner both now and in the future.
many opportunities for LogicaCMG, capitalising participants in this programme joined the not only on our product capabilities but also executive committee in 2005: Guy Warren as drawing on our systems integration expertise.
chief executive, UK: Reinoud Drenth as chief executive France, Belgium, central and eastern Our progress with wireless enterprise solutions Europe and Scandinavia: and Nick Caplan as also demonstrates the synergy of the product managing director, global financial services.
We have When Bernd Lantermann retires at the end of seen significant growth in demand for mobile June this year, Nick will take over the role of Martin Read ticketing for rail travel, entertainment and events, international lines of business director.
Group chief executive which enables us to leverage our relationship with many of the worlds leading banks by At the end of 2004, we also announced the linking through to mPayments.
appointment of Jim McKenna as chief operating officer, moving from his role of chief executive, Traction from new technology UK and Ireland.
In 2004, we saw traction from other new technology applications such as compliance The quality of our people is a key differentiator where LogicaCMG can leverage its industryfor LogicaCMG.
During 2004, as well as leading technical capabilities.
For example, in leadership development, we invested in the area of emissions trading we had initial improved knowledge management systems success in New South Wales, Australia with a across the organisation and implemented a new greenhouse gas registry system.
We were then performance and career management system selected to provide the national registry in the for all staff.
It is our peoples expertise as Czech Republic.
consultants, industry experts, technologists and project managers that ensures success for our We are building our relationship with Airbus by customers and our shareholders.
We will developing applications for Radio Frequency continue to invest in them to ensure we are Identification RFID technology.
Through RFID, strongly positioned for future growth.
Airbus will be able to identify and track spare parts for aircraft electronically through the supply A positive outlook for 2005 chain.
Similarly innovative applications are being Overall, we start 2005 with a good platform developed in the world of security.
Here from which to take our business forward: LogicaCMGs biometrics capabilities are gaining we have reduced the cost base in traction with picture recognition solutions at wireless networks football stadia and shopping malls in the we have met our tight timetable for the Netherlands and as an integral part of several restructuring of our German business proposals in the eBorders market.
good order intake is continuing across the group, and the Edinfor transaction further strengthens our position as we develop our outsourcing business in mainland Europe.
