06 LUMINAR PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT INDUSTRY OVERVIEW Given this material adverse change in In order to allow the Company to focus on As part of a policy to regenerate town the market conditions from previously implementing this strategy and to apply centres many local councils during the highly favourable conditions, the the appropriate management approach last decade granted planning consents Company conducted a strategic review, to the branded and the unbranded for leisure use and reduced the number the results of which were announced estate it is necessary to ring-fence of objections made to the magistrates last November.
non-core unbranded businesses from courts for the granting of licensing the rest of the estate.
This contributed STRATEGY which are not ultimately capable to a proliferation of licensed premises The Board has concluded that the best of branding will be sold over time.
opening in high streets across the UK.
strategy to grow shareholder value Demand grew with the increase in is to pursue a policy of developing APPLICATION OF STRATEGY capacity as many high streets grew a portfolio of branded units which will TO CORE ESTATE into thriving leisure centres.
By the occupy the leading trading position Since January we have focused on second half of 2002 demand began within their local markets.
This strategy four branded templates alongside the to decrease.
With continued expansion will meet the needs of modern leisure two existing branded templates of in capacity the market for high street consumers with consistent products Chicago Rock Caf and Jumpin Jaks leisure became increasingly competitive which will support strong customer for the Entertainment Division.
with many operators entering into relationships and widen the user base.
aggressive price competition in order to Specifically, this will be accomplished Each branded template will be positioned maintain volumes.
This was compounded by providing an entertainment-led within towns where the demographic by operators who had developed weak experience in a safe and friendly but profile ensures that a suitable market product which was inappropriate for exciting environment, with an emphasis exists for the brands customer profile.
the late night market using discounting on value for money.
It is the Companys The unit will be designed with the as a reaction to increased competition.
strongly held belief that this approach appropriate capacity to enable it will reduce the need for ongoing to achieve a leading position within Within each local market the operation refurbishment capital costs and will its local marketplace.
Each brand with the leading and best differentiated reduce trading volatility, which will provides a high quality  has fared best.
Marginalised deliver consistent above average led leisure experience within a well undifferentiated operations relying solely returns over the long term.
located modern property with a safe on discounting have underperformed.
The brands OUR STRATEGY IS TO GROW SHAREHOLDER VALUE BY PURSUING A POLICY OF DEVELOPING A PORTFOLIO OF BRANDED UNITS WHICH WILL OCCUPY THE LEADING TRADING POSITION WITHIN THEIR LOCAL MARKETS Annual Report and Accounts 2004 LUMINAR PLC 07 will have the flexibility to be able to A further 43 units within the Companys PROGRESS cater for a wider market to increase estate benefit from strong positions The first conversion of an unbranded utilisation of the premises.
Recruiting within key markets but the properties nightclub to a branded template took and training the correct standard of will not currently accommodate any place in April last year when the former management is considered key to the of our branded concepts.
These units Options nightclub in Kingston upon development of consistently branded will be retained for their long-term Thames re-opened as an Oceana.
The Company will ensure licensing value.
It is expected that sites for the first Lava Ignite and Life that adequate resources are allocated it will be possible to develop branded opened in November last year in Burnley to this important area.
product within relevant towns over and Wellingborough respectively.
time through acquiring space adjacent Chicago Rock Caf is the Companys to the existing properties or acquiring Three units have had a complementary longest established and most successful alternative properties.
70s room developed adjacent to the brand.
However, its performance over existing Chicago Rock Caf and a further the last financial year has reflected the The Emerging Business Division Chicago Rock Caf has benefited from highly competitive trading conditions.
comprises 23 bars developed on an an extensive refit including a sports A detailed review including market experimental basis in recent years.
A further 15 Chicago Rock research has confirmed that the brand Given current market circumstances Cafs benefited from more limited has a unique position within the high the Company is reviewing the options refurbishments.
A further 22 other street and still has a strong appeal to for this business.
units have benefited from the the over-25 customer.
demonstrates that Chicago Rock Caf APPLICATION OF STRATEGY is a strong brand appreciated by its TO NON-CORE ESTATE Total capital expenditure on this customer base but would benefit from A total of 61 units which do not fit our programme was 33.1m.
Cash returns further capital investment.
It is also branding criteria have been transferred on these investments during the year clear that some units developed in to a wholly-owned separate ring-fenced amounted to 31%, including the highly recent years and some management subsidiary.
A new management team successful Oceana, Kingston.
Excluding techniques used have led the brand has been created to manage these that development, the sales uplift was away from its core brand standards.
businesses on an entrepreneurial 44% and the cash returns were 17%, basis which is more relevant to including initial developments of the The Company has developed a clear unbranded businesses.
The new team new branded concepts.
programme to re-invigorate the Chicago is headed by Tim Roberts who has Rock Caf brand based on its core values.
over 20 years experience of running In the current financial year the The programme includes three areas: unbranded nightclubs.
Company expects to rebrand a further development of 70s style rooms adjacent 11 unbranded units.
Three 70s rooms to existing units, major refits which The objective for the non-core will be added to existing Chicago Rock will include sports bar areas and other venues is to realise maximum value Cafs, two Chicago Rock Cafs will be initiatives to develop incremental income for shareholders over the short to extensively refurbished and a further and a higher level of small maintenance medium term.
15 will benefit from freshen up refurbishments to refresh the estate.
Capital expenditure Currently in Identified for Brand Location operation conversion Total Oceana Cities 2 11 13 Lava Ignite Large towns 1 25 26 Liquid Medium towns 20 4 24 Life Small towns 1 13 14 Chicago Rock Caf Small medium towns 58 58 Jumpin Jaks Small medium towns 22 22 Total 104 53 157 08 LUMINAR PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED for these projects is expected to be positioned to benefit from a recovery Under the Act, responsibility for in the region of 30m.
licensing will transfer from the judiciary to local councils.
The Government has Last year the Company disposed of DISCOUNTING announced that the first appointed 18 units for total proceeds of 9m.
Over the last year there has been much date for the start of the transition Of these units nine were unbranded debate in the media about an increase period in which the transfer from the trading units which were sub-let.
in the discounting of alcoholic drinks by magistrates to the local authorities The remaining nine units were closed high street leisure operators.
Luminar will take place is November 2004. prior to sale as they were trading has always used promotional offers on at uneconomic levels.
The Company both admissions and drinks as part of The Governments present timetable will continue to close and dispose of the marketing strategy to grow and provides for a period of nine months to uneconomic units and to sell unbranded protect volumes.
The Companys complete the transition period.
Luminar units where appropriate prices can promotional schemes are agreed with welcomes the introduction of the new be obtained.
Increasing opportunities the relevant local licensing authorities system which is intended to reduce are arising to utilise spare capacity for before implementation.
We believe that it is town centre residential development.
promotions as a percentage of sales unlikely that the authorities will permit has not increased and our overall gross 24-hour drinking.
There may be some The Company is at an early stage in margin has been maintained at over relaxation of the closing time for both the programme to convert its estate 80% for the last three years.
This is in pubs and nightclubs which would to predominantly branded units.
spite of a 19% increase in duty for prebenefit both sets of operators.
More A good start has been made and the packaged spirits which was introduced importantly, the grant of new licences opportunity remains to accelerate by the Government two years ago.
will become more difficult and it is likely our plan should market conditions that poor quality operators will have and performance allow.
We have consistently supported the their licences withdrawn.
Both of these introduction of local council backed measures will help to reduce the overFINANCIAL STRENGTH minimum pricing levels and would capacity currently in the marketplace.
Throughout the recent period of welcome a broadening of these schemes.
uncertainty the Company has Luminar is a responsible operator on GAMING focused on generating surplus cash.
the high street and supports the recent Planned changes in the regulation Last year the Company generated Government initiatives on anti-social of gaming in the UK will create a free cash flow before dividends drinking including the Alcohol Harm opportunities for the Company.
This result, which has Reduction Strategy.
it is likely that existing units will be been achieved through a significant able to increase the use of gaming reduction in expansion capital DEREGULATION machines.
Secondly, the development expenditure, underlines the impressive The new Licensing Act, which became of medium-sized casinos in provincial cash generating characteristics of law in July 2003, brought to an end towns with a significant entertainment the business.
The Companys overall a considerable period of uncertainty component will enable the Company financial position has been significantly regarding the future shape of alcohol to use its present skills and assets strengthened and it is now well licensing in England and Wales.
1,2, 4 3,4 WHERE TO FIND OUR BRANDS: ABERDEEN, ASHFORD, 1 1 1 1,2 1,4 AYLESBURY, BANBURY, BARNSLEY, BASILDON, BASINGSTOKE, 1 1 1 2 BEDFORD, BIRMINGHAM, BISHOPS STORTFORD, BLACKBURN, 3 2 1 1 BOLTON, BOURNEMOUTH, BRAINTREE, BRISTOL, BURTON ON 1 1 1 2,4 2 TRENT, BURY, CANTERBURY, CARDIFF, CARLISLE, 1 1 1 1,2 CHELMSFORD, CHICHESTER, COLCHESTER, COVENTRY, 2 2 2 1 2 DUMFRIES, DUNSTABLE, EAST GRINSTEAD, EPSOM, GLASGOW, 2,4 1 1,2 2 GLOUCESTER, GRIMSBY, HUDDERSFIELD, HALIFAX, HEMEL 2 1,2, 4 2 2 4 HEMPSTEAD, HANLEY, HARLOW, ILFORD, IPSWICH, ISLE OF 1 1 1 5 WIGHT, JERSEY, KINGS LYNN, KINGSTON UPON THAMES, Annual Report and Accounts 2004 LUMINAR PLC 09 The Company has entered into an agreement with Accor Casinos S. A, the operator of 23 casinos in Europe, to establish a joint venture to operate a new concept of entertainment based casinos.
The initial pilot template will be in Leeds, subject to approvals.
The joint venture is intended to form the basis of further developments from within our estate.
SUMMARY Luminar has a well considered strategy which we have started to implement on a phased basis.
I am given considerable confidence from our performance against our competitors, our financial strength and the skills of our people.
Luminar has much opportunity including new developments in the gaming sector to leverage the quality assets within our business.
STEPHEN C THOMAS CHIEF EXECUTIVE 20 MAY 2004 1,4 2, 1 1 1,4 LANCASTER, LEEDS, LINCOLN, LIVINGSTON, LUTON, 1 1 1,2 2 MACCLESFIELD, MAIDENHEAD, MAIDSTONE, MANCHESTER, 1,4 1,2 5 4 MANSFIELD, MIDDLESBROUGH, MILTON KEYNES, NEWBURY, 1 1,4 2 1 NORTHAMPTON, NORWICH, NOTTINGHAM, NUNEATON, 1,4 1,4 1 1 OLDHAM, PETERBOROUGH, REDDITCH, SALISBURY, 4 2 1 1 SHREWSBURY, SOUTHAMPTON, SOUTHSEA, ST HELENS, 1 1,2 1 STAFFORD, STEVENAGE, STRATFORD UPON AVON, 4 1 1,2 1 1 SUNDERLAND, SUTTON, SWANSEA, TAMWORTH, TROWBRIDGE, 1 1 1 1,2, 4 1,4 WALSALL, WARRINGTON, WATFORD, WIGAN, WINDSOR, 1 1 1,4 1 WOLVERHAMPTON, WORCESTER, WREXHAM, YEOVIL 1 CHICAGO ROCK CAFS 2 JUMPIN JAKS 3 LIFE 4 LIQUID 5 OCEANA 6 LAVA IGNITE
