7878v03 PH Rp FC-p27 020305. qxp 4 3 05 2:04 am Page 03 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2004 03 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT fatalities and seek to focus on leading indicators such as One of the dominant features of 2004 was the increased near hits and tackling unsafe behaviour.
We have made demand for a range of commodities as Chinas industrialising good progress over the last four years and we will do our economy continued to consume more raw materials.
Copper, utmost to return to the path of improvement.
nickel, zinc, coal and iron ore markets all benefited materially and a number of these commodities reached their highest price Q.
What changes are planned in the composition levels for many years.
As a result of these strong conditions as of the board?
well as rising platinum, gold and diamond prices, Anglo American A.
Bill Nairn, our technical director, retired from the board at reported record headline earnings of $2.69 billion and headline the end of 2004.
I am grateful for the experience that he earnings per share increased by 57% to $1.88 per share.
brought to the Group and especially his relentless focus on safety.
At the AGM, two non-executive directors will Nonetheless, the year was dominated by two major influences be retiring: Sir David Scholey and Gran Lindahl.
Sir David volatile global markets, largely because of the uncertain outlook steps down after a long association with the Anglo Group, in the Middle East: and the possibility of a marked slowdown in including serving as a director since December 1999.
Gran Chinas economic growth rate.
During the second, and again in has brought his wide international experience and knowledge the fourth quarter of the year, markets grew concerned that of sustainable development to our deliberations.
We shall official Chinese attempts to slow down excessive investment miss them.
and growth would result in a hard landing.
During each of these periods, metals prices responded by dropping sharply and then One new independent non-executive director, Ralph rebounding fairly quickly.
Chinese GDP growth is now projected Alexander, will be proposed at the AGM.
He is an American to average around 8% for 2005. citizen and is chief executive of BP Petrochemicals.
He brings extensive experience of the energy business and has a In line with the boards policy of progressively increasing strong international background.
Two new executive directors dividends, the board has decided to increase the final dividend will also be proposed: David Hathorn and Simon Thompson, by 12 cents to 51 cents per share, resulting in a total dividend respectively chief executives of the Paper and Packaging and of 70 cents per share for 2004, up 30%.
Both have played a major part in the international expansion of the Group.
In addition, it is proposed that Ren Mdori be elected a director with effect STRATEGY from 1 June 2005.
Ren, a French national, who has Since our primary London listing in mid-1999, Anglo American extensive experience of UK and US business cultures, has grown by over 70%, with a present market capitalisation will be joining us from The BOC Group plc, where he is now approaching $38 billion.
Our strong cash generation finance director.
He will succeed Tony Lea as finance director has been matched by one of the largest capital expenditure in September and Tony will leave the board in December.
Our existing $4.7 billion project pipeline and more than $8 billion in unapproved projects, spread In relation to the Combined Code requirement to comply across all our business units and geographies, provide an or explain I should mention that we will briefly be excellent platform for growth going forward.
We will continue non-compliant in that from June to December less than to enhance and add value to Anglos portfolio of world-class half the board, excluding myself, will be independent assets in all areas: in particular, through: non-executive directors.
I believe that this is fully justified in ensuring continuity and a smooth handover between Securing the most competitive cost of capital Tony and Ren.
Owning world-class assets Anglos high-calibre employees Innovation and entrepreneurship Sir Mark Moody-Stuart Development of world-class technology Chairman Maintaining high standards of sustainable development Becoming the business partner of choice to suppliers, customers and key stakeholders.
Our strategy for future investment remains focused around the three key areas that make up our portfolio, namely Precious Commodities, Metals and Minerals, and Paper and Packaging.
ACQUISITIONS AND ORGANIC GROWTH Although Anglo American remains cautious about valuations at this point in the cycle, the Group continues to examine expansion and acquisition opportunities in all its business sectors.
The following overview of our business units covers key developments: detailed summaries of operating performances are contained on pages 7 to 14 of this report.
Platinum We are actively focusing on achieving further business optimisation in Anglo Platinum.
The strong level of the South African rand continues to materially affect the rate of expansion and also operating costs when translated into US dollars.
The projects that have been earmarked for development will continue to be reviewed in light of the strong rand.
7878v03 PH Rp FC-p27 020305. qxp 2 3 05 11:52 pm Page 4 4 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2004 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Despite the loss of production due to industrial action during on fewer, larger, lower cost assets, its 25% stake in Nkomati October, arising out of wage negotiations, Anglo Platinum Nickel was disposed of in February for $37 million and Hudson achieved its 2004 target of producing 2.45 million ounces Bay in Canada was sold for $257 million.
The company recently established a co-operative joint venture contract with Sichuan Mineral Resource Coal Company to conduct exploration for platinum group metals in In December, Anglo American and Mitsui announced the China's Sichuan Province.
approval of the $653 million Dawson Complex, which will include the recapitalisation of the existing operation at Moura Gold in central Queensland, Australia and the establishment of two One of the most significant transactions of the year was the additional operations on adjacent tenures.
This will increase merger of AngloGold and Ashanti Goldfields, which was completed production by 5.7 million tonnes per annum over Mouras in April.
The merger has resulted in a substantial increase in gold existing saleable production of 7 million tonnes per annum.
reserves against a background of a diminishing global reserve In October, Anglo American and Kumba signed Heads of base.
AngloGold Ashanti continues to pursue further growth Agreement that could lead to the development of a major opportunities in new frontiers such as Laos, the Philippines coking coal mine in central Queensland.
and Russia, in partnership with junior mining and exploration companies.
AngloGold Ashanti, in which Anglo American holds In August, Anglo Coal and Eyesizwe announced that they a 51% stake, is the worlds second largest gold mining company were entering into a 50:50 joint venture to mine the Arnot in terms of production.
North coal reserves, known as Mafube Colliery, and mining has commenced.
A new opencast operation, the Isibonelo Colliery, is Diamonds being developed to provide Sasol with 5 million tonnes of coal per fide Beers strategy of Supplier of Choice, which focuses annum.
Production is due to commence in mid-2005.
Anglo Coal on driving demand in the diamond industry, continues to be and BHP Billiton are jointly investigating the proposed expansion implemented successfully.
Central to this has been the realignment of coal resources in the Western Complex in South Africa.
of fide Beers relationship with its sightholders, a process that is now substantially complete and that has brought about In Colombia the approved expansion at Cerrejn from 22 million considerable benefits for fide Beers and the diamond industry to 28 million tonnes per annum is on schedule and should be as a whole.
fide Beers $180 million a year advertising and achieved by 2007. marketing spend has been significantly bolstered by an increase in advertising programmes by sightholders and their downstream Paper and Packaging trade partners.
Following years of underperformance in terms of In April, Anglo Americans wholly-owned subsidiary Mondi market share, diamonds are now competing successfully with acquired the remaining 30% interest in Frantschach for a total other luxury goods.
At the retail level, sales of diamonds worldwide consideration of $390 million.
The acquisitions of Copamexs exceeded $60 billion for the first time.
industrial packaging businesses renamed Mondimex and Roman Bauernfeind were completed in the first quarter of 2004 and are An important breakthrough took place in July when fide Beers performing according to expectations, having strengthened announced that it had reached a settlement with the US Mondis position in the North American and central European Department of Justice for the resolution of a longstanding case markets respectively.
against fide Beers in respect of industrial diamonds.
The resolution of the case underscores the companys commitment to be fully In November, Mondi announced a major restructuring focused legally compliant throughout the world.
on global product lines, namely Mondi Business Paper and Mondi Packaging.
The reorganisation has streamlined and rebranded the In December, fide Beers announced that it had secured a 25 year existing businesses under the Mondi name, allowing the group to renewal of all four mining leases in Botswana, on a coterminous improve its visibility to customers and to reduce its overhead costs.
fide Beers and the European Commission are in the final stages of a constructive dialogue to address the Commissions Industrial Minerals concerns over aspects of the five year trade agreement between In the UK, Anglo Industrial Minerals new cement plant at Buxton fide Beers and Russian diamond producer Alrosa.
commenced operating in March and is ramping up to full capacity of 800,000 tonnes per annum.
The project cost of 110 million Base Metals was 5 million below budget.
In China, the Yang Quarry, On the back of high base metals prices and record production situated 140 kilometres from Shanghai and the closest reserve of copper, nickel, zinc and mineral sands products, Base Metals of top-quality asphalt aggregates to Chinas commercial capital, achieved record headline earnings of just over $1 billion.
commenced production at the end of the year.
Production will The acquisition of Minera Sur Andes was a major contributor be ramped up during 2005.
Following completion of the Gois to this performance with headline earnings of $430 million.
project in 2003, Copebrs almost doubled its contribution on the A significant achievement during the year was the Skorpion zinc back of buoyant Brazilian fertiliser markets.
mine in Namibia commencing commercial production in May and achieving 95% of design capacity by year end.
Commissioning Ferrous Metals and Industries of the $654 million Collahuasi Rosario Project in Chile commenced With global steel production surpassing 1 billion tonnes for the in April, some five weeks ahead of schedule and under budget.
first time, the contribution from Ferrous Metals and Industries The project rapidly achieved design capacity and will enable operations increased more than fourfold.
Regarding Kumba's Collahuasi to maintain production of copper in concentrate at Hope Downs iron ore project in Australia, which has been the a long term average rate of 400,000 tonnes per annum.
subject of a dispute with a local partner, Kumba is appealing a recent arbitration decision.
Subject to Kumbas rights of appeal, Codemin, in Brazil, became a wholly-owned subsidiary following the process for determining a fair value, at which the local the purchase of the remaining 10% from the International Finance partner can elect to acquire Kumbas project interest, has Corporation, and the expansion project was completed on time commenced.
Until Kumbas participation in the project is finally and on budget and will ramp up to full capacity during the first resolved, it continues to perform its contractual obligations in quarter of 2005.
In line with Base Metals strategy of focusing respect of the project.
7878v03 PH Rp FC-p27 020305. qxp 4 3 05 2:04 am Page 05 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2004 05 SAFETY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OUTLOOK It is with deep regret that we report the deaths of 28 contractors The outlook for the year ahead is very dependent upon growth and 21 employees in accidents at our operations during the year.
prospects for Organisation for Economic Co-operation and This represented an increase of five deaths compared with 2003, Development OECD countries and China.
While the leading following four years of consistent decline.
Such accidents are indicators for the OECD currently point to some slowing of wholly unacceptable and we will be redoubling our efforts to industrial output growth during the first half, China continues eliminate them.
It was encouraging, however, that the lost time to grow strongly and will remain a vital market for many of our injury frequency rate improved by 23% which indicates commodities.
On the supply side, global output is generally set success in embedding safer behaviour at site level.
to increase and much will depend on the industry maintaining capital discipline in the face of higher commodity prices.
A key We have made significant progress in addressing the sustainable challenge for the Group will be to continue improving operating development agenda, including launching our Socio-Economic efficiencies and cost control against a background of volatile Assessment Toolbox: making strides in improving local business currencies and, in particular, a weak US dollar.
In the meantime, development and initiating a pilot sustainable development risk Anglo Americans geographic and commodity diversity, its management process.
significant project pipeline, its disciplined acquisition process and strong cash generation will continue to underpin performance.
SOUTH AFRICA: BLACK ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT During the year, several developments took place concerning the OUR EMPLOYEES legislative framework governing the transformation process in At the end of 2004, Bill Nairn retired as technical director.
Most notably, the Mineral and I would like to thank Bill for his long and dedicated service Petroleum Resources Development Act, which aims to make to the Group.
He has been succeeded as technical director by transformation effective across a broad front including human Tony Redman, who is also chairman of Anglo Coal, and who resources and community development, as well as employment has been appointed to the Executive Board.
In February 2005, equity came into effect on 1 May 2004.
All South African we announced the appointment of Lazarus Zim as chief mining operations are focused on the implementation of this Act.
executive officer and Godfrey Gomwe as chief operating officer Anglo American has submitted a number of applications to convert of Anglo American Corporation of South Africa.
Lazarus will old order mineral rights into new order rights.
The Group hopes also chair the South Africa Transformation Committee and has to be able to report progress in this regard later in the year.
Finally, my appreciation and thanks go to all our employees worldwide who, through their hard During the year the South African government confirmed work and dedication, have helped make this a record year for that royalties in terms of the Royalty Bill will become payable Anglo American.
only in 2009: a second draft of the Royalty Bill is expected to be unveiled in the future.
A J Trahar We have adopted a comprehensive approach to transformation Chief Executive in South Africa, including the establishment of a Transformation Committee, which has been integrated with all the business units activities.
Procurement remains an important area of focus: over the last year we spent the equivalent of $900 million on business development and the procurement of goods and services from black-owned businesses, up 62% on the previous year.
Mondi South Africa concluded two significant empowerment transactions during 2004.
First in June, a joint venture was formed with Shanduka Resources formerly MCI Resources in its integrated newsprint business, with Mondi retaining a 58% interest and, secondly, Mondi disposed of 42% of its $370 million South African packaging businesses to Shanduka, effective 1 January 2005.
These empowerment transactions allowed for further interests in the newsprint and packaging businesses to be set aside for broad based participation by Mondi South Africa employees and relevant communities.
DISPOSALS During 2004, a number of disposals were made.
These included Anglo Americans 20% stake in Gold Fields Limited for $1.18 billion, the remaining interest in FirstRand Limited for $47 million and the Groups 49% stake in Terra Industries Inc for $255 million.
In line with Base Metals strategy of focusing on fewer, larger, lower cost assets, its 25% stake in Nkomati Nickel was disposed of in February for $37 million and Hudson Bay in Canada was sold for $257 million in December.
Anglo American and BHP Billiton have recently announced the sale of their respective 40% and 60% shareholdings in Samancor Chrome for an enterprise value of $469 million, the sale will be effective 1 April 2005, subject to obtaining regulatory approvals.
