Marks and Spencer Group plc Chief Executives review ROGER HOLMES In the last year we have established new areas of growth in Money and 2003.
We are committed to achieve a further 3% increase in and Home, but the initial surge in recovery of our core Clothing margins by 2006 through additional and Food business faltered.
We will now take fundamental action to changes to our supply chain.
improve our products, supply chain, stores and ways of working.
The rapid and low cost refurbishment of our stores over the last three years helped in our initial turnaround, but Group operating profit before We, therefore, face some significant we want to go further now, focusing exceptional items increased last structural and competitive issues but on our existing city centre and high year by 12% to 866 million on a 53 Im confident that we can respond street stores and testing new concepts.
week basis, due to the relatively to them.
We are fortunate to have a dedicated strong performance from Menswear, Our customers continue to rate workforce with a relatively low staff Lingerie and womens casualwear, our food offer more highly than our turnover, but we can be more efficient.
improved margins and tight control of competition.
They see us as selling As a result we will be accelerating our costs.
On a 52 week basis Group food that is a real treat and of better Retail Change Programme in stores operating profit before exceptional quality.
We plan to develop the and cutting costs at our Head Ofces items increased by 6.5% to 822.9 appeal of our offer while reducing with the expected loss of 1,000 jobs.
million after absorbing 59 million for reasons for customers to go elsewhere.
the launch of the &more card.
I have strengthened my top team, We are on-track against our existing appointing Vittorio Radice to take Clothing market share for the year plans to open 500,000 sq ft of responsibility for Clothing, store declined by 0.2 percentage points to additional Food-only space by March development and Home, Maurice 11%, because of a decline in 2006.
We are planning to extend this Helfgott to take charge of Food and 2 Womenswear and weak performance total footage and will communicate Mark McKeon to be Executive Director in Childrenswear.
We have our plans later this year.
We will of Retail, International and Outlets.
strengthened our clothing teams, continue to develop our product particularly in Womenswear, to deliver ranges in global and special occasion In the last three years we have our key priorities of improved ranges, food as well as in fresh and healthy restructured the business, stabilised choice and value.
We aim to renew at least 30% our core operations and opened up major expansion of our Limited of our food ranges this year.
However, we Collection, a new approach to our still have a significant amount of work We will follow the opening of the smartwear offer, which will arrive in to do to secure the full potential of Marks & Spencer Lifestore in 66 stores from September 2004.
Gateshead with two further pilot are delivering greater choice to stores.
We will also continue to reI am under no illusions about the customers in 90 stores, building on position our Home offer, taking challenges we face, but I am confident the success of initial trials.
And we will lessons from the recent introduction we can succeed.
I believe that our make the Womenswear sales oors of new product.
plans can put the business on a more easier to shop learning from our secure footing and deliver benets to success in Menswear.
We continue to Our significant investment in Money our customers, employees, reinvest part of our sourcing gains in has created a customer base of over shareholders and suppliers.
lower prices, particularly in our entry two million &more credit and loyalty price points.
Our immediate priority is to increase card spending and Food held its market share last year, balances so that the credit card moves benefiting from the roll-out of Simply into profit during 2006.
Consumers are tending to increase their spend on large, More than five years ago we moved Roger Holmes weekly, supermarket shops and, manufacturing of our clothing offshore Chief Executive with the increasing number of quality and this now represents over 90% of convenience stores, are spreading our production.
This move improved their top up shops more widely.
