Chief Executives review 03 03 Chief Executives review Ralph Findlay Business development 550 formerly managed pubs to lease or The combination of good like-for-like tenancy, and have achieved growth by sales growth on a comparable 52-week accelerating pub investment through basis in our pubs and maintained the development and acquisition of both operating margins were again amongst community and food-led pubs.
In WDB the best in the industry, contributing to Brands, returns on capital have more the 4.7% increase in turnover, the 6.3% than doubled since 2000, whilst capital increase in underlying profit before employed has halved.
taxation, and the 10.0% increase in underlying earnings per share.
We have We also benefit from our proven a clear strategy to develop the business approach to estate management: we through continuing investment in our have a preference for freehold rather pubs and new sites and in our beer than leasehold ownership of assets and brands.
Organic growth is being for community pubs over high street achieved and the business has pubs.
As a consequence, we have good momentum.
benefited from capital appreciation in pub values and limited our exposure to This performance reflects the fact that the pitfalls affecting high street trading.
we manage and operate high quality pubs and beer brands and manage our We were amongst the first to identify assets flexibly.
Since 1999 we have sold that targeted refurbishment investment over 900 pubs and transferred around in community pubs generates substantial 06 W&DB 2004 Annual report Chief Executives review 03 Good like-for-like sales growth.
Operating margins are amongst the best in the industry.
returns, and relationships with tenants Food will be a more important component and lessees improves after introducing of our business in the future, as new ideas such as high discounts and refurbished and new-build pubs have independent rent review panels.
Our higher than average levels of food sales.
vertically integrated model allows flexibility in dealing with regulatory or other We have seen consistent growth in the cost pressures, and maximises our informal eating-out market, and our opportunity when making acquisitions.
like-for-like sales growth in food this year was 7.8%.
The reasons for our Pathfinder Pubs success include our focus on menu Turnover in our managed pubs division development, high standards of service increased by 9.0% to 275.2m, including and hygiene, and a clear value-fora 13.4m contribution from Wizard money position in the market.
Underlying operating profit increased by 10.2% to 58.4m, including The development of Pathfinder Pubs a 2.0m contribution from Wizard Inns.
accelerated in June 2004 with the acquisition of Wizard Inns.
The Wizard Total like-for-like sales increased by Inns estate of 63 managed pubs is 3.2%, a strong performance despite situated mainly in the South of England, poorer summer weather than last year.
and comprises outlets in residential neighbourhoods and in good locations Like-for-like sales are, however, only one in commercial areas.
The estate is of measure of performance.
Underlying exceptional quality and represents a operating margin increased by 0.5% very good fit with our existing business.
to 21.5%, an improvement achieved The integration of Wizard Inns has gone despite significant regulatory cost smoothly with the head office and increases.
This was the result of utilising systems integration completed within the 6m investment in electronic point ten weeks.
The anticipated synergies of sale EPOS systems made in 2003, of at least 2.5m per annum are already better purchasing, and productivity being realised, and performance improvements which held labour costs has been in line with expectations.
at the same percentage to sales ratio Opportunities exist to convert a number as in 2003. of sites to our existing operating formats.
Over the last four years, we have During the year, we built or acquired developed our food offering significantly.
five new community pubs with a further Food now accounts for 29% of turnover 30 sites in various stages of development.
in Pathfinder Pubs, and can be up to Building new freehold pubs enables us 60% of turnover in our food-led pubs.
to grow our business in prime trading 07 W&DB 2004 Annual report Chief Executives review 03 The Lime Kiln Pitcher & Piano The Mitre Oak The Hope & Anchor Port y Waen Richmond Hartlebury Ross on Wye locations and in areas beyond our the Pathfinder Pubs estate, average traditional trading geography.
With an turnover per pub is around 11,300 average investment of around 1.5m per week, up 11.9%, and the average per pub, we can create real value annual EBITDA earnings before interest, through organic development.
We aim tax, depreciation and amortisation to build or acquire 20 new pubs in per pub is 177,200, up 12.0%.
The Union Pub Company During the year we completed 47 major Turnover in our leased and tenanted refurbishments of existing pubs, with pub division increased by 2.1% to an average investment of around 118.2m, and underlying operating 300,000 per pub.
Underlying over 100 Bostin Locals great value operating margin increased from 42.3% community pubs and over 30 to 43.1%.
Like-for-like sales increased Service That Suits larger food-led by 4.3%.
These investments have produced consistent cash returns in excess of In addition to strong like-for-like sales 20% over the last four years, and growth, the average EBITDA per pub have provided us with the template for is approximately 57,600 per year, new-build pubs on greenfield sites.
The operating formats for Bostin Locals and Service That Suits have The Union Pub Company is regarded by continued to evolve, and we believe many as one of the best quality leased that our overall offer is amongst the and tenanted estates in the sector with best in the community pub sector.
an average barrelage per pub of over 280 barrels per year.
Of the 1,162 pubs We refurbished five Pitcher & Piano bars in the estate, over 500 are now under during the year, and have achieved good long-term 21-year lease agreements.
Six more will be completed in The introduction of our Open House the new financial year.
lease in 2002 has proved to be an extremely popular move, and the During the year we transferred 41 demand for pubs to be let under this smaller managed pubs to The Union agreement has exceeded our initial Pub Company.
These are good pubs expectations.
W&DB which are more suited to being run flexibly by lessees or tenants, and as such The Union Pub Company has consistently We pride ourselves can be operated more cost effectively.
introduced innovative ideas which on high standards As a consequence of the development of enhance our relationship with licensees.
08 W&DB 2004 Annual report The Voyager Guisborough 09 W&DB 2004 Annual report Chief Executives review 03 In 2000, we were the first pub operator The development of our estate is also to insist on Plain English agreements contributing to our good performance.
which help tenants and lessees We acquired 20 new pubs last year, understand the nature of their investing 9.3m, and we aim to acquire obligations.
In 2001, we were the first around 30 in the new financial to introduce independently chaired year.
The pubs we seek to acquire rent panels to ensure a fair rent setting are generally those suitable for lease, process.
In 2003, we were the first to with an existing food operation or commit resources to helping tenants the potential to develop one.
We also through the licensing reform process.
invested 18.3m on pub refurbishment through a combination of investment This year, we developed a facility which made before leasing pubs or joint allows tenants and lessees to benefit schemes undertaken with the licensee.
from our Group purchasing power for items such as utilities, food and During the year, 41 smaller managed equipment, and introduced new pubs were transferred from Pathfinder programmes to help licensees exploit Pubs.
In the last five years, we have their pubs potential to make more from moved over 550 pubs from management specific sales categories such as food to tenancy or lease.
Our training programme The Skill Pool saw a record WDB Brands number of attendees.
Turnover was 120.3m compared to 10 W&DB 2004 Annual report Chief Executives review 03 122.3m last year.
Turnover in the In the last two years, we have developed second half-year was 1.9% ahead of a strong business offering services last year, the first half-year reflecting which include bottling, packaging the termination of a large low-margin and distribution to a wide range of supply contract last year.
Underlying customers, including regional and operating margin increased by 0.4% national brewers.
In 2005, we will to 17.8%, and underlying operating become the brewer of Draught Bass profit increased by 0.5% to 21.4m.
at our Burton brewery on behalf of Interbrew UK a move that will see WDB Brands is the largest ale business us become the largest cask ale brewer amongst its peer group those who in the UK, and brewer of two of the both brew beer and own and operate top premium ales in the country pubs source: ACNielsen.
Although the Marstons Pedigree and Draught Bass.
market overall is mature, there are real opportunities for beer businesses that Over the last two years we have are truly passionate about ale in introduced a number of new products, terms of brand awareness, beer quality including Marstons Old Empire the and all areas of service and delivery.
Together with Marstons Pedigrees strong performance, they In total, WDB Brands delivered 1.2 contributed to a 4.6% increase in million equivalent barrels of all products premium ale volumes last year, and to the on-trade last year - the equivalent an increase in market share.
of nearly one million pints a day.
We pride ourselves on very high standards In standard ale, which includes the of service from our customer service Bankss and Mansfield brands, our centres, draymen and beer quality performance was in line with the market.
technicians, all of whom have direct customer contact.
We adopt the same We continue to invest in our breweries philosophy in the parts of the business and our brands.
Early in the New Year that customers do not see in our we will complete a 2.3m investment maltings, breweries in Wolverhampton at the Burton brewery, including a and Burton, our modern bottling line new brewhouse and refrigeration and warehouses.
The feedback we have plant which will improve efficiency WDB Brands from customers indicates that our high and environmental performance.
performance standards are amongst We have also just launched a new Truly passionate the key reasons why we are winning television marketing campaign for about ale new business.
11 W&DB 2004 Annual report Chief Executives review 03 The Hope & Anchor Ross on Wye 12 W&DB 2004 Annual report Chief Executives review 03 In the new financial year, we will benefit process before proposals are eventually from new distribution agreements with finalised, but in the meantime we J D Wetherspoon and Mitchells & have already carried out significant Butlers, which represent excellent investment in pub gardens and patios, opportunities to increase the availability which would not be affected by a ban, of our brands.
and we will increase the number of smoke free pubs over time.
Outlook We continue to make good progress in Our gearing level is prudent, providing acquiring new sites and pubs in line us with considerable flexibility to take with our plans and we believe that we advantage of opportunities as they are in a strong position to exploit good arise.
From current levels, we have acquisition opportunities.
In evaluating scope to increase debt whilst still opportunities, the most important remaining conservatively financed.
benchmark is the extent to which acquisitions can generate sustainable The first eight weeks of the new returns at a satisfactory margin above financial year have started well, and our cost of capital.
We would expect any in the light of market conditions, we acquisition to be earnings enhancing.
believe that our business model and our approach to financing leave us The Chairman has referred to well placed to out-perform the sector.
regulatory pressures in his statement.
The Government recently published a White Paper proposing a ban on smoking in public places, including the majority of pubs, by the end of Ralph Findlay Chief Executive 2008.
There will be a consultation 13 W&DB 2004 Annual report
