Melrose Industries PLC 56 Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance report STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE business needs.
There were four scheduled Board meetings held during The Board of Directors remains committed to maintaining the high the year and the attendance of each of the Directors is shown on page standards of corporate governance required to ensure the Company 60.
Several Board meetings were also held during the year in relation can continue to deliver its long term strategic goals for shareholders.
As to corporate matters such as the crystallisation of the 2009 Incentive part of this approach, the Board supports the principles of the 2010 UK Shares and creation of the 2012 Incentive Share Plan, the acquisition of Corporate Governance Code the UK Code as it applied to the year Elster Group S. E. and the Scheme of Arrangement.
BOARD BALANCE, INDEPENDENCE AND PERFORMANCE The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good The Board believes that the Directors possess diverse business experience governance.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2012, the in areas complementary to the activities of the Company.
Biographies of Company complied with the provisions of the UK Code with the the Directors are shown on pages 42 and 43.
These biographies identify exception of a specic element of Schedule A, which recommends that any other appointments held by the Directors.
The only executive Director grants under executive share options and long term incentive plans to have held a non-executive Director appointment elsewhere during the should normally be phased rather than awarded in one block.
Under financial year ended 31 December 2012 is Christopher Miller, who was a the 2012 Incentive Share Plan, details of which are provided on pages non-executive Director of TMO Renewables Limited.
Mr Miller resigned 63 and 64 of the Remuneration report, entitlements to the executive from this position on 31 August 2012 and he was allowed to retain the Directors were awarded in one block, rather than phased.
The 2012 remuneration he received from that appointment.
Incentive Share Plan was recommended as being in the best interests of shareholders as a whole by the Board of Directors and was approved In accordance with the provisions of the UK Code, consideration has by shareholders in a General Meeting held on 11 April 2012.
With regard been given to the independence of all the non-executive Directors: the to all other aspects of executive Directors remuneration, the Companys Board considers all the non-executive Directors to be independent.
policies fully comply with the provisions of Schedule A of the UK Code.
Miles Templeman was appointed as a non-executive Director of Melrose in October 2003: even though he has now served as a non-executive The statements below describe how the Company has applied the Director for more than nine years, the Board is of the opinion that due principles identied in the UK Code to the governance arrangements to his invaluable experience in financial and other corporate matters, Mr that have been adopted.
Templeman continues to maintain both his effectiveness and independence.
The Board will continue to monitor this position but feel at the present time THE BOARD Mr Templeman continues to make an important contribution in his position Members: t Christopher Miller, Executive Chairman as the senior independent non-executive Director.
t David Roper, Executive Vice-Chairman from 9 May 2012, previously Chief Executive The non-executive Directors are not entitled to any bonus or shares t Simon Peckham, Chief Executive from 9 May 2012, under the 2012 Incentive Share Plan.
previously Chief Operating officer Performance of the Board and each Committee is evaluated annually t Geoffrey Martin, Group Finance Director in accordance with the UK Code.
As part of the performance appraisal t Miles Templeman, Senior Non-executive Director process both the executive and non-executive Directors are required to t Perry Crosthwaite, Non-executive Director complete performance questionnaires on an annual basis in relation to t Justin Dowley, Non-executive Director the Board, its committees and their fellow Directors.
All responses are t John Grant, Non-executive Director reviewed and collated by the Company Secretary before further action is taken, as necessary.
This process also helps to determine if any of the All of the above Directors were appointed to the Board of Melrose Directors have any specic training requirements.
Industries PLC with effect from 8 October 2012 and all of the above Directors save for Simon Peckham and Geoffrey Martin resigned from The Chairman has held meetings with the Directors, including the senior the Board of Melrose PLC with effect from 27 November 2012. independent non-executive Director, Miles Templeman, to discuss the performance of individual executive Directors and the Board as a whole.
THE MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES It was considered that the individual Directors and the Board as a whole t effectively manage and control the Company via a formal schedule of are operating effectively.
The non-executive Directors, led by Miles matters reserved for its decision: Templeman, the senior non-executive Director, also met during the year t determine and review Company strategy and policy: to discuss the performance of the Chairman and as part of this process t consider acquisitions, disposals and asset requests for major capital also took account of the views of the executive Directors.
expenditure: t review trading performance: The Board is aware that within the provisions of the UK Code there is a t ensure that adequate funding and personnel are in place: requirement to carry out externally facilitated Board evaluations at least every three years and these will be carried out in 2013. t maintain sound internal control systems: and t report to shareholders and give consideration to all other significant The Nomination Committee currently takes into account a variety of factors financial matters.
before recommending any new appointments to the Board including Board responsibilities are undertaken in conjunction with senior relevant skills to perform the role, experience, knowledge, ethnicity and management, who in turn are responsible for the day-to-day conduct gender.
The most important priority of the Nomination Committee has been, of the Groups operations and for reporting to the Board on items of and will continue to be, ensuring that the best candidate is selected to join signicance and progress against objectives.
The Board meets regularly the Board and this approach will remain in place going forward.
during the year as well as on an ad hoc basis as required by time critical Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 57 THE BOARD Christopher Miller Executive Chairman 1 David Roper Executive Vice-Chairman 2 Simon Peckham Chief Executive Geoffrey Martin Group Finance Director Miles Templeman Senior Non-executive Director Perry Crosthwaite Non-executive Director Justin Dowley Non-executive Director John Grant Non-executive Director NOMINATION COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Miles Templeman Chairman 3 John Grant Chairman Perry Crosthwaite Chairman Perry Crosthwaite Perry Crosthwaite Justin Dowley Justin Dowley Justin Dowley John Grant John Grant Miles Templeman Miles Templeman Christopher Miller 1 David Roper became Executive Vice-Chairman with effect from 9 May 2012.
Prior to this he held the position of Chief Executive.
2 Simon Peckham became Chief Executive with effect from 9 May 2012.
Prior to this he held the position of Chief Operating officer.
3 John Grant became Chairman of the Audit Committee on 6 March 2012.
Prior to this the Chairman was Miles Templeman.
New Directors joining the Board receive a full, formal and tailored ANNUAL RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS induction shortly after their appointment.
Directors are advised that they In accordance with the provisions of the UK Code, all of the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who stood for re-election at the 2012 AGM.
The Articles adopted in October is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that 2012 require the Directors to stand for annual re-election, ensuring applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Board may seek continued compliance with the UK Code.
As such, all Directors will offer independent legal and financial advice in the furtherance of its duties, at themselves for re-election at the 2013 AGM, to be held on 8 May 2013. the Companys expense.
The Board and Nomination Committee have carefully considered the A pack of brieng papers and an agenda are provided to each Director time commitments required and the contribution made by each Director.
in advance of each scheduled Board or standing Committee meeting.
Both the Nomination Committee and the Board are of the belief that the The Directors are able to seek further clarification and information performance of each executive and non-executive Director continues on any matter from any other Director or employee of the Group to be effective and that each Director demonstrates commitment to his whenever necessary.
Decisions are taken by the Board in conjunction role.
with the recommendations of its Committees and advice from external consultants, advisers and senior management.
CHAIRMAN, VICE-CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE On 9 May 2012, David Roper was appointed as Executive ViceDIRECTOR TERMS AND CONDITIONS Chairman of Melrose: Simon Peckham was appointed as Chief The terms and conditions of the executive Directors service contracts Executive on the same date.
Christopher Miller remains in his position and the non-executive Directors appointments are available for as Executive Chairman.
inspection at the Companys registered ofce.
The non-executive Directors appointment letters are also available on the Companys The roles of the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman are, and will remain, website, www.
Executive Directors service contracts separate to that of the Chief Executive of the Company, in accordance and non-executive Directors appointment letters will also be available to with best practice and Board policy.
view immediately prior to and during the Companys AGM, to be held on 8 May 2013.
The Chairman, with the assistance of the Vice-Chairman, are together responsible for leadership of the Board.
The Chairman sets the Board The service agreements of all executive Directors were novated from agenda and ensures that adequate time is given to the discussion of Melrose PLC to Melrose Industries PLC in November 2012, as part of issues, particularly those of a strategic nature.
Responsibility for ensuring the Scheme of Arrangement to insert a new holding company into the effective communications with shareholders rests with the Chairman, Group structure.
All of the non-executive Directors were also issued Vice-Chairman and the two other executive Directors.
The Chief with letters of appointment in relation to their directorships of Melrose Executive is responsible for strategic direction and decisions involving Industries PLC as part of the Scheme of Arrangement.
the day-to-day management of the Company.
Melrose Industries PLC 58 Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance report continued COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD being considered.
The Audit Committee has the right to invite any other In accordance with the provisions of the UK Code, the Board has Directors and or employees to attend meetings where this is considered three standing Committees: the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination appropriate.
In addition, the Audit Committee meets at least once per Committees.
Each of these includes the four independent non-executive year with both the external and internal auditors, without management Directors.
The duties of the Committees are set out in formal terms of present.
These are available from the Company Secretary and on the Companys website, www.
The Company Secretary acts The Audit Committee is expected to meet not less than three times as Secretary to each of the Committees.
a year and the Audit Committee met three times during 2012.
The attendance of its members, along with the Group Finance Director, is AUDIT COMMITTEE shown in the table on page 60.
Members: John Grant, Chairman from 6 March 2012 Perry Crosthwaite GROUP AUDITOR Justin Dowley The Groups external auditor is recommended for reappointment by the Miles Templeman Chairman to 6 March 2012 Audit Committee, which also assesses the appropriateness of the scope of audit work performed and provides recommendations in respect of their remuneration and terms of engagement.
The Audit Committee MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES: receives regular reports from the Groups external auditor.
t review and monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, including its interim accounts, the annual report, interim The Audit Committee has a policy on the engagement of the external management and preliminary statements and any other formal auditor for the supply of non-audit services.
During 2012, the Audit announcements relating to the financial performance of the Group: Committee requested a detailed analysis to be carried out of the nont keep under review the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, audit services performed for the Group over recent years by Deloitte internal audit and controls, risk management systems and compliance LLP, to include an appropriate benchmarking exercise.
Results of the controls: analysis were presented to the Audit Committee who concluded that t focus and challenge the consistency of accounting policies, they were satisfied with the continued independence of the Groups methods used to account for significant or unusual transactions and external auditor.
They also concluded that other external advisers were compliance with accounting standards: being retained for certain services previously undertaken by Deloitte LLP t review the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns but noted that Deloitte LLP would continue to be a key provider of nonin confidence about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting, in audit services to the Group where best placed to do so.
accordance with the Companys whistleblowing policy: and t develop, implement and monitor the Groups policy on external audit In accordance with best practice FRC guidelines, the Company policy and for overseeing the objectivity and effectiveness of the auditor.
in relation to non-audit services is kept under regular review: the policy outlines which non-audit services are pre-approved, which services The following actions have been taken by the Audit Committee during require the prior approval of the Audit Committee and which services the the year ending 31 December 2012 to discharge its duties: auditor is excluded from providing.
t review of the Annual Report and financial statements, the half-yearly During 2012, the main non-audit services provided by Deloitte LLP were financial report and the interim management statements issued in May in relation to taxation compliance, tax planning, corporate pensions and November 2012.
As part of this review the Committee received advice and corporate finance which included due diligence and a report from the external auditor on their audit of the Annual Report reporting accountants work in respect of the acquisition of Elster and and the financial statements and review of the half-yearly report: reporting accountants work for the new holding company of the Group.
Further information regarding non-audit fees can be found in note 7 to t considered the processes in place to generate forecasts of cash the consolidated financial statements.
ows and accounting valuation information, including the choice and consistent use of assumptions: The Audit Committee carries out regular reviews to ensure that auditor t considered the output from Group-wide processes used to identify, objectivity and independence is maintained at all times.
A different senior evaluate and mitigate risk: partner carries out the taxation audit of the Company compared to t reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and those working on the non-audit taxation services.
With regard to due disclosures made in the Annual Report and financial statements on diligence services a separate team, which was independent from the this matter: and audit team was used within Deloitte LLP to carry out this work.
Other t reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by corporate finance services were reviewed by an independent transaction the auditor.
services specialist partner within the audit rm.
No fees were paid to Deloitte LLP on a contingent basis.
Based on these strict procedures Each member of the Audit Committee brings recent, relevant financial the Audit Committee remains confident that auditor objectivity and experience from senior executive and non-executive positions as independence has been maintained but accepts that non-audit work described in their biographies on pages 42 and 43. should be controlled to ensure that it does not compromise the auditors position.
The Audit Committee invites the Group Finance Director, the Head of Financial Reporting and senior representatives of the external and internal auditors to attend meetings as appropriate to the business Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 59 Deloitte LLP was appointed in 2003.
At each year end, Deloitte LLP MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES: submits a letter setting out how it believes its independence and t annually review remuneration trends across the Group and obtain objectivity have been maintained.
They are also required to rotate the reliable and up-to-date information about the remuneration of audit partner responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits every five Directors and senior employees in other companies: years.
The Groups audit signing partner changed as part of that rotation t consider and make recommendations to the Board on the framework process in 2010.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the for the remuneration of the Companys executive Directors, the Groups capacity to recommend a particular rm for appointment as Company Secretary and other senior employees: auditor.
t ensure the executive Directors and senior employees are provided with appropriate annual incentives to encourage enhanced Following the acquisition of Elster in August 2012, Deloitte LLP were performance and that they are rewarded for their individual appointed as auditor of Elster Group S. E. and the vast majority of contributions to the success of the Company: and its trading entities for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Deloitte t approve the structure of, and determine targets for, any long term LLP replaced KPMG as Group auditor and as auditors of key Elster incentive plans operated by the Company.
For the year ended 31 December 2012 KPMG remained as local statutory auditors with regard to the accounts of the German In developing its recommendations, the Committee has given due statutory entities and reported to Deloitte LLP for the purposes of the consideration to Schedule 8 of Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Remuneration Committee is expected to meet not less than twice a INTERNAL AUDIT PROGRAMME year and during 2012 the Remuneration Committee met four times.
Due to the size and complexity of the Group, it is appropriate for an internal audit programme to be used within the business.
BM Howarth, The attendance of its members is shown in the table on page 60.
The an external rm, provides internal audit services to the Group.
A rotation report to shareholders on how Directors are remunerated, together programme is in place, such that every business unit will have an with details of individual Directors remuneration is shown in the internal audit at least once every three years, with the largest sites being Remuneration report on pages 62 to 67. reviewed at least once every two years.
The rotation programme allows divisional managements actions and responses to be followed up on a NOMINATION COMMITTEE timely basis.
Members: Miles Templeman, Chairman Perry Crosthwaite Following the acquisition of Elster, during 2012 BM Howarth have visited Justin Dowley the majority of Elster sites to undertake fair value reviews and as a result John Grant have been able to risk assess the Elster businesses and bring them into Christopher Miller the internal audit rotation programme from 2013 onwards.
MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES: The internal auditors remit includes assessment of the effectiveness t keep the size, structure and composition of the Board under regular of internal control systems, compliance with the Groups Policies and review and recommend to the Board any adjustments as may be Procedures Manual and a review of the businesses Balance Sheets.
necessary from time to time: A report of key findings and recommendations is presented to the Group Finance Director, Head of Financial Reporting and Group t give full consideration to succession planning to ensure an optimum Operations Controller, followed by a meeting to discuss these key balance of executive and non-executive Directors in terms of skills, findings and resulting in action points.
experience and diversity: t keep under review the leadership needs of the business: and BM Howarth present their key findings to the Audit Committee twice t keep up to date and fully informed about strategic issues and during the year.
A review of the internal audit process and scope of commercial changes affecting the Company and the markets in which work covered by the internal auditor is the responsibility of the Audit it operates.
Committee, to ensure their objectives, level of authority and resources are appropriate for the nature of the businesses under review.
A report of The Nomination Committee is expected to meet not less than twice significant findings is presented by the internal auditor to the Committee a year and during 2012 the Nomination Committee met twice.
The at each meeting and implementation of recommendations by the Board attendance of its members is shown in the table on page 60. are followed up at the subsequent Committee meeting.
The Nomination Committee uses external search consultants as REMUNERATION COMMITTEE appropriate.
Members: Perry Crosthwaite, Chairman Justin Dowley John Grant Miles Templeman Melrose Industries PLC 60 Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance report continued ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS The table below shows the attendance of each of the Directors at the scheduled and significant meetings of the Board and its standing Committees held during the year.
The quorum necessary for the transaction of business by the Board and each of its standing Committees is two.
Brieng papers and meeting agendas are provided to each Director in advance of each meeting.
Decisions are taken by the Board in conjunction with the recommendations of its Committees and advice from external advisers and senior management as appropriate.
The representations of any Director who is unable to attend a meeting of the Board or a standing Committee are duly considered by those Directors in attendance.
3 3 3 3 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination 1 Number of meetings 4342 Christopher Miller 4-- 2 David Roper 4--- 4 Simon Peckham 4- 1 - 2 Geoffrey Martin 4 3 -- Miles Templeman 3231 Perry Crosthwaite 3231 John Grant 4342 Justin Dowley 433 2 1 In addition, ad-hoc meetings are held from time-to-time which are attended by a quorum of Directors and are convened to deal with specic items of business.
2 Geoffrey Martin attends by invitation.
3 All meetings relate to the Board and Committees of Melrose PLC before the Scheme of Arrangement became effective on 27 November 2012, with the exception of one meeting for each of the Board and committees of Melrose Industries PLC that were held in December 2012.
4 Simon Peckham attended by invitation.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are also described in the Finance Directors review on pages 27 to 36.
Further Objectives and policy information can also be found in the Chief Executives review on pages The objectives of the Directors and senior management are to safeguard 14 to 26, and the Directors report on pages 44 to 55. and increase the value of the business and assets of the Group.
Achievement of their objectives requires the development of policies and The Group operates on a fide-centralised basis and the Board appropriate internal control frameworks to ensure the Groups resources has established an organisational structure with clear reporting are managed properly and any key risks are identied and mitigated procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
senior management, plant managers and financial controllers have been delegated responsibility by the Board for the establishment and The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups overall system of implementation of detailed control systems as appropriate for their internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, while the role of business.
management is to implement the policies set by the Board in respect of risk management and controls.
The Directors recognise that the An established programme of regular review is in place at the systems and processes established by the Board are designed to businesses and a culture of continuous improvement is encouraged manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business by the Board through regular meetings with senior management, objectives and cannot provide absolute assurance against material review of operating performance and progress against business plans.
The ongoing process of review provides assurance that the control environment is operating as intended.
The Board is committed to satisfying the internal control guidance for Directors set out in the revised version of the Turnbull Guidance on The Audit Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the internal Internal Control.
In accordance with this guidance, there is an ongoing control processes implemented across the Group through a review of process, regularly reviewed by the Directors, for identifying, evaluating, the key findings presented by the external and internal auditors and managing and mitigating where possible the significant risks faced by discussions with senior management on an ad hoc basis.
This process for reviewing the Groups internal controls is is responsible for considering Audit Committee recommendations consistent with prior years and has been in place throughout the 2012 in respect of internal controls and risk management and ensuring financial year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
implementation by management of those recommendations it deems appropriate for the business.
Managing and controlling risk The Group has policies which address a number of key business Following the acquisition of Elster in August 2012, the Company has risks, including strategic, operational, compliance, ethical and financial been working hard to ensure the successful integration of this business risks.
A summary of some of the strategic and operational risks and into Melrose reporting and governance frameworks, in order to ensure a uncertainties that could impact on the Companys performance is set consistent approach is maintained throughout the Group going forward.
out on pages 37 to 39. Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 61 Internal financial controls As a result of the increased size of the Group following the acquisition The Group has a comprehensive system for assessing the effectiveness of Elster, the Company is currently in the process of increasing its of the Groups internal financial controls, including strategic business resources within the area of compliance, both at Group and business planning and regular monitoring and reporting of financial performance.
unit level, in order to ensure that continuous improvements can be made A detailed annual budget is prepared by senior management and to existing policies and procedures.
thereafter is reviewed and formally adopted by the Board.
The budget and other targets are regularly updated via a rolling forecast process and The Company also operates a whistleblowing policy, as part of its regular business review meetings are held involving senior management anti-bribery and corruption procedures.
This enables individuals to assess performance.
The results of these reviews are in turn reported to make protected disclosures to their divisional human resources to and discussed by the Board at each meeting.
As discussed in manager, Company Secretary or the senior non-executive Director if the Audit Committee section on pages 58 and 59 of this report, BM they have concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting Howarth is the Groups internal auditor and they have also recently taken or other malpractices within their business.
Within the Elster business internal audit responsibility for the Elster businesses.
all employees have access to an independent whistleblowing helpline if they wish to raise any concerns about the business.
A total of 11 businesses have been visited for the purposes of internal audits during 2012, all in the first half of the year.
During the second COMMUNICATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS half of 2012 the focus has been on the opening Balance Sheets of The Company seeks to build on a mutual understanding of objectives Elster and the internal auditor assisted with this process by visiting 35 with its institutional shareholders, via the executive Directors, through sites.
The Directors are pleased to report that there were no material regular meetings and presentations following announcements of its deficiencies: the majority of the recommendations presented in the annual and interim results.
The non-executive Directors are available internal auditor reports have now been, or are in the process of being to meet institutional shareholders should there be unresolved matters implemented.
During 2013, the Elster businesses will be included in the they wish to bring to their attention.
The views of key analysts and internal audit visit plan and 37 businesses are planned for review this shareholders generally are fed back to the Board directly by individual year, including 10 audits in relation to the Elster business.
Directors, or via the Companys brokers.
This helps to ensure that all members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major The Board confirms that, from the review of internal controls, it has shareholders.
Corporate information is available on the Companys not determined any significant failings or weaknesses that it considers website, www.
The Board also confirms that it has not been advised of any material weaknesses in the internal control systems that As part of the process to agree the early crystallisation of the 2009 relate to financial reporting.
Incentive Shares and creation of the 2012 Incentive Share Plan during March and April 2012, discussions took place with key WHISTLEBLOWING, ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION institutional investors in order to ensure their views were incorporated POLICIES into the process.
Perry Crosthwaite, in his capacity as Chairman The Company takes very seriously its responsibilities under the Bribery of the Remuneration Committee, led these discussions and acted Act 2010 and has in place appropriate measures to ensure compliance.
independently from the executive Directors.
Following the introduction of updated internal procedures in 2011, each business within the Energy, Lifting and Other Industrial divisions The Board welcomes the attendance of shareholders at the AGM.
The is required to provide an annual conrmation to the Company that it number of votes cast for and against each of the resolutions proposed has fully complied with the Groups anti-bribery and corruption policy.
will be announced shortly after the AGM has concluded, via the Melrose Gift, hospitality and charitable donation registers also continue to be website at www.
maintained throughout the year and form part of the Groups anticorruption procedures: no areas of concern were identied.
Whilst Elster By order of the Board already maintain a comprehensive and robust compliance programme, during 2013 they will also start to report under the Groups existing compliance reporting procedures.
The Groups anti-bribery and corruption policy applies to all Directors, employees whether permanent, xed-term, or temporary, pension trustees, consultants and other business advisers, contractors, trainees, Joff Crawford volunteers, business agents, distributors, joint venture partners, or Company Secretary any other person working for or performing a service on behalf of the 6 March 2013 Company, its subsidiaries and associated companies in which it has a majority interest.
Responsibility for anti-corruption policies and procedures rests with the Board of Directors.
It is tasked with ensuring that adequate internal financial controls and record keeping is in place within the Group in order to minimise the risk of bribery and corruption.
