At the date of this report, the principal governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the London Stock Exchange are contained in the UK Corporate Governance #ODE THE h#ODEv AS ADOPTED BY THE &INANCIAL 2EPORTING CORPORATE GOVERNANCE #OUNCIL THE h&2#v 4HE &2# PUBLISHED THE #ODE INAY 2010, which applies to financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
A new edition of the Code was published in September 2012 and applies to reporting periods beginning on or 1 October 2012.
The FRC has advised that companies reporting on reporting periods beginning before 1 October 2012 should continue to report against the June 2010 edition of the Code, although they are encouraged to consider whether it would be beneficial to adopt some or all of the new provisions in the revised code earlier than formally expected.
The Board of Directors has a strong commitment to high standards of corporate governance and has applied all of the main and supporting principles set out in sections A to E as recommended in the Code for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Where practicable, the Company has also adopted the new provisions in the revised code.
The Directors also seek to comply with guidelines issued by institutional investors and their representative bodies where it is practical to do so.
46 Each of the Committees has formal written terms of The SID also provides a sounding board for the Chairman Compliance with the Code reference, which were reviewed in 2012.
The terms of and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors when The Directors consider that the Company has complied reference for the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination required.
The SID works with the Chairman, other directors with all of the principles set out in sections A to E of Committees are available on request and can be found and or shareholders to resolve significant the Code for the year ended 31 December 2012. on the Groups website.
Their composition and the issues or if there is a dispute between the Chairman The Companys auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, are required manner in which they discharge their responsibilities and Chief Executive.
to review whether the above statement reects the are described in this report.
Companys compliance with the relevant provisions of the The SID also leads meetings with the other Non-Executive Code specified for the review by the Listing Rules of the The Executive Board, a Committee of the Board, meets Directors without the Chairman present in order to evaluate UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reect formally at least four times a year, and is responsible and appraise the performance of the Chairman, at least such compliance.
for assisting the Chief Executive officer in the performance on an annual basis and on such other occasions as are of his duties, including development and implementation deemed appropriate.
of strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures LEADERSHIP and budgets.
These activities are performed at a regional Attendance at meetings level by four Regional Boards for the UK, EMEA, Asia The number of meetings of the Board and Committees and The Board and its operation Pacic and the Americas.
Each Regional Board meets individual attendance by the members of the Committees The Board of Michael Page International plc is the body at least four times a year.
only are shown in the tables overleaf.
responsible for corporate governance, establishing policies and objectives, and the management of the Groups Chairman resources.
The Board comprises the Chairman, who The Chairman, Robin Buchanan, is responsible for the EFFECTIVENESS is deemed to be independent and has no operational leadership and efficient operation of the Board, setting its responsibilities, two Executive Directors and four agenda and ensuring all Directors provide an effective The composition of the Board complies with Code independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring Provision B.
The Board annually reviews the have a broad balance of skills and experience.
the provision of accurate and timely information to the composition of the Board and considers that there is an Board and effective communications with shareholders.
appropriate balance of Executive and Non-Executive The Board meets regularly throughout the year.
It has a It is the Groups policy that the roles of Chairman Directors on the Board.
formal schedule of matters reserved to it and delegates and Chief Executive officer are separate.
The division of specic responsibilities to Committees.
During the responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive Board appointments and diversity Meetings, the Board formally considers how and to whom officer are clearly established, set out in writing and agreed The Board follows formal and transparent procedures matters covered at each meeting should be communicated by the board.
All shortlisted candidates are and actioned beyond the Board.
Decisions concerning interviewed by the Chairman and the Chief Executive officer, matters of a more routine nature are dealt with by Senior Independent Director SID and all candidates in the final shortlist are interviewed by the management below Board level.
The Senior Independent Director, Ruby McGregor-Smith, is available to shareholders when they may have issues or The structure of the Group facilitates the day-to-day Michael Page International plc is an concerns where contact through the normal channels of running of the business and enables efficient and effective organisation founded on the principle of Chairman, Chief Executive officer or Chief Financial officer communication of issues to the Board when required.
The encouraging talented people to realise their has either failed to resolve concerns, or contact is deemed Chairman and Non-Executive Directors also met during inappropriate.
the year without the Executive Directors being present.
full potential at all levels in the business.
Evaluations of all candidates are paramount need to create a talented high-performing board Nomination Committee discussed with all members of the Nomination Committee with a suitable mix of experience and capability, in sector, The Nomination Committee comprises the Non-Executive and recommendations are made to the Board.
geography, nancing, management and governance.
We Directors and is chaired by Robin Buchanan.
It is focus especially on the importance in diversity at the time responsible for making recommendations to the Board on Michael Page International plc is an organisation founded of each new board appointment and in framing instructions new appointments, as well as making recommendations on the principle of encouraging talented people to realise to the search consultants we retain to assist us in such as to the composition of the Board generally, the balance their full potential at all levels in the business and has in appointments.
In each of the two Non-Executive Director between Executive and Non-Executive Directors place a wide range of activities to support the development appointments this year, instructions included explicit appointed to the Board and reviewing any conicts of and promotion of talented individuals, including women.
requests for candidates with broad international experience.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Our management philosophy is to create a culture in the Gender diversity was also stressed.
Committee can be found on our website.
business that recognises and rewards our people for their achievements.
We actively encourage and pursue diversity, Board including diversity in gender, throughout the business.
Attendance at Board Meetings Committee attendance shown for Committee members only 11 Diversity at Board level is as important as diversity at every Meetings attended other level in the business.
In a small Board it is our policy Steve Ingham 11 to seek diversity, including diversity in gender, as part of the Andrew Bracey appointed 23 April 2012 6 Charles-Henri Dumon left the Board on 28 February 2012 2 Stephen Puckett resigned 18 May 2012 5 Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Total Non-Executive Meetings 11 8 7 4 Meetings attended Robin Buchanan 11 8 7 4 Simon Boddie appointed 24 September 2012 3 2 4 - David Lowden appointed 22 August 2012 3 2 4 - Ruby McGregor-Smith 9 7 7 4 Dr Tim Miller 9 7 5 4 Hubert Reid resigned 18 May 2012 6 4 2 4 Reg Sindall resigned 22 August 2012 4 4 2 2 48 During the year, the Nomination Committee oversaw the Due to this philosophy of nurturing our own talent, Performance evaluation search for two new non-executive directors assisted by succession planning is an inherent part of the business In line with the requirements of the UK Corporate The Inzito Partnership.
Detailed role proles were agreed process.
We do not make promotions or move people within Governance Code for an external Board evaluation by the Committee.
Then a shortlist of suitable candidates the business unless there is a clear successor for the vacant every three years, the Board, as part of its commitment was selected to go forward to an interview process.
It is one of the key responsibilities of all levels of to ensuring effectiveness and evaluating its performance, This resulted in the recommendation of the appointment management, and not just the Board, to have a clear plan together with that of its Directors and Committees, has of David Lowden who joined on 22 August 2012 and of development for their direct reports, and for themselves.
engaged the services of an external company to conduct Simon Boddie who joined on 24 September 2012. a Board Evaluation exercise.
Due to the extensive changes Conicts of interest to the Executive and Non-Executive Directors in the year, Re-election of Directors The Company has implemented robust procedures, in line the Board agreed to defer the start of the review until April All Directors are subject to election by the shareholders with the Companies Act 2006, requiring Directors to seek 2013 to allow the Board as a whole and in particular the at the first Annual General Meeting following their appropriate authorisation prior to entering into any outside newer directors time to provide meaningful feedback into appointment.
In accordance with the Code, the Directors business interests.
In all cases where a potential conict is the process.
have resolved that they will all submit themselves for identied, it is Board policy that the Director in question is annual re-election at the AGM.
Accordingly, at the not involved in any discussion of the area or issue giving The review will be conducted by Board and Committee forthcoming AGM to be held on 6 June 2013, rise to the conict.
During the course of the year, the Board meeting observations, and interviews of each of the Simon Boddie and David Lowden will offer themselves reviewed and authorised, in accordance with the directors and key non-Board contributors.
The findings for election, with the remaining Directors offering Companys Articles of Association, a small number of will be presented to the individual directors to give themselves for re-election.
As a result of their annual external directorships and other business interests held by feedback on their performance and also presented to performance evaluation, the Board considers that their individual directors.
However, none were regarded as being the Board as a whole.
Where areas of improvement are individual performances continue to be effective, with of such signicance as to give rise to a conict of interest.
identied, actions will be agreed upon and training will each Director demonstrating commitment to their role.
This report will also be used to The Board is therefore pleased to support their re-election at All Directors are aware of their continuing obligation to measure progress against the improvement areas in the the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
report any new interests or changes in existing interests that following years review.
The scope of the review will cover might amount to a possible conict of interest in directors performance individually and collectively, overall Induction and training programme order that these may be considered by the Board and composition and diversity of the board, and all aspects of On appointment to the Board, each Director discusses with appropriate authorisations given.
the Company Secretary the extent of training required and a tailored induction programme to cover their individual Company Secretary Succession planning requirements is then compiled.
Elements of the programme All Directors have access to the advice and services of One of the basic premises behind the strategic typically consist of meeting senior management, site visits the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that development of the PageGroup business, is that growth is and attending internal conferences.
In addition, information Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are organic.
It is therefore one of the fundamental principles of is provided on the Companys services, Group structure, observed.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors the Company that we train and develop our own people.
Board arrangements, financial information, major to obtain independent professional advice, if necessary, This approach creates opportunities for career progression competitors and major risks.
After an initial induction phase, at the Companys expense.
and helps us attract and retain high calibre individuals.
updates are provided on a periodic basis.
49 Committee, Dr Tim Miller has wide experience in regulatory The objectivity and independence of the external auditor ACCOUNTABILITY and risk issues.
The Committee met eight times in 2012 is safeguarded by: to full its duties and included attendance by the external Responsibilities auditor where required.
The Chairman of the Audit a. obtaining assurances from the external auditor that The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Committee also met with the external auditors during the adequate policies and procedures exist within its rm preparation of the Annual Report.
The Statement of year without the presence of management.
to ensure the rm and its staff are independent of the Directors Responsibilities is shown on page 130.
Group by reason of family, finance, employment, A statement by the auditors about their reporting In 2012, the Audit Committee discharged its investment and business relationships other than in responsibilities is shown in the Independent Auditors responsibilities as set out in the terms of reference, which the normal course of business : Report on page 68. can be found on our website WWW PAGE COM INVESTORS b. enforcing a policy concerning the provision of non-audit Strategy Its principal tasks are to ensure the integrity of the services by the auditor which governs the types of work: A detailed discussion of results, strategy and outlook Companys Financial Reporting process, review the i. from which the external auditor is excluded: is contained within the Business Review of this effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal ii.
for which the external auditor can be engaged Annual Report.
control systems, review the scope of the external audit, without referral to the Audit Committee: and consider issues raised by the external auditor, and review iii.
for which a case-by-case decision is required, Audit Committee includes all engagements over certain fee limits.
The Audit Committee comprises the independent Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Ruby The following areas are considered to be unacceptable Ernst & Young LLP are the Groups McGregor-Smith.
The Committee members have broad for the external auditor to undertake: experience and knowledge of financial reporting.
relevant qualications and experience are shown in their s SELECTION DESIGN OR IMPLEMENTATION OF KEY lNANCIAL biographies on the Board of Directors pages 30 and 31. systems: the half-yearly and annual accounts before they are s MAINTAINING OR PREPARING THE ACCOUNTING BOOKS AND The Board believes that Ruby McGregor-Smith, Simon presented to the Board, focusing in particular on records or the preparation of financial accounts or Boddie and David Lowden have recent and relevant accounting policies and compliance, and areas of other key financial data: financial experience.
The other member of the Audit management judgement and estimates, as well as s PROVISION OF OUTSOURCED lNANCIAL SYSTEMS ensuring the independence of the external auditor and s PROVISION OF OUTSOURCE OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT the provision of additional services to the Company.
functions: It reports to the Board annually on how it has discharged s RECRUITMENT OF SENIOR lNANCE OR OTHER EXECUTIVES its responsibilities.
s SECONDMENT OF SENIOR lNANCE OR OTHER EXECUTIVES The Audit Committee comprises s PROVISION OF INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES Objectivity and independence of external auditor s VALUATION SERVICES OR FAIRNESS OPINIONS AND the independent Non-Executive Ernst & Young LLP is employed to perform work in addition s ANY SERVICES SPECIlCALLY PROHIBITED TO BE PROVIDED Directors and is chaired by Ruby to their statutory duties where it is felt that they are best by a listed companys external auditors under McGregor-Smith.
placed to carry out the engagement as a result of their UK regulations.
All other work is awarded on the basis of competitive tender.
50 The following criteria also need to be met before the s THE ROBUSTNESS AND PERCEPTIVENESS OF THE AUDITORS IN Listing Rules that incorporate a Code of Practice known external auditors are contracted to provide such services: their handling of the key accounting and audit as the UK Corporate Governance Code, which requires judgements: and that Directors review, at least annually, the effectiveness of s THE lRM HAS THE NECESSARY SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE s THE CONTENT OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR S REPORTING ON the Groups system of internal controls.
This requirement to undertake the work: internal control.
stipulates that the review shall cover all material controls s THERE ARE NO POTENTIAL CONmICTS THAT MAY ARISE AS A including operational, compliance and risk management, result of carrying out this activity: Effectiveness of External Audit as well as financial.
Internal Control Guidance for Directors s THE EXTERNAL AUDIT lRM IS SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY S The effectiveness of the external audit process is on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report was normal tendering processes: and dependent on appropriate audit risk identication.
At the published in 1999 updated in 2005 and sets out best s IN ADDITION TO THE NORMAL AUTHORISATION PROCEDURES start of the audit cycle we receive a detailed audit plan practice on internal audit for UK listed companies and and prior to inclusion in a tender, approval has to be from Ernst & Young LLP, identifying their assessment of assists them in applying Section C. 2 of the Code.
given by the Chief Financial officer and, if the fee these key risks.
These risks are tracked through the year exceeds a certain level, the Audit Committee.
whenever we receive reporting from them.
Meetings are held between the Chairman of the Audit The Directors review, at least annually, Committee and the external auditor during the year the effectiveness of the Groups system without management being present to provide additional of internal controls.
opportunity for open dialogue and feedback from the Committee and the auditor.
Matters typically discussed may c. enforcing a policy of reviewing all cases where it is include, amongst other items, the auditors assessment of proposed that a former employee of the external auditor business risks and related management activity, external be employed by the Group in a senior management auditor independence and conrmation that there has been position: and no restriction in scope placed on them by management, the transparency and openness of interactions with d. monitoring the external auditors compliance with management and records made available, and how they applicable UK ethical guidance on the rotation of have exercised their professional scepticism.
In the previous year, with Deloitte LLP having been The Committee has also considered the likelihood of a the group auditors since 1998, the Audit Committee withdrawal of the auditor from the market and noted that recommended to the Board that is was appropriate to put there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice the Group audit out to competitive tender.
Ernst & Young of external auditors.
To assess the effectiveness of the LLP were successful in that process.
Following the above, external auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that Ernst & Young LLP is re-appointed.
s THE ARRANGEMENTS FOR ENSURING THE EXTERNAL AUDITORS independence and objectivity: Internal control s THE EXTERNAL AUDITORS FULlLMENT OF THE AGREED AUDIT PLAN The responsibilities of the Directors in respect of internal and any variations from the plan: control are dened by the Financial Services Authoritys 51 The Board has assessed existing risk management and safeguard Group assets, ensure proper accounting records Audit Committee internal control processes during the year ended 31 are maintained and that the financial information used There is an established Audit Committee whose activities December 2012.
The Group operates in accordance with within the business and for publication is reliable.
Any are previously described: the current Turnbull guidance.
The Board believes it has system of internal control can only provide reasonable, the procedures in place such that the Group has fully but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement Financial and operational controls complied for the financial year ended 31 December 2012 and loss.
Key elements of the system of internal control Individual operations complete an annual controls self and at the date of this report.
are as follows: assessment and certication statement.
Each operational manager, in addition to the finance function for that The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of Group organisation operation, confirms the adequacy of their systems of internal financial and operational controls, which are The Board of Directors meets at least ten times a year, internal control and compliance with Group policies.
designed to meet the Groups particular needs and aim to focusing mainly on strategic issues, and operational and The statement also requires the reporting of any significant financial performance.
There is also a dened policy on control issues, including suspected or reported fraud, matters reserved strictly for the Board.
The Managing that have emerged so that areas of Group concern can be Director of each operating division is accountable for identied and investigated as required: establishing and monitoring internal controls within that division: Risk management Identication of major business risks is carried out at Group level in conjunction with operational management and appropriate steps taken to monitor and mitigate risk: The Group operates in accordance with the current Turnbull guidance.
Public interest disclosure policy whistleblowing The audit committee has reviewed arrangements by which Annual business plan staff of the company may, in confidence, raise concerns The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with about possible improprieties in matters of financial an annual budget approved by the Board: reporting or other matters.
Arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such Quarterly re-forecasting matters and for appropriate follow-up action: and The Group prepares a full-year reforecast on a quarterly basis showing, by individual businesses disciplines, the Internal audit activities results to date and a reforecast against budget for the The internal audit function is an independent, dedicated remaining period up to the end of the year: Internal Audit team, comprising the Head of Internal Audit and a team of Internal Auditors.
Businesses are visited on a Financial reporting risk-based and rotational basis to assess the effectiveness Detailed monthly reports are produced showing of controls in mitigating specic risks.
In addition, risks are comparisons of results against budget, forecast and the regularly reviewed and changes are made to the risk prole prior year, with performance monitoring and explanations where necessary.
All internal audit activities are reported to provided for significant variances.
The Group issues the Audit Committee.
trading updates to shareholders on a quarterly basis: 52 During the year, the Board monitored and reviewed the RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS effectiveness of the internal audit activities.
The Board has applied principle C. 2 of the Code and confirms that there Board contact with shareholders is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Communications with shareholders are given a high managing the significant risks faced by the Group and priority.
The main contact between the Board and that the processes have been in place for the year under shareholders is through the Chief Executive officer and the review and up to the date of approval of the annual report Chief Financial officer.
They undertake two major investor and accounts.
roadshows each year in February March and August September, in which numerous one-to-one meetings with The Remuneration Committee comprises shareholders take place.
The outcome of these meetings and the views of shareholders are relayed back to the the independent Non-Executive Directors Board by the corporate brokers, at the end of each and, since 22 August 2012, is chaired by roadshow.
The Groups corporate brokers also report David Lowden.
monthly to the Board on broking activity during the month and any issues that may have been raised with them.
REMUNERATION Shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General Meeting where they are able to discuss any concerns with Remuneration Committee the Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee comprises the independent Non-Executive Directors and, since 22 August 2012, is When requested by shareholders, individual matters can be chaired by David Lowden, who took over the Chairmanship discussed with the Chairman or if appropriate, the Senior from Reg Sindall.
The Committee reviews the Groups Independent Director.
In addition, the Chairman of the policy on the Chairmans, Executive Directors and senior Remuneration Committee consulted widely on the changes executives remuneration and terms of employment, makes to Executive Director Remuneration and is available to recommendations upon this, along with the specic level discuss remuneration topics with shareholders.
The Group of remuneration to the Board, and also approves the has a website with an investor section www.
com provision of policies for the incentivisation of senior investors that contains Company announcements and employees, including share schemes.
The Committee meets at least three times a year and Annual Report is also attended by the Chief Executive officer, except The Annual Report is designed to present a balanced when his own remuneration is under consideration.
and understandable view of the Groups activities and The Remuneration Report includes information on the The Group has a website with an investor prospects.
The Business Review provides an assessment Directors service contracts.
The terms of reference of the of the Groups affairs and position.
The Annual Report and section www.
com investors that Remuneration Committee can be found on our website.
Interim Report are sent to all shareholders on the Register.
contains Company announcements and The Report of the Remuneration Committee can be found on pages 54 to 67 of this Annual Report.
