Corporate governance Introduction The principles set out in the Corporate Governance Code cover The principal corporate governance guidance that applies fi veareas: leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration to companies listed with the UK Listing Authority during the year and relations with shareholders.
With the exception of remuneration reported on is contained in the Financial Reporting Councils UK which is dealt with separately in the remuneration report on pages 28 Corporate Governance Code the Corporate Governance Code.
to 34 the following section sets out how the board has applied Through its commitment to the highest standards of corporate theseprinciples.
The Corporate Governance Code can be accessed governance, the board endorses and supports the essential elements at www.
of the Corporate Governance Code and, apart from a limited exception as explained below, believes the Group has fully complied The board with the Corporate Governance Code during the year reported on.
The Group is controlled by the board, which is responsible for the Groups system of corporate governance.
As at 30 April 2012, Compliance statement the board comprised six directors: The directors are committed to ensuring that the Company works towards compliance with the main principles of the Corporate Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman Governance Code.
Mike Phillips Chief Financial Offi cer David Maloney Deputy Chairman and Non-executive Senior Throughout the year reported on the Company has been Independent Director in compliance with the main principles of the Corporate Governance Tom Skelton Non-executive Independent director Code, except for the following: Karen Slatford Non-executive Independent director Tom Virden Non-executive Independent director A.
2.1 Chairman and Chief Executive The Corporate Governance Code requires that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive should Paul Pester resigned from the board as a non-executive director not be exercised by the same individual.
Kevin Loosemore formerly on 5January 2012 and Tom Virden was appointed to the board non-executive Chairman was appointed to the role of Executive as a non-executive director on 5 January 2012.
Tom Virden was Chairman on 14 April 2011.
The nomination committee and the subsequently appointed as a member of the audit and remuneration board considered that the combined role is in the interests committees.
Tom Virdens extensive experience in the technology of shareholders in order to utilise the proven leadership qualities sector and of start-up businesses complements the skills and experience and signifi cant experience of Kevin Loosemore through a challenging of the rest of the board.
TomVirden is a dual US and British citizen, period for the Company and to ensure the ongoing commercial living in France, and expands the geographical representation success of the Company.
In order to mitigate any potential concerns of the board.
over the combined role, David Maloney was also appointed as Deputy Chairman on 14 April 2011 and continues to perform his role The role of the non-executive directors is to ensure that independent as Senior Independent Director.
judgment is brought to board deliberations and decisions.
Following Kevin Loosemores appointment as Executive Chairman The non-executive directors possess a wide range of skills and and David Maloneys appointment as Deputy Chairman, the terms experience, relevant to the development of the Company, which of reference for each role have been agreed by the board and can complement those of the executive directors.
be viewed on http: investors.
Kevin Loosemore leads the board and the Company in its relationships Until his appointment as Executive Chairman on 14 April 2011, with all stakeholders and customers.
He is responsible for all aspects KevinLoosemore operated in a non-executive capacity and was of executive management including business strategy and its successful considered by the board to be independent of management and free achievement.
He is also responsible for chairing board and general from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere meetings, facilitating the effective contribution of non-executive with the exercise of his independent judgment.
directors, ensuring effective communication with shareholders and upholding the highest standards of integrity and probity.
David David Maloney, the non-executive Senior Independent Director Maloney chairs the nomination committee and is therefore responsible and Deputy Chairman, Tom Skelton, Karen Slatford and Tom Virden, for succession planning.
He leads on governance issues, including each a non-executive director, are considered by the board to be the annual review of board effectiveness, and acts as an intermediary, independent.
if necessary, between non-executive directors and the Executive Chairman and between the Company and shareholders.
The board In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, all directors also has a clear majority of independent directors, with four out of six are subject to election by the shareholders at the fi first AGM of the directors being fully independent.
Company after their appointment and to re-election by the shareholders on an annual basis at the AGM.
Therefore all directors will retire at the forthcoming AGM.
Non-executive directors are appointed for specifi c terms.
Full terms of their appointment are to be found in the remuneration report.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 22 2012 overview IFC Management and governance 16 Company fi financial statements and notes 70 Business review 02 Consolidated fi financial statements and notes 37 Additional information 80 In the year ending 30 April 2013, the board has scheduled meetings on Any new director receives a comprehensive, formal and tailored a regular basis approximately every one to two months, with additional induction into the Companys operations.
The directors can request meetings when circumstances and business dictate.
In months in which that appropriate training is available as required.
Tom Virden was the board does not meet update calls are scheduled to review appointed to the board during the year and his induction included progress.
All directors receive an agenda and board papers in advance briefi ngs on the Companys business, strategy, constitution and of meetings to help them make an effective contribution at the decision making process, the roles and responsibilities of a director meetings.
The board makes full use of appropriate technology as a and the legislative framework.
Tom Virden also met with the Groups means of updating and informing all its members.
Board papers are senior product and other managers.
circulated electronically to a tablet device, allowing directors to access documentation more easily and securely.
The executive directors As part of its leadership and control of the Company, the board has ensure regular informal contact is maintained with non-executive agreed a list of items that are specifi cally reserved for its consideration.
directors who are invited to accompany the executive directors when These include business strategy, fi nancing arrangements, material visiting the Groups offi ces.
acquisitions and divestments, approval of the annual budget, major capital expenditure projects, risk management, treasury policies and In the year under review, the board met on fourteen occasions, six establishing and monitoring internal controls.
At each meeting, such meetings being scheduled formal board meetings with a further the board reviews progress of the Group towards its objectives eight additional meetings of the board to provide interim updates and monitors fi financial progress against budget.
or consider matters arising between scheduled meetings.
During the year under review the board commissioned leading While the board retains overall responsibility for, and control search company, Russell Reynolds, to conduct a detailed evaluation of the Company, day-to-day management of the business of the board and its committees as required by Corporate is conducted by the executive directors.
Review of the Groups Governance Code provisions B6.1 and B6.2.
This took the form principal business activities is the responsibility of the executive of individual interviews with each of the directors and included committee.
The executive committee comprises the executive directors an assessment of the effectiveness of the boards performance and other senior managers reporting to the executives.
and its compliance with corporate governance principles.
The conclusions of the report were positive including that the Group The board receives papers on key subjects in advance of each board had a strong collegiate board which operated in a culture of openness meeting.
These typically cover: and mutual respect.
Recommendations were made with respect to continuing to refi ne succession planning and developing internal Strategy and budgets: executive talent.
Russell Reynolds presented their fi findings to the board which were reviewed by both the board and its committees Business and fi financial performance: and the resulting recommendations are being implemented.
In addition the Deputy Chairman in his role as chairman of the Product plans and development: nomination committee worked with Russell Reynolds to develop a succession plan for the board for the next three years.
Corporate activities: Attendance at meetings Human resources: and The number of board meetings and committee meetings attended by each director in the year to 30 April 2012 was as follows: Investor relations.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board committee committee committee The board has agreed procedures for directors to follow if they believe ||| ||| ||| Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended they require independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and these procedures allow the directors to take such Kevin Loosemore 14 13 4 4 advice at the Companys expense.
In addition, all directors have direct Mike Phillips 14 14 access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
David Maloney 14 14 5 5 5 5 4 4 1 The Company Secretary is accountable to the board through the Paul Pester 12 7 3 2 Executive Chairman to whom she reports.
It is the responsibility of the Tom Skelton 14 14 5 5 5 5 4 4 Company Secretary to ensure that board procedures are followed and Karen Slatford 14 14 5 5 5 5 2 all rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretarys Tom Virden 2 2 1 1 1 1 responsibilities include facilitating induction and professional development and ensuring the smooth fl ow of information between During period of appointment.
board members, between the board and its committees and between non-executive directors and senior management.
Notes: 1 Paul Pester resigned on 5 January 2012.
2 Tom Virden was appointed on 5 January 2012.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23 Corporate governance continued Directors are normally provided with the agenda and supporting and independence is not compromised by it undertaking inappropriate papers for board and committee meetings in the week prior to the non-audit work.
All signifi cant non-audit work commissioned from meeting.
If unable to attend a meeting a director will provide the external auditor requires audit committee approval.
During the feedback to the Executive Chairman, the chair of the committee year the fees paid to the auditor were $0.8m for audit services and or the Company Secretary and their comments are then $0.3m for non-audit services.
Signifi cant non-audit services were communicated at the meeting.
provided by the auditor in respect of bid defence costs and the Return of Value and the audit committee concluded that it was in the Confl icts of interest interests of the Group to use the auditor for this work as the auditor Following the implementation of the relevant provisions of the was considered to be best placed to provide these services and was Companies Act 2006, the Company has put in place procedures the provider that offered the best value.
Auditor objectivity was to deal with confl icts of interests, which have operated effectively.
safeguarded by the audit committee considering several factors: the The board is aware of the other commitments of its directors standing, experience and tenure of the external audit partner: the and changes to these commitments are reported to the board.
nature and level of services provided by the external auditor: and confi rmation from the external auditor that it has complied with Board committees relevant UK independence standards.
In accordance with best practice, the Company has established audit, nomination and remuneration committees, with written terms An outsourced internal audit function continues to be provided of reference for each that deal with their respective authorities and by KPMG.
The Groups Chief Financial Offi cer provides oversight duties.
The full terms of reference of all the committees are available and co-ordination of internal audit.
In order to ensure independence, from the Company Secretary or can be viewed on the Companys internal audit has a direct reporting line to the audit committee website at http: investors.
The Company is aware that the Executive Chairman is not regarded as independent for the purposes of the Corporate Governance Code.
The role of internal audit is to advise executive management and the board on the extent to which the Groups systems of internal control Audit committee are effective.
The internal audit plan for each year is determined The audit committee is comprised entirely of non-executive directors through a structured process of risk assessment and is approved of the Company.
It is chaired by David Maloney, who the board by the audit committee.
considers has recent and relevant fi financial experience.
Paul Pester resigned from the committee on 5 January 2012 and Tom Virden The nature and scope of the internal audits to be completed during was appointed to the committee on 21 February 2012.
The other the year was reviewed and approved by the audit committee and members are Tom Skelton and Karen Slatford.
the reports of results of completed audits received and responses of executive management were considered.
The plan set out at the The audit committee has met fi five times during the fi financial year beginning of the year was achieved and the outcome of the work and will meet at least four times during the coming fi financial year was in line with expectations.
A schedule of meetings for the coming year has been established.
The audit committees terms of reference include a process for employees of the Company to raise, in confi dence, concerns about The audit committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups annual possible impropriety in matters of fi financial reporting or other matters.
accounts and interim reports prior to submission to the full board for approval.
The committee also monitors the Groups accounting The written terms of reference of the audit committee include, among policies, internal fi financial control systems and fi financial reporting other things, the following responsibilities: procedures.
The audit committee provides a forum through which the Groups external and internal auditors report to the board.
The To report to the board on its proceedings, identifying any matters auditors are invited to attend meetings of the committee on a regular in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is basis and have the opportunity to meet privately with committee needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken: members in the absence of executive management.
The audit committee oversees the relationship with the auditor, including the To monitor the integrity of the fi financial statements of the independence and objectivity of the auditor taking into account UK Company and ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly professional and regulatory requirements and the relationship with protected in relation to fi financial reporting and internal control: the audit fi rm as a whole and the consideration of audit fees and fees for non-audit work.
In addition, the audit committee has To keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal developed a policy designed to ensure that the auditors objectivity controls and risk management systems: Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 24 2012 overview IFC Management and governance 16 Company fi financial statements and notes 70 Business review 02 Consolidated fi financial statements and notes 37 Additional information 80 To review the Companys procedures for preventing and detecting Nomination committee fraud, the Companys systems and controls for the prevention The nomination committee is comprised of David Maloney of bribery, the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys anti non-executive Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman money laundering systems and the Companys arrangements for its who chairs the committee, Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman employees to raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in fi financial and Tom Skelton independent non-executive director.
The committee reporting or other matters: has met four times during the fi financial year.
The nomination committee will meet at least twice during the coming fi financial year.
To monitor and review the need for, and the effectiveness of, the Companys internal audit function in the context of the Companys The nomination committee is responsible to the full board overall risk management system: and for proposing candidates to the board, having regard to the balance and structure of the board.
The nomination committee uses consultants To oversee the relationship with the Companys auditors, ensuring to identify suitable candidates where a position is identifi ed.
the independence and objectivity of the auditor, considering audit fees and fees for non-audit work and making recommendations The terms of reference of the nomination committee include, among to the board in relation to the appointment, reappointment and other matters, the following responsibilities: removal of the Companys external auditor.
To review the structure, size and composition including the skills, In addition, during the year, the committee: knowledge, experience and diversity required of the board and make recommendations to the board with regard to any changes: Reviewed the Companys plans for business continuity and IT Disaster recovery testing: To identify and nominate, for the approval of the board, candidates to fi ll board vacancies as and when they arise: Reviewed and agreed an updated Risk Register: To give full consideration to succession planning for directors Reviewed and approved plans for investment in fi finance systems: and other senior executives: Reviewed and recommended to the board the approval of a revised To keep under review the leadership needs of the Group, both Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and Ethics: executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the Group to compete effectively in the marketplace: and Reviewed and approved management recommendations for improvements in administrative processes relating to statutory To review annually the time required from non-executives, evaluating compliance in overseas territories: whether they are spending enough time to fulfi l theirduties.
Reviewed and recommended to the board the approval During the year the nomination committee was responsible for of the Group reorganisation and Return of Value proposal: the search and selection process for a new non-executive director.
This was led by the Deputy Chairman and the committee appointed Considered whether the Group should issue a tender for Russell Reynolds to assist.
The nomination committee discussed the provision of external audit services as the lead audit partner and agreed a detailed specifi cation which was provided to Russell was due to retire by rotation.
Having decided not to issue a tender, Reynolds.
This took account of the existing directors skill sets and agreed the appointment of a new lead audit partner from experience as well as the overall diversity of the board.
Following  LLP for the Group to take immediate effect: an initial search and preliminary interviews by the chairs of both the nomination and remuneration committees, a shortlist was Reviewed the external auditors performance through an evaluation recommended to the nomination committee and subsequently the by both the directors and the Companys fi financial management board.
The process culminated in the appointment of Tom Virden as a result of which the board is recommending that shareholders as a new independent non-executive director with effect from approve the reappointment of  LLP 5 January 2012.
In addition the nomination committee discussed as external auditor for the fi financial year ending 30 April 2013 at the and agreed a board succession plan.
 LLP have been the external auditor to the Group since the Companys The nomination committee also discussed and reviewed the succession initial public offering in 2005.
There are no contractual restrictions plans and individual plans for both the executive committee and the on the Company on the choice of external auditor: and top talent critical employees within the Group.
Reviewed the management of corporate, strategic and fraud risks.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25 Corporate governance continued Remuneration committee The requirement is set out in the audit committees terms of reference Details of the remuneration committee are described in the to report on a regular basis to the board on the Groups internal remuneration report on pages 28 to 34. fi financial control procedures and to make recommendations to the board in this area.
Accountability and audit The board is responsible for the preparation of fi financial statements The external auditor provides a supplementary, independent that present a balanced assessment of the Groups fi financial position and autonomous perspective on those areas of the internal control and prospects.
This responsibility is administered primarily by the system which they assess in the course of their work.
Their fi findings audit committee.
are regularly reported to both the audit committee and the board.
Risk management To ensure auditor objectivity and independence there is a stringent The board recognises the need to understand and control the variety process in place to approve non-audit work.
of risks to which the Group is exposed.
During the year, in order to address this on behalf of the board, the audit committee oversaw The key elements of the control system are: the executive managements risk management activities.
The executive management took responsibility for regular evaluation of generic and The Group operates a structured, objectives-driven approach specifi c risks within the business and the implementation of mitigation to fulfi l its core purpose and goals in respect of sustained plans to address them.
profi tability and growth: Risks are assessed with reference to the achievement of the Groups Systems and procedures are in place for all major transaction types business objectives and according to current market and economic with appropriate authorisation controls: issues.
The continuous monitoring of strategic and operational risks is the responsibility of the board and executive management All contracts are reviewed.
The level of review depends on the respectively.
The risk process has been in place for the year under size and complexity of the contracts and associated risks.
There review and is up to date at the time of this report.
are formal limits above which the review level is escalated: The audit committee considers any signifi cant control matters raised Reconciliations are performed on a timely basis for all major in reports from management and by the internal and external accounts: and auditors.
It then reports its fi findings to the board.
Where weaknesses are identifi ed, the audit committee requires appropriate action to be Research and development and capital expenditure programmes taken by management and may request internal audit to perform are subject to formal review and monitoring procedures.
a specifi c review into these areas if required.
Financial reporting Internal controls In addition to the general internal controls and risk management The board is ultimately responsible for establishing and monitoring processes described above, the Group also has specifi c internal internal control systems throughout the Group and reviewing their controls and risk management systems to govern the fi financial effectiveness.
It recognises that rigorous systems of internal control reporting process: are critical to the Groups achievement of its business objectives, that those systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk There are Group policies covering what is reported monthly and that they can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance to the board and the executive committee.
The Groups fi financial against material misstatement or loss.
reporting system has been guided by the requirement to ensure consistency and visibility of management information to enable There is an ongoing internal process for identifying, evaluating and the board and the executive committee to review the Groups managing the signifi cant risks faced by the Company in association worldwide operations effectively: with the work performed by the outsourced internal audit function.
This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date Cash fl ows are produced twice monthly by all operations.
These of approval of the report and accounts and it is regularly reviewed by are reviewed by the Group treasury function to ensure effective the board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
cash management by the Group and to enable its bank funding to be repaid as soon as possible: As part of the process that the Company has in place to review the effectiveness of the internal control system, there are procedures Management representations covering compliance with Group designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in policies and the accuracy of fi financial information are collected the case of those categorised by the board as signifi cant, procedures on a quarterly basis: and exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy any such failings.
All the major trading entities completed a self assessment on the effectiveness of their internal control environment.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 26 2012 overview IFC Management and governance 16 Company fi financial statements and notes 70 Business review 02 Consolidated fi financial statements and notes 37 Additional information 80 Consolidation reporting Shareholder relations The consolidation process entails the combining and adjusting The Company values the views of shareholders and recognises their of fi financial information from the individual fi financial statements interests in the Groups strategy and performance.
of Micro Focus International plc and its subsidiary undertakings to prepare consolidated fi financial statements that present fi financial The Company reports formally to shareholders four times a year, information for the Group as a single economic entity.
Note I, around June preliminary announcement of annual results and Group accounting policies, sets out the basis of preparation December interim statement and the Company also publishes interim and consolidation, including the elimination of inter-company management statements in or around August and February each year.
transactions, balances and unrealised gains between The annual report is expected to be mailed to shareholders at least Groupcompanies: 20business days before the AGM.
Separate announcements of all material events are made as necessary.
Regular communications are Financial information from subsidiaries is always reviewed maintained with institutional shareholders and presentations are given for accuracy by internal review and externally audited where to shareholders when the half year and full year fi financial results are required: and announced and at other times.
In addition to the Executive Chairman and Chief Financial Offi cer, who have regular contact with investors, The consolidated fi financial statements are completed in accordance David Maloney the Senior Independent non-executive Director and with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards, Deputy Chairman is available to meet with shareholders as and when IFRIC interpretations, and the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 required.
The whole board is kept up to date at its regular meetings of the IAS Regulation.
with the views of shareholders and analysts.
External analysts reports are also circulated to directors.
Human resources The Group endeavours to appoint employees with appropriate skills, The Companys website www.
com provides an overview knowledge and experience for the roles they undertake.
of the business including its strategy, products and objectives.
The Group has a range of policies which are aimed at retaining and All Group announcements are available on the Companys website providing incentives for key staff.
Objectives are set for departments and new announcements are published without delay.
The terms and employees that are derived from the Groups business objectives of reference of each of the boards three committees and other and performance is formally measured against these objectives twice important corporate governance documents are available on the each year.
The Group has a clear and well-understood organisational website and from the Company Secretary.
Additionally, the Executive structure and each employee knows his or her line of accountability.
Chairman, Chief Financial Offi cer and Head of Investor Relations provide focal points for shareholders enquiries and dialogue Announcements throughout the year.
All major announcements are approved by the executive directors and circulated to the board for approval prior to issue.
AGM The Companys AGM, which will be held on 26 September 2012 The Group also has internal and external checks to guard against at 1.15pm UK time, will provide an opportunity for the board to unauthorised release of information.
meet with all shareholders and the participation of shareholders is encouraged.
At the meeting, in addition to the statutory business, Budgetary process the board will be available for questions from shareholders.
A comprehensive budgeting system allows managers to submit detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended by executive In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code directors prior to submission to the board for approval.
recommendations, the Company will count all proxy votes and will indicate the level of proxies lodged, the number of proxy votes for Insurance and against each such resolution and the number of votes withheld.
The Group keeps under review its portfolio of insurance policies A resolution will be proposed for each substantive issue and the chairs with its insurance brokers to ensure that the policies are appropriate of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees will attend to the Groups activities and exposure.
Information on share capital and other matters The information about share capital required to be included in this statement can be found on page 20 of the directors report and in note23 to the fi financial statements.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27
