2.1 Division of responsibilities As noted The information required by Disclosure and Corporate governance statement on page 29, whilst the search for a new Chief Transparency Rule DTR 7.1 is set out in the Executive was undertaken the Board did not Audit Committee report on pages 32 to 33.
The Board is responsible for ensuring compliance with the comply with the requirement of the Code for The information required by DTR 7.2 is set out 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which is issued by the Financial Reporting Council and which the Chairman and Chief Executive roles to be in this corporate governance statement, other is available at www.
This includes reviewing assumed by different individuals.
Bob Ivell has than that required under DTR 7.2.
6 which is internal controls, ensuring that there is an appropriate returned to his role as Non-Executive Chairman set out in the Directors report on pages 24 balance of skills and experience represented on the Board and the Board is now compliant with A.
2.1 of to 26. and maintaining relations with shareholders.
For our latest financial information go to: Board composition www.
4.1 Senior Independent Director and A table listing all changes to the Board of A.
6.3 Chairmans performance Directors during the year is on page 29. appraisal During the year, there were no On 8 October 2012, Alistair Darby was Dear shareholder independent Non-Executive Directors on the appointed as Chief Executive.
As a result, the role of It gives me great pleasure to take this Senior Independent Director remained vacant Board structure opportunity to update you on our and the Company did not comply with A.
4.1 of The Board operates as set out below.
progress in corporate governance over the Code.
In light of the fact that the Company the past year.
We are not yet as compliant had no Senior Independent Director, an annual The Board as we would wish, but as you know we appraisal of the Chairmans performance was The Board is responsible to shareholders for the have made progress during the year not conducted.
The Board is committed to strategic direction, development and control of with the appointment of a new Chief seeking independent Non-Executive Directors the Group.
It approves strategic plans and Executive and we continue the search for appointment and, once such appointments annual capital and revenue budgets.
It reviews for appropriately qualified independent have been made, the Board intends to appoint significant investment proposals and the Non-Executive Directors in order to a Senior Independent Director and conduct performance of past investments and maintains achieve a more balanced Board.
We annual reviews of the Chairmans performance an overview and control of the Groups will continue to update the market as required by the Code.
It monitors with our progress in this area.
the Groups overall system of internal controls, B.
1.2 Composition of the Board governance and compliance and ensures that Yours sincerely The fact that there were no independent the necessary financial and human resources are Non-Executive Directors on the Board during in place for the Company to meet its objectives.
Bob Ivell the year meant that the Board was unable to Chairman comply fully with the provisions of the Code The Executive Directors may be permitted to relating to board composition and, in particular, accept one external Non-Executive Director The Board recognises the importance of good the requirement for at least half of the Board to appointment with the Boards prior approval corporate governance in creating a sustainable, be independent.
and as long as this is not likely to lead to conflicts successful and profitable business and details of interest.
are set out in this statement of the Companys B.
2.1, C. 3.1, D. 2.1 and D. 2.2 Constitution corporate governance procedures and of Committees The fact that there were The Company Secretarys responsibilities application of the principles of the Code.
no independent Non-Executive Directors include ensuring good information flows to the on the Board during the year meant that the Board and between senior management and the Explanation for non-compliance with Nomination Committee, Audit Committee and Non-Executive Directors.
The appointment and parts of the Code Remuneration Committee were not constituted removal of the Company Secretary is a matter During the year, the Board was not fully in accordance with, and could not meet, reserved for the Board.
The Company Secretary constituted in compliance with the Code, conduct business or undertake the actions is responsible through the Chairman, for which impacted governance in the form of provided for in, the Code during FY 2012. advising the Board on all corporate governance Board and Committee appointments and All committee matters were handled by the matters and for assisting the Directors with their membership and the frequency of Committee full Board.
It meant that during the year, as corporate governance and business issues described more fully below, all Committee B.
6.2 Evaluation As set out on page 31, updates, as well as the use of operational site functions were undertaken by the full Board.
an internal Board evaluation was carried out visits and the provision of external courses in respect of FY 2012. where required.
The Company Secretary As a result, the Company did not comply with facilitated a comprehensive induction for the the following provisions of the Code during As previously announced and as noted newly appointed Directors, tailored to individual the year ended 29 September 2012: above, it is the Boards intention to appoint requirements and including guidance on independent Non-Executive Directors to requirements of, and Directors duties in A.
1.1 Matters reserved for the Board the Board.
Notwithstanding the Code nonconnection with, the Code and the Companies While the Board understands which matters compliance in relation to the composition of Act 2006 as well as other relevant legislation.
are reserved as matters for the Board, there is the Board, the Board believes all other aspects currently no formal schedule setting out these of the Companys corporate governance are matters.
The Company intends to put a formal in compliance with the Code, as set out in schedule in place during FY 2013. this report.
28 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Attendance levels at Board meetings Chairman Board Bob Ivell was Interim Chairman from 14 July Current Directors who served during the year 2011 to 26 October 2011.
He was appointed Bob Ivell 10 10 Executive Chairman on 26 October 2011 1 Doug Evans 10 10 following the departure of Jeremy Blood and 2 Eddie Irwin 6 6 reverted to the role of Non-Executive Chairman Tim Jones 10 10 on 12 November 2012 following the completion 3 Douglas McMahon 9 10 of an induction period by Alistair Darby who Ron Robson 10 10 was appointed Chief Executive on 8 October 2012.
The Chairman ensures that appropriate Former Directors who served during the year communication is maintained with shareholders.
Jeremy Blood 1 1 He has responsibility for running the Board and for ensuring that all Directors are fully informed 1 Appointed to the Board on 26 October 2011. of matters relevant to their roles.
2 Appointed to the Board on 21 March 2012.
3 Douglas McMahon was unable to attend the Board meeting convened at short notice.
Chief Executive Jeremy Blood was the Interim Chief Executive During FY 2012 there were nine scheduled Where a Director was unable to attend a until his resignation on 26 October 2011.
Bob Board meetings and one further Board meeting meeting, they were provided with all the papers Ivell assumed the duties of the Chief Executive which was called at short notice.
The table and information relating to that meeting and from that date until the appointment of Alistair above shows attendance levels at the Board were able to discuss issues arising direct with Darby on 8 October 2012, with a formal meetings held during the year: the numbers the Chairman.
There are 10 Board meetings handover of responsibilities taking place on in brackets confirm how many meetings each currently planned for FY 2013.
12 November 2012 following completion of Director was eligible to attend during the an induction period by Mr Darby.
No committee meetings were held and Executive has responsibility for implementing consequently no Committee attendance data the strategy agreed by the Board and for the is included in this Annual report.
executive management of the Group.
Senior Independent Director Directors There has been no Senior Independent Director The following were Directors of the Company during the year ended 29 September 2012: since 11 February 2011.
Date Date of Non-Executive Directors appointed change of role The Company has experienced Non-Executive Current Directors who served during the year Directors on its Board.
Bob Ivell was considered 1 Bob Ivell Independent Non-Executive Director 09 05 11 14 07 11 to be independent upon his appointment on 1 Interim Chairman 14 07 11 26 10 11 9 May 2011, in that he was free from any 2 Executive Chairman 26 10 11 business or other relationship which could Doug Evans Director 26 10 11 materially influence his judgement and he 3 Eddie Irwin Non-Executive Director 21 03 12 represented a strong source of advice and Tim Jones Finance Director 18 10 10 independent challenge.
On his appointment 4 Douglas McMahon Non-Executive Director 15 10 10 as Interim Chairman on 14 July 2011 and 4 Ron Robson Non-Executive Director 22 01 10 subsequently as Executive Chairman on Deputy Chairman 14 07 11 26 October 2011, as set out in the Code, the independence test was no longer appropriate Date Date to apply to his position.
appointed ceased Former Directors who served during the year Ron Robson and Douglas McMahon were Jeremy Blood Interim Chief Executive 15 03 11 26 10 11 appointed as representatives of the Companys largest shareholder, Piedmont Inc. and are 1 Independent while in the role specified.
2 Subsequently appointed as Non-Executive Chairman on 12 November 2012. therefore not regarded as independent in 3 Nominated shareholder representative of Elpida Limited.
4 Nominated shareholder representative of Piedmont Inc. Eddie Irwin was appointed as a representative Details of the Executive Directors service The provisions in the Articles concerning of the Companys second largest shareholder, contracts are set out on page 37 and on Directors re-election are set out on page 24 Elpida Limited, and is therefore not regarded the Companys website.
The Chairman and of the Directors report.
All the Companys as independent in accordance with the Code.
the Non-Executive Directors have letters of Directors will stand for re-election at the 2013 appointment which are available for inspection AGM in accordance with provision B.
7.1 of There are currently no independent Nonat the registered office of the Company during the Code and their biographical details as at Executive Directors on the Board.
normal business hours and at the place of 26 November 2012 are set out on pages 22 and the Annual General Meeting from at least 23, including their main commitments outside 15 minutes before and until the end of the Company.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 29 Corporate governance statement continued Other than their fees which are disclosed During the year, the Company did not comply Independent advice on page 38, the Non-Executive Directors with provision B.
2.1 of the Code in respect Members of the Board may take independent received no remuneration from the Company of a Nomination Committee consisting of a professional advice in the furtherance of their during the year.
When Non-Executive Directors majority of independent Non-Executive duties and they have access to the advice and are considered for appointment, the Board will Directors.
As the Nomination Committee was services of the Company Secretary & General take into account their other responsibilities in not fully constituted, no meetings were held Counsel, the Companys legal advisers and assessing whether they can commit sufficient and its role was taken on by the full Board, so external auditor.
time to their prospective directorship.
that there was at all times a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of Code of Ethics All Directors are briefed by the use of new Directors to the Board.
Directors did not The Company has implemented business comprehensive papers circulated in advance attend the relevant meetings where their new conduct guidelines describing the standards of Board meetings and by presentations at the roles were being discussed.
of behaviour expected from those working for meetings in addition to receiving minutes of the Company, via a Code of Ethics the Ethics previous meetings.
Their understanding of The Board considered Bob Ivells appointment Code.
Its aim is to promote honest and ethical the Groups business is enhanced by business as Executive Chairman and subsequently conduct throughout our business, and it applies specific presentations and operational visits Non-Executive Chairman, taking into account to all corporate employees.
The Ethics Code to the Groups businesses.
Separate strategy his other external commitments none of requires: meetings and meetings with senior executives which were regarded as significant.
The Board are also held throughout the year.
The training also considered the appointment of Alistair compliance with all applicable rules and needs of Directors are formally considered Darby as Chief Executive.
Where a Director was regulations that apply to the Company on an annual basis and are also monitored unable to attend a meeting he was provided and its officers: throughout the year.
with all the papers and information relating to the ethical handling of actual or apparent that meeting and was able to discuss issues conflicts of interest between internal and Committees arising direct with the Chairman and the external, personal and professional Each Board Committee has written terms of Company Secretary.
relationships: and reference approved by the Board, which are that any hospitality from suppliers must be available on the Companys website.
General Purposes Committee approved, with a presumption against its The General Purposes Committee comprises acceptance.
Throughout the financial year 2012 the any two Executive Directors or any one business which would normally be considered Executive Director together with a senior officer The Company takes a zero tolerance approach by committees was considered by the Board from an agreed and restricted list of senior to bribery and has developed an extensive as a whole.
It is always chaired by a Director.
The Ethics Code requires It attends to business of a routine nature and employees to comply with the Bribery Policy.
Audit Committee to the administration of matters, the principles Details of the Audit Committee are included of which have been agreed previously by the The Company also offers an independently in the Audit Committee report on pages 32 Board or an appropriate committee.
administered, confidential, whistleblowing and 33 and are incorporated by reference into hotline for any employee wishing to report any this Statement.
Executive Committee concern that they feel is inappropriate to raise The Executive Committee, which is chaired with their line manager.
All whistleblowing Remuneration Committee by the Chief Executive previously by the allegations are reported to and considered Details of the Remuneration Committee Chairman, consists of the Executive Directors by the Executive Committee and Board.
are included in the Report on Directors and certain other senior executives, namely remuneration on pages 34 to 40 and are Robin Young Operations Director, Gary John The Board takes regular account of social, incorporated by reference into this Statement.
Property Director, Susan Martindale HR environmental and ethical matters concerning Director and Simon Cope Marketing Director.
the Company through regular reports to the Nomination Committee Board and presentations to the Board at its The Nomination Committee is normally The Executive Committee meets at least every strategy meetings.
The Company Secretary is responsible for nominating, for the approval four weeks and has day-to-day responsibility for responsible for ensuring that Directors are made of the Board, candidates for appointment to the running of the Groups business.
It develops aware of and receive training in respect of such the Board.
It is also responsible for succession the Groups strategy and annual revenue and matters.
The Board is also responsible for the planning and reviewing the output of the Board capital budgets for Board approval.
It reviews Companys internal risk management system, for effectiveness review.
A detailed description of and recommends to the Board any significant which more details can be found in the Risks and the duties of the Nomination Committee is set investment proposals.
uncertainties section of this report, and below.
out within its terms of reference which can be viewed at www.
com This Committee monitors the financial and Internal control and risk management operational performance of the Group and The Board has overall responsibility for the allocates resources within the budgets agreed Groups system of internal control and risk by the Board.
It considers employment issues, management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
ensures the Group has an appropriate pool In order to discharge that responsibility, the of talent and develops senior management Board has established the procedures necessary manpower planning and succession plans.
to apply the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code for the year under review and to the date of approval of the Annual report.
Such procedures are regularly reviewed by the Board.
30 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The key features of the Groups internal control The Group risks identified by the processes Shareholder relations and risk management systems include: that are managed by the Risk Committee are The Board recognises that it is accountable to described in Risks and uncertainties on pages shareholders for the performance and activities An overall governance framework including: 18 to 20. of the Company.
The Company formally updates the market on its financial performance i. clearly defined delegation of authority Examination of business processes on a risk at least five times a year, at the half year and full and reporting lines: basis including reports from the Internal year results in May and November respectively, ii.
a comprehensive set of policies and Audit function, known as Group Assurance, the interim management statements in January procedures that employees are required which reports directly to the Board.
and July and a pre-close trading update in to follow: and September.
The content of these updates iii.
the Groups Code of Ethics, in respect of The Group also has in place systems, including is posted and webcast on the Companys which an annual confirmation of policies and procedures, for exercising control website, together with general information compliance is obtained from all corporate and managing risk in respect of financial about the Company so as to be available to employees.
reporting and the preparation of consolidated all shareholders.
The Company has a regular accounts.
These systems, policies and programme of meetings with its larger Processes, including monitoring by the procedures: shareholders which provides an opportunity Board, in respect of: to discuss, on the back of publicly available govern the maintenance of accounting information, the progress of the business.
i. financial performance within a records that, in reasonable detail, On a more informal basis, the Chairman and comprehensive financial planning, accurately and fairly reflect transactions: the Finance Director regularly report to the accounting and reporting framework: require reported information to be reviewed Board the views of larger shareholders about ii.
strategic plan achievement: and reconciled, with monitoring by the the Company, and the other Non-Executive iii.
capital investment and asset management Board: and Directors are available to meet shareholders performance, with detailed appraisal, provide reasonable assurance that on request and are offered the opportunity authorisation and post-investment transactions are recorded as necessary to attend meetings with larger shareholders.
reviews: and to permit the preparation of financial iv.
consumer insight data and actions to statements in accordance with International The AGM provides a useful interface evolve brands and formats to ensure Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or UK with shareholders, many of whom are also that they continue to be appealing Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, customers.
All proxy votes received in respect and relevant.
of each resolution at the AGM are counted and the balance for and against, and any votes The Risk Committee, a sub-committee In accordance with the Code, during the year withheld, are indicated.
of the Executive Committee, which assists the Board completed its annual review of the the Board and Executive Committee in effectiveness of the Groups risk management Board effectiveness evaluation managing the processes for identifying, and internal control systems, including financial, An evaluation was conducted by the Company evaluating, monitoring and mitigating risks.
The Secretary on behalf of the Board in respect of The Risk Committee, which met three times system of internal control is designed to FY 2012, involving the use of questionnaires during FY 2012, is chaired by the Company manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure and discussion.
The evaluation covered three Secretary & General Counsel and comprises to achieve business objectives and, as such, it areas, first the Chairman, secondly the Board Executive Committee members and other can only provide reasonable and not absolute as a whole and thirdly audit-related activities.
members of senior management from a assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Its primary In that context, in the opinion of the Board, the Going concern responsibilities are to: review did not indicate that the system was The Directors statement as to going concern ineffective or unsatisfactory and to the extent can be found on page 26. i. advise the Executive Committee on the that weaknesses in internal controls were Companys overall risk appetite and identified, the Board confirms that necessary strategy, taking account of the current remedial action plans are in place.
The Board is and prospective operating, legal, not aware of any change to this status up to the macroeconomic and financial approval of this Annual report.
advise the Executive Committee on the With regard to insurance against risk, it is not current and emerging risk exposures practicable to insure against every risk to the of the Company in the context of the fullest extent.
The Group regularly reviews both overall risk appetite and strategy: the type and amount of external insurance iii.
promote the management of risk that it buys with guidance from an external throughout the organisation: independent body, bearing in mind the iv.
review and monitor the Companys availability of such cover, its cost and the capability and processes to identify likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
and manage risks: v. consider the identified key risks faced by the Company and new and emerging risks and consider the adequacy of mitigation plans in respect of such risks: and vi.
where mitigation plans are inadequate, recommend improvement actions.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 31
