MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 &RUSRUDWH RYHUQDQFH 6WDWHPHQW The Directors submit their report together with the audited consolidated financial statements of the MITIE group of companies for the year ended 31 March 2012.
The Directors Report includes the Chairmans Statement, the Business Review, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Remuneration Report, the Directors Responsibility Statement, and those documents that are referred to within the Directors Report and which are available at www.
The Company is required to set out a fair review of the business of the group, including an analysis of the development and performance of the group during the reporting period, the position of the group at the end of the reporting period and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group.
This review is set out in the Business Review on pages 8 to 47 and the Chairmans Statement on pages 6 and 7.
The Directors Report has been prepared, and is published, in accordance with, and in reliance upon, applicable English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in relation to that report are subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Principal group activities MITIE Group PLC is the holding company of the group.
The principal activity of the Company is to provide management services to the group.
The groups activities are focused on the provision of strategic outsourcing and energy services in support of the buildings, facilities and infrastructure of its clients.
Further details of the subsidiary undertakings of the Company principally affecting the profits or net assets of the group in the reporting period are listed in Note 39 to the financial statements.
The group operates a registered branch office in the Isle of Man.
Governance overview The Corporate Governance Statement, together with the Directors Remuneration Report, provides details of key aspects of MITIEs corporate governance environment and the Board has confirmed that the group has complied with all the relevant provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code throughout the year.
Our achievements during 2012 are underpinned by a strong culture of governance.
In our Corporate Governance Statement we explain how the main principles of good governance are applied and the principal changes we have made to our systems of assurance, risk management and control during the last financial year.
The Board recognises that the manner in which the group is governed is critical to its long term success, for which it is accountable to shareholders.
During 2012, the Board, with the help of its committees, has continued to ensure that balanced and sufficient time is spent reviewing and discussing strategy, risk, performance, investor engagement and key matters of governance.
This is facilitated by focused planning to ensure that the right information is provided to support the decision making of the Board.
Key areas of governance that have been reviewed during the year include: Board composition the Nomination Committee has reviewed the composition of the Board and its Committees and the refreshing of the Board to ensure the rights skills and experience are represented to support the growth of the group.
The Board continues to operate a formal Board evaluation and is mindful of the requirement under the Code to carry out an externally facilitated Board evaluation every three years.
All Directors with the exception of Ian Stewart will be standing for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting AGM.
Board diversity MITIE has welcomed the focus on board diversity and the Board continues to believe the issue of diversity should be tackled in a manner that considers all areas of the diversity and inclusion agenda of which gender forms a part.
External audit tender the Board took a decision to tender the provision of external audit services to the group and carried out a rigorous review process which involved presentations and responses from four potential providers of audit services.
Risk and business assurance following a review of MITIEs risk management systems and internal audit processes, we have introduced an Enterprise Risk Management system to enhance the way in which risk is managed, assessed and measured throughout the group.
Decision making the Board has completed its review of delegated authorities to ensure that they continue to be adequate, appropriate and sufficient to support the business in the context of the growth of the organisation and its changing jurisdictional presence.
49 Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 'LUHFWRUV UHSRUW %RDUG VWUXFWXUH DQG OHDGHUVKLS The role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company and accordingly reviews and agrees the strategy for the group proposed by the Executive Directors on an annual basis.
In setting the strategy, the Board takes account of key matters such as market trends, competitive environment, private public sector approach, international aspects, people and talent and the MITIE Model, ensuring at all times that sufficient consideration is given to risk and internal controls.
Matters that are exclusively dealt with by the Board include: setting group objectives and strategies, approving business plans and budgets and monitoring performance against these, approving material acquisitions, disposals and business start-ups, including any material transactions outside of the normal course of business, approving the groups Half-yearly and Annual Report and Accounts, appointing and removing the Chairman, Directors and Company Secretary, management of the groups risk profile and monitoring the groups corporate governance arrangements.
Decisions and approvals are managed in accordance with the groups delegated authorities and matters are also set out in a schedule of matters reserved for the Board which is available at www.
Board composition The membership of the Board as at 31 March 2012 and biographical details of the Directors including details of committee chairmanships and other positions held are given on page 48.
To comply with relevant provision of the Code, all Directors, with the exception of Ian Stewart, will submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM and details are provided in the Notice of AGM which is available at www.
After serving with MITIE for 25 years, of which 22 have been on the PLC Board, Ian Stewart resigned as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 21 May 2012.
During the year, Non-Executive Director independence was considered by the Board.
The Board determined that all Non-Executive Directors as at 31 March 2012, with the exception of the Deputy Chairman Ian Stewart, were independent in mind and judgement, and free from any material relationship that could interfere with their ability to discharge their duties effectively.
The Board is comprised of four independent Non-Executive Directors: a Non-Executive Director deemed nonindependent as a result of his prior role as Chief Executive of the group, the Non-Executive Chairman and three Executive Directors.
The Board has five formally constituted committees: the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Investment Committee and the Results Committee for which the duties and responsibilities of each are set out in the terms of reference available on the Investor section of MITIEs website: at www.
The work of the Committees is explained on pages 51 and 52.
The division of responsibilities and leadership There is a clear division of responsibility between the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive as formally set out in the terms of reference for each of these roles.
The Chairman is a Non-Executive Director and is responsible for the effective running and leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness.
He liaises with the Company Secretary on the annual Board plan and agrees and sets the Board agendas.
Key matters covered at each Board meeting include: strategy, enterprise risk management, financial and management reporting, investor relations and corporate governance, with updates received from each of the Committee Chairmen.
He ensures that sufficient time is allocated to promote healthy discussion and open debate, supported by the right level and quality of information to assist the Board in reaching its decisions.
The Chairman encourages openness and fluid communication between Executive and Non-Executive Directors, a culture which has been facilitated by meetings between the Chairman and individual Directors.
The Chairman ensures that the NonExecutive Directors contribute effectively and that the Executive and Non-Executive Directors are aware of the views of major shareholders.
He is also responsible for ensuring that the Board addresses major challenges faced by MITIE and for the effective performance of the Board and its committees.
The Chairman is available to consult with shareholders throughout the year and will be available at the AGM.
The Chief Executive is responsible for all aspects of the operation and management of the group and its business within the authorities delegated by the Board.
She is responsible for developing and effectively implementing strategy following approval of the strategic and financial plan by the Board.
The Chief Executives remit includes proposing investment into new business and geographical areas and ensuring at all times that the groups risk profile is appropriately considered.
She ensures the timely and accurate disclosure of information to the Board and to shareholders.
She leads the Executive Directors and senior management team in the day-to-day running of the groups business under clear delegation of authority from the Board.
The Chief Executive maintains regular dialogue with the Chairman on all important Company matters and together they provide coherent leadership of the group.
50 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors are responsible for exercising their independent skill and judgement.
In reviewing the proposals for the strategic direction of the group, the Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and probe the Executive Directors, offering a breadth of knowledge, experience and individual skills, and are responsible for contributing to the formulation and development of strategy.
The Non-Executive Directors monitor high level corporate reporting and satisfy themselves as to the integrity of financial information and the operation of key financial controls.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection at MITIEs registered office, the head office and at the AGM.
The role of the Senior Independent Director is to make himself available to shareholders should they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director or for which such contact is inappropriate in the circumstances.
The Senior Independent Director in particular reviews information on major shareholders and financial analysis to obtain a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of shareholders.
Explained further below is the Senior Independent Directors role in succession planning and performance evaluation for the Chairman.
The Committees of the Board The Audit Committee The Company has a formally constituted Audit Committee comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors who are all considered as being appropriately experienced to fulfil their duties, and the chairman, David Jenkins, continues to be deemed by the Board as at the date of this report, to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience through his qualifications and held appointments.
The Committee is generally responsible for: monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the groups corporate reporting which includes any formal announcements relating to the groups financial performance, and any significant financial reporting judgements therein: monitoring and reviewing the independence and objectivity of the groups external auditors, the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process and the effectiveness and implementation of the group policy on the provision of non-audit services the Non-Audit Services Policy : monitoring and reviewing the integrity and effectiveness of the groups internal financial controls environment, internal audit function and enterprise risk management structures: and making recommendations to the Board on shareholder resolutions for the appointment of, and remuneration for, external auditors.
The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
During the financial year, the Committee met three times and meetings are attended by the Companys external auditors, the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Enterprise Risk Director.
The matters under consideration at these meetings included: generally monitoring the groups corporate reporting process and the statutory audit of the annual group accounts: the Half-yearly Financial Report and Annual Report and Accounts: critical accounting policies and judgements: the review of the external auditors audit plan, nature and scope of work and overall summary of key issues and judgements: the tendering of external audit services for the group and the re-appointment of the external auditors: the effectiveness of the external auditors including the appropriateness and skills of the audit team: compliance with the Non-Audit Services Policy and maintenance of auditor independence: the approval of the group risk assurance framework and the internal audit plan: the review of key internal audit reports and findings: and generally monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control, audit and risk management systems and functions.
The Committee also meets separately with the external auditors and the Enterprise Risk Director without the presence of the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee Information about the structure and processes for the Remuneration Committee is included on page 64 within the Remuneration Report.
51 Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 'LUHFWRUV UHSRUW %RDUG VWUXFWXUH DQG OHDGHUVKLS The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies and to consider the need to refresh the skills, experience and diversity represented on the Board to support the growth of the business.
It leads the process for appointments to the Board.
On an appointment, Directors are made aware of what is expected from them in terms of time commitment, Committee service and involvement outside Board meetings.
All Directors receive a personally tailored induction to MITIE which includes visits to Company and key client sites and they receive an information pack, which includes copies of MITIEs Memorandum and Articles of Association, latest Annual Report and Accounts, Committee terms of reference and copies of recent Board and Committee minutes and supporting papers.
Directors are given access to the virtual boardroom which, as well as holding all board reports, holds the Board Handbook containing essential information about the Company: Board and Committee terms of reference: Directors statutory duties: governance and regulatory guidelines: the groups approved delegated authorities, and an overview of the groups insurance arrangements.
The Handbook is reviewed and updated regularly as and when regulatory developments arise.
Training and development for Directors continues to be a key focus and additional briefing notes are circulated on matters such as changes in the regulatory and governance environment.
In respect of changes to the membership on the Board or its Committees, the Nomination Committee makes appropriate recommendations following a careful and considered evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and term served.
It seeks to ensure that the Directors continue to provide the requisite skills, knowledge and experience to support the development and needs of a growing organisation and diversity forms an important part in this process.
MITIE welcomes general principles underpinning the need to consider diversity at Board level and sees this as an opportunity to help organisations shift their behaviour around diversity.
The Board believes that setting aspirational diversity targets could drive a different behaviour that is not necessarily in the best interests of the organisation and the issue of Board diversity should be tackled in a manner that considers all areas of the diversity agenda.
Diversity at Board level has to be balanced against the required skills and experience and should be a natural fit into any recruitment or succession planning and talent management process.
During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed the composition and chairmanship of the Board and each of its Committees and the Board has determined that all Non-Executive Directors were independent in character and judgement.
The membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees were widened to include all the Non-Executive Directors and the Board has confirmed that it is satisfied that its current composition is appropriate having regard in particular to the integrity, skills, knowledge and experience of its Directors and the size and nature of the business.
The Investment Committee In order to further strengthen the Companys governance structures and facilitate the internal approvals process the Board has approved the terms for the establishment of an Investment Committee which comprises of the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
The Investment Committee reviews and approves proposals on matters such as acquisitions, disposals, capital expenditure and operational transactions, presented in accordance with the group delegated authorities.
The Results Committee In addition, the Board has approved the establishment of a Results Committee which comprises of the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
This Committee assists the Board in approving matters such as interim and final results announcements, other routine, non-material announcements, dividend payments and shareholder communications.
52 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 %RDUG HIIHFWLYHQHVV Board meetings and meeting attendance All Directors are expected to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively and, where possible, attend all Board meetings and the AGM.
Any time commitment matters are addressed by the Chairman with the Director concerned.
During the year ended 31 March 2012, there were six scheduled Board meetings.
Additional unscheduled Board meetings were held to deal with the review and approval of material contracts, acquisitions and issues relating to shares and other administrative matters.
Information contained in Board papers is generally well presented and over the past 12 months has continued to improve to ensure effective decision making on areas critical to groups development.
The Board has introduced an electronic boardroom and all board papers are now distributed electronically which assists in the more efficient delivery of reports.
Each year, the Board holds a dedicated strategy meeting and a budget meeting.
Directors attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings Audit, Remuneration and Nomination of which they are members is shown in the following table: 1 1 1 Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings held in year: 6 3 5 2 R J Matthews 6 5 2 I R Stewart 5 R McGregor-Smith CBE 6 S C Baxter 6 W Robson 5 D S Jenkins 53 4 1 G J Potts 6 2 of 2 5 1 of 1 T K Morgan CBE 63 52 L Hirst CBE 6 3 2 of 2 1 of 1 Note: 1 The membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees were widened during the year to include all the Non-Executive Directors.
To assist with the business conducted at Board and Committee meetings, all Directors are supplied with an agenda and supporting papers for all Board meetings in a timely manner and from time to time, detailed presentations from non-Board members on operational matters.
In addition, members receive monthly reports from the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director on the operational and financial performance of the group.
During the course of the year, the structure and content of these reports has been reviewed to help improve the quality of information and ensure they continue to provide information that reflects the dynamics of the businesses and the markets within which the Company operates: such reports can also include updates on post-acquisition performance, contract wins and losses, organic growth, management accounts and results.
53 Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 'LUHFWRUV UHSRUW %RDUG HIIHFWLYHQHVV Director commitments Executive Directors are permitted to accept appointments outside the group provided permission is sought from the Chairman and the Chief Executive and that the additional appointments do not interfere with the Directors ability to discharge their duties effectively.
The commitments outside the group of the Executive Directors are detailed in the Remuneration Report on page 64.
Executive Directors are entitled to retain any fees earned from these external appointments.
Directors interests With regards to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association and the Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Director conflicts The Board has a formal policy on the declaration and management of Director conflicts in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company which has operated effectively during the reporting period.
Any potential situation or transactional conflict must be reported as soon as possible to the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Where a potential conflict is authorised under the statutory powers and powers granted under the Articles of Association to the Board, such conflict is kept under ongoing review.
Director indemnities The Company maintains Directors and officers liability insurance, providing appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors and or officers.
The Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company extend the protection provided to Directors in respect of any litigation against Directors relating to their position as a Director of the Company, and specifically provide that the Company may indemnify Directors against any liability incurred in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the Company and that the Company may fund defence costs.
Individual Directors would still be liable to pay damages awarded to the Company in any action against them by the Company and to repay their defence costs to the extent funded by the Company if their defence was unsuccessful.
Board evaluation The Board is committed to effective and rigorous review of its performance and that of the Committees and individual Directors, and accordingly a formal evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and of each Director is performed annually.
The Chairman, with the Company Secretary, reviews the evaluation process and has considered the extent to which such a process should be externally facilitated and has reported to the Nomination Committee on its conclusions.
This year, it was recommended that the Board continue with an evaluation process that uses a combination of a formal appraisal questionnaire and one-to-one meetings.
The questionnaire was separately reviewed and refreshed to ensure that the questions remain meaningful, objective and support an open and transparent process, and focus on Board composition and contributions, meeting processes and the performance of the Chairman which is reviewed separately and led by the Senior Independent Director.
The conclusions and recommendations flowing from the evaluation are reviewed by the Chairman with the Chief Executive and shared with the Board.
It is a constructive process used to improve performance and help shape the future composition of the Board.
The Board has confirmed that whilst there is an overall level of satisfaction with the performance of the Board and that of its Committees and Directors, there was a continuing need for the Board to focus on the implementation of the growth strategy and ensuring it has the skills, experience and diversity to achieve it.
Director re-election As part of the formal Board evaluation, the Board has considered the performance of each Director and is satisfied that they continue to be effective and demonstrate clear commitment to their role.
All Directors, with the exception of Ian Stewart, will submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
54 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 %RDUG DFFRXQWDELOLW Risk management and internal control The Board is responsible for determining the level of acceptable risk that is appropriate for the group when establishing and operating to achieve the groups strategic objectives.
It regularly reviews the effectiveness of the groups risk management programme and systems of internal control.
Both the Board and the Audit Committee receive regular updates from the Enterprise Risk Director for the group on potential risks that may impact upon the group and the environment in which it operates.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve these objectives and strategies and it will only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement and loss.
Internal control framework The Board and senior management are responsible for maintaining and developing a culture of good governance and integrity, competence, fairness and responsibility throughout the group.
Essential to this is the recruitment and retention of highly skilled individuals who promote the highest standards of integrity, competence, governance and ethical behaviour.
Group policies and procedures support the business by providing an operational internal control framework for the group, each division and operating business to work within.
This framework is designed to balance the need for group-wide consistency and control with the autonomy that local management require to develop and manage each operating business successfully.
Responsibilities are clearly defined and delegated in accordance with the groups delegated authorities and authorisation registers and ensure compliance with the matters reserved for the Board.
The formal delegated authorities matrix is issued to all operating subsidiaries that includes both financial and non-financial authorities and matters relating to strategy, contract approval, recruitment, capital expenditure, banking transactions and specific group policies.
Periodically, the Board reviews the delegated authorities to consider the authorities in light of activities within the organisation to ensure that they continue to facilitate the way in which the group operates.
Each operating subsidiary is headed by a managing or regional director who has authority to manage their business within this framework of delegated authorities and group policies and procedures.
To support the business further, the group function has a team of specialist resources with individuals responsible for specific functions including legal, health and safety, IT, insurance, human resources, tax, pensions, purchasing, finance and enterprise risk.
Regular dialogue between these functions and the operating businesses provides additional support and forms a key part of the system of internal control.
Monitoring the system of internal control Monitoring is carried out throughout the year via the receipt and review of various reports, presentations and discussions with management, as set out above.
Specifically, the Audit Committee supports the Board by monitoring and guiding the activities of the internal audit function, including approving the internal audit programme and reviewing regular internal audit reports from the Enterprise Risk function.
The internal audit programme is designed to provide a level of assurance over key risks as identified in the group risk register and is developed by the Enterprise Risk Director who reports independently to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also receives regular reports from the external auditors who contribute a further independent perspective on certain aspects of the internal financial control systems arising from their work.
As necessary, the Audit Committee will have dialogue with the Executive Directors on their control responsibilities.
To further encourage a culture of risk management within the business, the Executive Board regularly reviews the programme of risk management undertaken across the group to demonstrate the importance of the management and assessment of risk at a senior level.
During 2011, MITIE enhanced its approach to risk management, by bringing together existing risk management resources into an Enterprise Risk function, led by an Enterprise Risk Director.
This restructured approach allows the Company to strengthen capability and resource through the sharing of best practice across the group.
The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the group which is monitored in accordance with the revised guidance on internal control issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
This work has focused on the assurance framework that exists within the group, the use and compilation of risk registers and an increase in the use of computer assisted audit techniques.
The Board confirms that its risk assessment process has been in place throughout the reporting year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board considers the nature and extent of the significant risks it takes in setting strategies which are detailed further in the section regarding risk factors that could affect the business on pages 46 and 47.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing risks requires the group and its principal businesses to consider strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks and the effectiveness of the mitigating controls based on a pre and post-controls risk evaluation.
The principal risks identified from this process are recorded in the groups risk register which is maintained by the groups Enterprise Risk function.
This register is reviewed 55 Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 'LUHFWRUV UHSRUW %RDUG DFFRXQWDELOLW periodically by the Board and forms the basis of the internal audit programme for each year with risk areas reviewed on an annual to triennial basis dependent upon materiality and inherent risk assessment.
Reported potential economic crimes and whistleblowing activity is communicated to the Audit Committee along with the results of investigations carried out.
These investigations have not identified any risks that result in a material, unmitigated exposure to the group.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control In line with Turnbull Guidance and C. 2.1 of the Code, the Board performs a formal annual assessment of the operation and effectiveness of the system of internal control, covering all material controls including financial, operation and compliance controls, and updates this assessment prior to the signing of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board also holds discussions with senior management and reviews the results of a formal internal controls review and system effectiveness confirmation from each operating subsidiary.
The Enterprise Risk Director attends each Audit Committee meeting to provide regular updates on the effectiveness of the groups internal controls.
The Board confirms that management has taken steps during the year to improve the system of internal control, embed effective controls further into the operations of the group and to address improvements as they come to managements attention.
These steps are monitored at executive level to ensure they are implemented appropriately and that they are effective.
Internal control systems: information and communication The group maintains a number of systems and processes that report relevant information to group executive management and the Board as necessary.
This includes financial and non-financial information regarding business performance, compliance with policy and procedure, relevant regulations and business critical matters.
At an operational level each division and business holds regular board and management meetings.
To maintain and develop relationships between separate divisions and to address specific matters, regional meetings are also held and are attended by regional representatives of each division.
Senior group management also regularly attend these meetings.
Consolidated accounts preparation and financial reporting The consolidated accounts of the group are prepared by the Group Finance function that is responsible for the review and compilation of reports and financial results from each of the operating divisions and subsidiaries within the group, in accordance with the group internal control and reporting procedures.
Each operating division supports its report and results submission with a statement of compliance with the groups principal internal controls which is subject to review and sample audit by the internal audit function.
In addition, the representations made by the Board in support of the consolidated financial statements, including those in relation to the operating divisions, are supported by detailed papers and cascaded reporting requirements throughout the group, which are reviewed by either the Group Finance team or internal audit and presented to the Audit Committee and the Board for final approval as appropriate.
External auditor Each year the Audit Committee reviews auditor performance in respect of audit services, audit related services and non-audit services and is committed to ensuring the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
During the year, MITIE invited tenders for its external audit services.
Four audit firms were invited to participate and a formal process of interviews and evaluations followed.
The tender process included the review of the Companys existing auditor performance in respect of services provided, audit related services, non-audit related services and independence and objectivity.
The Audit Committee concluded that Deloitte LLP should be appointed given the relevant experience of their London team in both the PLC environment and support services sector and their proposal with regard to the execution of the audit plan.
The Audit Committee recommended to the Board the continued engagement of Deloitte LLP as the Companys external auditor and has recommended their re-appointment at the AGM.
Deloitte LLP has expressed willingness to continue in office as auditors and accordingly the Board is recommending a resolution for re-appointment for approval by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
The Audit Committee has approved a Non-Audit Services Policy that ensures that it has visibility over the levels of non-audit work performed by the auditors and requires notification to the Chairman of the Audit Committee for any non-audit spend with the auditors that, on an annual basis cumulatively exceeds 100% of the annual audit fee and or where any item, regardless of amount, is considered significant.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that this policy provides sufficient control over the levels of non-audit spend with the auditors whilst providing sufficient flexibility for the Group Finance Director to approve expenditure on advice below those levels.
Non-audit services provided to the group during the year included taxation services and corporate finance services in relation to acquisitions.
56 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 This policy also restricts the external auditors from performing work which will result in them auditing their own work, making management decisions for the group, creating a conflict of interest, finding themselves in the role of advocate for MITIE or creating any potential threat to their independence.
Additionally, the external auditors will only be considered for the provision of non-audit services if they are best suited to perform the work in question.
Deloitte LLP also maintains its own internal controls designed to safeguard its independence.
A summary of the fees paid to the external auditors is given in Note 6 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee confirms that the requirements of the Non-Audit Services Policy have been met throughout the year.
Disclosure of information to the auditors Each of the Directors in office as of the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts confirms that: so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information being information required by the auditors in the preparation of their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and he she has each taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of such information.
This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern The Directors acknowledge the Financial Reporting Councils Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies issued in October 2009 and An update for Directors of Listed Companies: Responding to increased country and currency risk in financial reports.
The groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the business review as referred to on pages 8 to 47.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial review on pages 42 to 45.
In addition, Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements includes details of the groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The group benefits from a large number of long-term contracts with a broad range of public and private customers which provide a strong forward order book of 8.6bn and high visibility of secured work 83% of budgeted revenue for the financial year ending 31 March 2013.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The groups financial forecasts, taking into account possible sensitivities in trading performance, indicate that the group will be able to operate within the level of its committed borrowing facilities.
The groups committed borrowing facilities comprise 100.2m of US Private Placement Loan Notes expiring between December 2017 and December 2019 which were issued in December 2010 and its committed banking facilities.
The group renegotiated its banking facilities in March 2011 and its committed facility of 250m will remain in place until September 2015.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
6KDUHKROGHU HQJDJHPHQW The Board is committed to an on-going, proactive dialogue with institutional and private investors and continues to support the introduction of the UK Stewardship Code, applicable to institutional shareholders, to further encourage engagement between the Company and its shareholders.
A full programme of formal and informal events, institutional investor meetings and presentations are also held following the Halfyearly and Preliminary Results announcements which are led by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available for additional meetings with shareholders upon request.
The Board encourages the on-going dialogue between the Directors and investors and as such all Directors, with the exception of David Jenkins were present at the 2011 AGM and made themselves available for direct discussions with shareholders.
Latest group information, financial reports, corporate governance and sustainability matters, Half-yearly and Preliminary Results presentations, major shareholder information and all announcements are made available to shareholders via the MITIE website www.
com which has a specific area dedicated to investor relations.
Significant importance is attached to investor feedback on the groups performance, and as such the Board receives an investor relations report at each meeting detailing corporate news, share price activity, investor relations activity and major shareholder movements.
The Board is also regularly updated and provided with investor feedback, broker updates and detailed analyst reports following the Half-year and Preliminary Results presentations.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board is made aware of the issues and concerns of the major shareholders.
The AGM also allows shareholders to address and discuss any issues surrounding the group directly with the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
57 Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 'LUHFWRUV UHSRUW 6KDUHKROGHU HQJDJHPHQW Electronic communications The Directors remain committed to improving and extending the electronic methods in which the Company communicates with its shareholders, not only allowing the latest information on the group to be provided instantly but recognising the environmental benefits.
The Board encourages each shareholder to join the growing number of investors electing to receive their information electronically and further details on how to register are provided on the inside back cover of this report.
AGM MITIEs AGM will be held on 11 July 2012 at 2.30pm at UBS, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London, EC2M 2PP.
As is required by the Code, all Directors, with the exception of Ian Stewart, will be standing for re-election at the AGM.
2WKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ Capital structure Share capital and powers of shareholders The group is financed through both equity share capital and debt instruments.
Details of changes to the Companys share capital are given in Note 31 to the financial statements.
The Company has a single class of shares 2.5p Ordinary shares with no right to any fixed income and with each share carrying the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to participate in any dividends pro-rata to their holding.
The Board may propose and pay interim dividends and recommend a final dividend for approval by the shareholders at the AGM.
A final dividend may be declared by the shareholders in a general meeting by ordinary resolution, but such dividend cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
Share capital authorisations At the 2011 AGM shareholders authorised: the Directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,401,672.18 shares, representing one third of the issued share capital plus 16,804,451 outstanding commitment in respect of options granted under MITIEs share schemes such total equating to 38.0% of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2011. the dis-application of pre-emption rights over allotted shares up to an aggregate nominal value equal to 447,234 or a maximum 17,889,365 shares representing 5% of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2011.
During the reporting period, the Directors utilised both these authorities and the preceding authority to allot 9,507,937 shares to an aggregate nominal amount of 237,698 to employees participating in MITIEs share schemes and to minority shareholders in consideration for MITIE Model shares.
the Company to make market purchases of its own shares up to a total of 35,778,731 shares representing 10% of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2011.
On 25 May 2011, MITIE commenced a programme to purchase its shares in the market in order to offset shares issued on 17 August 2011, to satisfy the consideration payable for the purchase of minority interests under the MITIE Model.
During the financial year to 31 March 2012 the Company purchased 5,400,000 shares nominal value 135,000 and which equates to 1.49% of the issued share capital at year end in the market for a total consideration of 12.3m at an average price of 227.5p per share.
The highest price paid was 255.9p per share and the lowest price paid was 208.6p per share.
It is not MITIEs current intention to operate a formal share purchase programme outside of this arrangement, although it may purchase shares to offset share scheme exercise activity at its discretion.
Further details of these authorisations are available in the notes to the 2011 Notice of AGM and shareholders are referred to the 2012 Notice both are available at www.
com investors which contains similar provisions in respect of the Companys share capital.
58 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Restrictions on the trading of shares Certain shares that are issued as consideration upon acquisition by the Company of the shares of minority shareholders in MITIE Model companies have restrictions placed upon them that both prevent the transfer of such shares and or attach specific claw-back provisions for periods of up to two years following allotment.
Otherwise, there are no specific restrictions on the size of any shareholding or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company available at www.
com investors corporate-governance and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between Company shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital.
Details of employee share schemes are set out below and in Note 36 to the Accounts.
Recipients of MITIE Group PLC shares received under a MITIE investment model are restricted from selling the shares received as consideration for a minimum of two years.
The Board believes that this is a unique business model that has driven MITIEs past performance and continues to ensure a close alignment of interest between MITIE shareholders and the management and employees of the group.
The group operates a Share Trading and Insider Dealing Policy which provides a framework to prepare and maintain lists of those persons who have access to inside information relating to MITIE and explains to employees the rules regarding dealing in MITIE Group PLC Shares by MITIEs employees who have been identified as insiders.
A list of insider names is held by the Company Secretary and those identified are informed individually and asked to read, understand and follow the procedures detailed in the policy.
Lists are maintained electronically and all identified insiders receive an email notification advising of the groups relevant close periods.
Significant interests in MITIEs share capital As at 18 May 2012 the Company has been notified of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Number of Percentage Ordinary shares of share of 2.5p each capital Massachusetts Financial Services Company 17,993,365 5.09% Majedie Asset Management Limited 18,111,4725.00% FMR LLC 18,000,006 5.04% AXA IM SA 18,003,137 4.99% Details of the Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are detailed within the Remuneration Report on pages 72 and 73.
Other share matters There are a number of other agreements with provisions that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as bank facility agreements and employee share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the normal course of the business for the group.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs solely because of a takeover bid.
PSOR HHV The Board remains committed to fostering and developing a culture of employee involvement in the business through communication with employees and equity involvement whereby employees are enabled to build a stake in the Company through the Companys various equity-based incentive schemes.
Equity-based incentives The Board believes that the groups culture of employee equity involvement is a significant driver in the groups growth performance and that this assists in attracting and retaining skilled and committed employees.
During the year the group has continued to operate the MITIE Long Term Incentive Plan to incentivise and reward senior members of the MITIE management team, the Executive Share Option Scheme for certain other employees and the Savings Related Share Option Scheme which is open to all eligible employees of the group.
In addition, following shareholder approval at the 2011 AGM, MITIE launched a Share Incentive Plan to all eligible employees in January 2012.
59 Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 'LUHFWRUV UHSRUW PSOR HHV The group has historically grown by giving entrepreneurial managers the opportunity to create wealth by taking the risk of starting a new business, taking equity stakes at fair value in those new businesses in conjunction with MITIE and then, dependent on a pre-agreed pricing structure, offering to sell that stake to MITIE predominantly in exchange for MITIE shares, at the option of the Company.
In 2011, the group launched a 10m Entrepreneurial Fund to back management teams with innovative ideas for starting mutually owned businesses.
The Board remains committed to supporting growing businesses through the Fund which builds on a long history of partnering with management teams to start up new business ventures.
During the year, the Company has invested over 4m from the Entrepreneurial Fund, in the form of MITIE Model start-ups, second generation equity schemes and other equity incentive based businesses.
Under the terms of certain shareholder agreements and articles of association relating to MITIE Model companies, certain minority shareholders in such companies may provide an option for the purchase by the Company of their minority shares.
The mechanism for calculating the price to be paid in respect of such transfer is transparent, on an arms-length basis, and in accordance with the pricing structure generally applicable for other transfers under the MITIE Model.
In consideration for these purchases, the Company generally has the option to settle payment in cash or in MITIE shares.
On 17 August 2011 the Company announced the purchase of certain minority shareholdings in five of its subsidiary companies: MITIE Cleaning Services Limited, MITIE Engineering Maintenance Caledonia Limited, MITIE Landscapes Limited, MITIE Property Services UK Limited MPSUKL and MITIE Transport Services Limited in accordance with the respective articles of association and shareholders agreements of those companies.
The total maximum consideration for all five transactions amounted to 14.6m, being satisfied as to 2.0m in cash and as to the remaining 12.6m by the issue of 5,265,964 new ordinary shares of 2.5p each valued at 238.7p per share, being the closing market price per MITIE share on 27 July 2011.
As a result of these acquisitions, MITIE now owns 100% of the issued share capital of all five companies with the exception of MITIE Landscapes Limited of which 89% of the issued share capital will be owned.
The selling shareholders gave certain warranties and assurances relating to past and future performance of the relevant subsidiary companies.
The shares issued in consideration are being held in safe custody for a maximum period of two years and may be sold to meet any claims that the Company may have in the future in relation to those warranties and assurances.
Details of these structures are generally available to the extent incorporated into the articles of association for individual MITIE Model companies from Companies House at www.
As part of the arrangements to purchase shares in MPSUKL the Company entered into an agreement to purchase shares held by Kenneth Robson a relative of William Robson, an Executive Director of the Company in MPSUKL.
Kenneth Robson served notice on MITIE to sell 40,000 B ordinary shares in MPSUKL at the same time as other shareholders, for a total consideration of 0.5m.
This equated to 1.11% of MPSUKLs issued share capital.
Shareholders approved the substantial property transaction at a general meeting held on 10 November 2011 and an application was made to the UK Listing Authority and the London Stock Exchange in respect of the consideration shares due to Kenneth Robson.
Recipients of shares under this incentive scheme are generally restricted from selling the MITIE shares received as consideration for a minimum of two years.
On 10 November 2011 shareholders also approved three new equity participation schemes under the MITIE Model which gives entrepreneurial managers the opportunity to create wealth by taking the risk of taking equity stakes in new businesses or more mature businesses in conjunction with MITIE and then, dependent on a pre-agreed pricing structure, offering to sell that stake to MITIE between the fifth and tenth years from the date of establishment of the business.
Shareholders approved the introduction of the schemes allowing certain employees to share in any additional value which they help to create.
At this years AGM the Board is seeking a general approval from shareholders that allows the Company to enter into such schemes pursuant to the Listing Rules.
Communication with employees Communication with MITIEs employees remains a high priority.
The group communicates with employees through the use of group-wide mailings, employee magazines and updates, employee-focused initiatives, media networks and the provision of access to broadcasts of periodic financial presentations.
We are also committed to developing our use of social media tools as an effective way of communicating with our people because we recognise that these methods can provide great ways of allowing our people to give us feedback, share ideas and engage with the wider MITIE community.
Our social media tools are supported by a group-wide intranet system which improved communications and information sharing across the business and includes blog updates by the Executive Board members and functional teams.
60 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Through the use of their own communication processes each of the groups businesses is encouraged to ensure that employees are kept informed on group and individual business developments and social networking sites continue to play an important part of engagement and communication with employees.
The group continues to operate its group-wide MITIE Stars programme to recognise and reward exceptional performance by its people.
The MITIEs Got Talent, group-wide talent contest continues to be supported and encourages employee engagement and recognition.
The group Sustainability Report contains further details of these initiatives and is available from www.
Employees remain actively involved in the groups activities via an employee forum.
This year the forum held two meetings and included presentations by senior management or functional heads as requested by the employee representatives.
The Executive Board will continue to seek increasing involvement and activity of the employee representatives.
During the year, the group launched an employee engagement survey in certain parts of the group to gather feedback on the employee experience.
Employee diversity and inclusion The Board remains committed to developing further a culture that encourages the inclusion and diversity of all of the groups employees through respecting and appreciating their differences and promoting the continuous development of employees through skills enhancement and training programmes.
The groups employment policies are designed to attract, retain, train and motivate the very best people, recognising that this can be achieved only through offering equal opportunities regardless of gender, race, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation or any other aspect of diversity.
Applications from disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
It is the policy of the group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons including those who become disabled whilst employees of the group should, as far as reasonably possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Further information can be found within the groups dedicated Sustainability Report which can be found at www.
LQDQFLDO PDWWHUV Financial results and dividends A detailed commentary on the financial results of the group for the year is contained within the financial review on pages 42 to 45 of this report.
The profit before taxation for the financial year is 94.5m 2011: 86.8m.
The Directors declared an interim dividend of 4.4p per Ordinary share with a total value of 15.5m 2011: 14.4m which was paid to shareholders on 6 February 2012.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.2p per Ordinary share with a total value of 18.4m based upon the number of shares issued as at 16 May 2012 2011: 17.5m.
The final dividend for the year will be paid on 7 August 2012, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, to ordinary shareholders on the register on 22 June 2012.
The total dividend per Ordinary share for the year ended 31 March 2012 is 9.6p 2011: 9.0p.
The Company operates a Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP which allows shareholders to build their holding by using the cash dividend to purchase additional shares in MITIE.
Further details on the operation of the DRIP are included at the back of this report and are available from MITIEs Registrar.
During the reporting period, the trustees of the Companys Employee Benefit Trusts waived dividends on shares held.
61 Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 'LUHFWRUV UHSRUW LQDQFLDO PDWWHUV Financial instruments The groups financial instruments include bank loans, finance leases, overdrafts, US private placement loan notes and performance guarantees.
In addition, various other financial instruments such as trade creditors and trade debtors arise from its trade.
The use of interest rate swaps and currency derivatives are used to manage interest and currency risk when necessary or material.
The principal objective of these instruments is to raise funds for general corporate purposes and to manage financial risk.
Further details of these instruments are given in Note 26 to the financial statements.
Events after the balance sheet date There have not been any significant events post the balance sheet date.
Payment of creditors The group manages its procurement and supply chain with increasing consideration of its impact on the Companys profitability, reputation and sustainability objectives and is committed to proactively developing mutually beneficial and sustainable trading relationships with all of our stakeholders, based on a foundation of trust and co-operation.
The groups Ethical Business Practices Policy provides a framework and demonstrates our values and commitment to developing and implementing ethical business practices throughout the organisation.
The groups policy is to comply with the terms of payment agreed with suppliers on the groups standard purchasing terms as notified to suppliers.
Notification of these terms is issued with each generated purchase order and a copy of the groups standard purchasing terms can be found at www.
At 31 March 2012, the group had 35 days purchases outstanding 2011: 36 days.
Future developments The operating review sets out the Boards view on the future developments of the group.
Research and development Given the nature of the groups activities it does not carry out any material research and development work.
Donations Donations to charity and community projects made during the year amounted to 160,648 2011: 190,738.
The total value of community investment was 541,401 2011: 534,015.
The Directors of MITIE Group PLC confirm that they do not and will not make political donations.
By order of the Board Marie-Claire Haines Company Secretary 21 May 2012 62 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 'LUHFWRUV UHSRUW VWDWHPHQW RI 'LUHFWRUV UHVSRQVLELOLWLHV Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors are required to prepare the financial statements for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS and have chosen to prepare Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with IFRS where applicable.
The Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific IFRS requirements is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and, make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
In the parent company accounts, the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and, prepare financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, safeguarding the assets, taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities, and the preparation of a Directors report and Directors remuneration report which comply with the relevant requirements of the Companies Acts, Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
Financial statements published by the Company on this website are prepared in accordance with UK legislation which may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
To the best of each Directors knowledge the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards and contained within this Annual Report and Accounts, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, and the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with the description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
By order of the Board Ruby McGregor-Smith CBE Suzanne Baxter Chief Executive Group Finance Director 21 May 2012 21 May 2012 63 Accounts Governance Business review Overview
