Corporate governance report Introduction from joint chairmen As a dual listed company operating in South Africa and the UK, Mondi has a complex structure of law and regulation to consider.
From the outset the Boards took the view that the highest standard across both jurisdictions was the appropriate level against which we should measure our compliance.
While this has not always been easy as governance and regulation is continually evolving and there are different areas of emphasis in South Africa and the UK, we remain comfortable that we instill the appropriate behaviours throughout the Group.
Regular updates from the company secretaries are supplemented with presentations from advisers to ensure that the Boards remain on top of the latest developments and governance thinking.
We have had stable Boards during 2012, the last director change having been in 2011.
As it is a relatively small Board of nine this encourages positive dynamics and enables open and robust debate in order that we reach the best possible conclusions.
Strategy has been continuously examined with due regard to the sector cyclicality and wider economic constraints.
For example, in 2012 we considered the opportunity to create a leading consumer packaging business which culminated in the successful acquisition of Nordenia.
All directors were active in the discussions and decisions based on their knowledge of the Group and the environment in which it operates and brought to bear past experience in their individual areas of expertise.
Board meetings are very open and allow for free flowing debate of key issues.
The relationship between the executives and the non-executives is mature, supportive and constructively challenging.
One of the most frequent comments we received during the recent board evaluation process was the openness and transparency of the discussion and dialogue with executive management.
This has created an appropriate environment that reflects the culture of Mondi where every proposal will be given a fair hearing.
Another key theme of the evaluation feedback was the consistent leadership on safety, health, environment, ethics and standards.
We have a DLC sustainable development committee that meets six times each year and covers a range of areas of particular concern to the Group and the environment in which it operates.
During the year Mondi Limited has also established a social and ethics committee in order to give board level oversight of matters specific to the operating environment of South Africa.
Understanding the external environment is vital and the uncertain global economic climate continued to affect businesses during 2012.
The Boards accordingly remained focused on ensuring there was a regular review of financial performance with reports received on a range of issues including cash management, cash flow, Group financing arrangements and regular updates on risk and controls.
The Group has a well entrenched control environment and a structured risk review programme both of which enable the Boards to have confidence that new risks can be managed and surprises minimised.
The Boards annual rolling programme ensures that regular presentations are made on a variety of topics including IT management and security, compliance procedures, in particular competition compliance, and the implementation of the business integrity policy.
We have strong and committed chairmanship of all our committees, who report back to the Boards after each committee meeting to ensure that the Boards are properly informed.
In October the Boards had the opportunity to visit Swiecie in Poland and see firsthand one of the Groups key assets, and specifically the lightweight containerboard paper machine and corrugated packaging operation, the result of a E330 million investment project completed in 2009.
Also, the non-executive directors are encouraged to undertake site visits outside of the regular board programme and there have been a number of visits made during the year.
When reviewing succession the focus for the Boards included diversity in its broadest sense.
We have strong female representation on the Boards with Anne Quinn and Imogen Mkhize, but recognise that more needs to be done below board level.
Management are taking action, agreed with the Boards, that we hope will, over time, improve the level of diversity in the Group especially amongst the senior teams.
The Boards remain committed to the principles of transparency, integrity and accountability and support the highest standards of corporate governance and best practice.
We will strive to maintain our high standards going forward.
Cyril Ramaphosa David Williams Joint chairman Joint chairman 66 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 66 2013 03 04 3:00 PM DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance Dual listed company structure Mondi operates under a dual listed company DLC structure, which requires compliance with the corporate and accounting regulations of both South Africa and the UK.
Mondi Limited and Mondi plc have separate corporate identities.
Mondi Limited has a primary listing on the JSE Limited JSE and Mondi plc has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange LSE and a secondary listing on the JSE.
Under the DLC structure, any ordinary share held in either Mondi Limited or Mondi plc gives the holder an effective economic interest in the whole Mondi Group.
The relationship between Mondi Limited and Mondi plc is underpinned by the DLC structure principles, which provide that: Mondi Limited and Mondi plc and their subsidiaries must operate as if they are a single corporate group: and the directors of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc will, in addition to their duties to the company concerned, have regard to the interests of the Mondi Limited shareholders and the Mondi plc shareholders as if the two companies were a single unified economic enterprise and for that purpose the directors of each company will take into account, in the exercise of their powers, the interests of the shareholders of the other.
The boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc together the Boards review and monitor compliance with the governance and regulatory requirements in both South Africa and the UK.
The report below provides an insight into the complexities managed by the Boards in order to maintain the highest standards of governance throughout Mondi.
Compliance statement Mondi has complied throughout the year with the principles contained in the South African King III Code of Corporate Governance Principles available at www.
co. za and the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council available at www.
uk save as set out below: Cyril Ramaphosa, joint chairman, was not considered independent upon appointment due to his connection with Mondi through the Shanduka Group as explained more fully on page 69: and the Boards determined that the DLC sustainable development committee provided the appropriate oversight for the sustainability reporting in the Integrated report and financial statements 2012 rather than the DLC audit committee, as recommended under King III.
Due to the nature of Mondis business the DLC sustainable development committee regularly reviews all key sustainability issues for the Group, meeting six times a year and reports directly to the Boards.
Therefore it is considered to be better placed to review the integrity of the sustainability reporting.
The DLC sustainable development committee therefore provides the assurance on sustainability issues in the Integrated report and financial statements 2012.
A more detailed analysis of Mondis compliance with King III is available on the Mondi Group website at www.
Board structure The Boards, led by the joint chairmen, provide leadership for the Group.
There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Boards.
This is reviewed annually and is available on the Mondi Group website at www.
In addition, in view of the broad nature of the Boards responsibilities, certain specific duties have been delegated to committees as detailed below.
The key committees are audit, nominations, remuneration and sustainable development.
During the year, pursuant to the requirements of the South African Companies Act 2008, Mondi Limited established a social and ethics committee.
An executive committee deals with the day to day management of the Group, implementing decisions made by the Boards and managing the operational and financial performance.
The Boards add value to Mondi through setting the tone for the Group and their review and independent oversight of the: governance and ethical responsibilities: effective leadership through monitoring risk and effective controls: strategic review: sustainable and ethical business practices: and constructive challenge of management.
indd 67 2013 03 04 3:00 PM Corporate governance report continued This is achieved through the matters reserved for the Boards and an established rolling agenda that is reviewed and updated regularly to accommodate changes in circumstances, governance and regulation.
Communication with directors outside formal meetings is provided to them in hard copy, by e-mail and telephone, as appropriate to the circumstances.
The directors also engage in less formal exchanges between meetings.
Non-executive director meetings, chaired by the joint chairmen except when their performance is being considered, are held twice a year.
These meetings focus particularly on the performance of the Group and executives.
One of these meetings is attended by the chief executive officer in order to provide input to the discussions on executive performance and succession.
A policy is in place pursuant to which each director may obtain independent professional advice at Mondis expense in the furtherance of their duties as a director of either Mondi Limited or Mondi plc.
No requests were received during the year.
Throughout the year to 31 December 2012, in line with market practice, Mondi maintained directors and officers liability insurance.
Directors Mondi Limited and Mondi plc have boards of directors comprising the same individuals.
This enables the effective management of the dual listed structure as a single unified economic enterprise with due consideration being given to the interests of the ordinary shareholders of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc.
The directors holding office during the year ended 31 December 2012 are listed below, together with their attendance at board meetings.
As at 31 December 2012 there were nine directors: the joint chairmen, one of whom is considered to be independent, four non-executive directors each considered by the Boards to be independent and three executives.
There continues to be a strong mix of skills and industry experience, particularly in Europe and South Africa, locations important to Mondis operations.
Those in office as at the date of this report, together with their biographical details, can be found on pages 62 to 64.
Mondi Limited Mondi plc DLC Board member board board board Directors Position Independent since one meeting one meeting six meetings 1 Cyril Ramaphosa Joint chairman No May 2007 1 1 6 David Williams Joint chairman Yes May 2007 1 1 6 Stephen Harris Non-executive director Yes March 2011 1 1 6 1 David Hathorn Chief executive officer No May 2007 1 1 6 Andrew King Chief financial officer No October 2008 1 1 6 Imogen Mkhize Non-executive director Yes May 2007 1 1 6 John Nicholas Non-executive director Yes October 2009 1 1 6 Peter Oswald Chief executive officer, No January 2008 1 1 6 Europe & International Division Anne Quinn Senior independent Yes May 2007 1 1 6 non-executive director 1 Cyril Ramaphosa and David Hathorn were appointed directors of Mondi Limited in December 2004 and May 1997, respectively.
Joint chairmen and chief executive officer Mondi has joint chairmen, Cyril Ramaphosa and David Williams, with the chief executive officer role held separately by David Hathorn.
Having joint chairmen, one based in South Africa and the other in the UK, ensures that the Group and its stakeholders benefit from an extensive knowledge and experience of the jurisdictions relating specifically to its dual listed structure.
The joint chairmen maintain a regular dialogue with each other and manage the Boards through mutual agreement.
Half the DLC Board 68 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 68 2013 03 04 3:00 PM DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance meetings are held in South Africa and these will usually be chaired by Cyril Ramaphosa, with David Williams chairing the remaining meetings held in Europe.
The division of responsibilities between the joint chairmen and the chief executive officer has been clearly defined and approved by the Boards.
The principal responsibilities of the joint chairmen include to: lead the Boards, ensuring their effectiveness, consideration of succession and setting the agenda: ensure high standards of corporate governance and ethical behaviour: ensure that the Boards set a clear and appropriate strategy for the Group: and ensure effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders.
The principal responsibilities of the chief executive officer include to: lead the business: chair the DLC executive committee and lead the management team: ensure that the Group has effective processes and controls: and ensure that the Boards receive accurate, timely and clear information about the Groups performance.
In addition, they work closely on matters such as the relationships with major shareholders, governments, analysts, media and other external relationships at a senior level.
David Hathorn, chief executive officer, does not hold any directorships external to Mondi.
The main positions held by Cyril Ramaphosa and David Williams outside the Mondi Group are detailed in their biographies set out on page 62.
There have been no changes to the commitments of Cyril Ramaphosa during the year.
Cyril resigned from the board of Lonmin plc on 31 January 2013.
David Williams resigned from the board of Tullow Oil plc in May 2012.
David Williams was independent upon appointment, however, Cyril Ramaphosa was not considered independent upon appointment in view of his existing connection with Mondi as chairman of the Shanduka Group, which has a shareholding in Mondi Shanduka Newsprint Proprietary Limited.
Following his election as deputy president of South Africas ruling African National Congress in December 2012, Cyril reviewed his business commitments and, on 23 January 2013, notified the Boards that he would not stand for re-election at the annual general meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc on 3 May 2013.
Mondi has benefited greatly from Cyrils considerable knowledge and experience, particularly of the South African business environment.
David Williams, together with the four independent non-executive directors, have provided the required level of independent oversight during Cyrils term of office.
Cyril has always excused himself from any discussions involving matters in which he may have an interest through the Shanduka Group.
The Boards continue to consider that the chairmens external directorships do not interfere with the time they devote to Mondi, with both having made themselves available to management and other directors when required.
Senior independent director Anne Quinn is the senior independent director providing support to the joint chairmen.
During the year she chaired a meeting of the non-executive directors at which the performance of the joint chairmen was considered.
She is also available to shareholders should they have any concerns that contact through other channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact may be inappropriate.
No such requests were received during the year.
Company secretaries Philip Laubscher is the company secretary of Mondi Limited and Carol Hunt the company secretary of Mondi plc.
The company secretaries are appointed and removed by the Boards and are accountable to the Boards as a whole.
Pursuant to the Listings Requirements of the JSE the Boards confirm that they have reviewed and are satisfied that each of the company secretaries are competent and have the relevant qualifications and experience.
In assessing their competence the Boards have considered the expected role and duties pursuant to the requirements in both South Africa and the UK of the Companies Acts, governance codes and continuing obligations of the stock exchanges on which Mondi Group 69 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 69 2013 03 04 3:00 PM Corporate governance report continued Mondi is listed and considered their respective compliance with each of these.
The Boards have reviewed their performance not only during the last year but since joining Mondi.
The Boards concluded that the company secretaries have each complied with all the requirements of the Companies Acts, governance codes and continuing obligations of the relevant stock exchanges.
Each company secretary is professionally qualified and has experience gained over a number of years.
Their biographies can be found on page 65.
While all directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretaries, the company secretaries maintain an armslength relationship with the Boards.
They do not take part in board deliberations and only advise on matters of governance, form or procedure.
Throughout the year they have ensured compliance with board procedures, providing independent advice to the Boards on governance and compliance matters as necessary.
They report at each board meeting on relevant corporate governance and regulatory matters and changes, including the provision of advice on the performance of directors duties and the continuing obligations of the JSE and LSE.
Development and performance assessment New directors participate in an induction programme that is tailored to their specific duties on the Boards.
The programme includes meetings with executive management, site visits and meetings with any relevant external advisers.
In addition, a briefing from one of the company secretaries is provided on the DLC structure and its implications for the Boards, as well as the corporate governance issues in South Africa and the UK affecting the Group, directors duties and continuing obligations of the stock exchange listings.
All directors are provided with a handbook containing the committee terms of reference and key Group policies together with other material to assist them in understanding and fulfilling their duties.
Site visits are arranged where the opportunity arises in conjunction with board meetings and senior management throughout the Group are provided with opportunities to meet and present to the Boards.
During 2012 the Boards visited Mondi Swiecie in Poland.
Regular updates on governance and regulation are provided to the Boards by the company secretaries and external advisers.
During the year there was a particular focus on the governance developments in the UK.
In addition, an economist presented views on the European economic environment.
Corporate function specialists also present to the Boards at regular intervals.
Directors attend relevant training courses, workshops and seminars which support their position on the Boards and committees.
There is a policy in place setting out the parameters regarding the appointment of any executive director as a non-executive of another company.
Although valuable experience can be gained from such roles it is important for the Boards to ensure the appropriateness and number of such commitments.
A director will retain any fee paid to them in respect of directorships external to Mondi.
Peter Oswald is currently the only executive director holding an external position, being a non-executive director of Telekom Austria AG.
His current fee is set at E15,000 per annum plus a meeting attendance allowance which for 2012 amounted to E4,500 in total for the year.
Performance evaluation The last external evaluation was carried out in 2010 by Boardroom Review.
The Boards decided that an internal evaluation would be carried out in 2012.
In response to the agreed action plan from the 2011 evaluation, during the year a number of business unit presentations have been made to the Boards as well as industry specific presentations helping to put the Groups strategy into perspective.
Updates on governance and regulatory changes by external advisers have also been made to the Boards.
The 2012 internal review, which included the Boards, committees and individual directors, was undertaken by the joint chairmen with support from the company secretaries.
The senior independent director facilitated the review of the performance of the joint chairmen.
The evaluations were conducted through a series of questionnaires and interviews.
The results were reviewed by the DLC nominations committee and an action plan drawn up that was considered and approved by the Boards.
The key themes arising from the 2012 review were: the monitoring of the integration of recent acquisitions into the Mondi Group: and continuing to review the composition of the Boards to ensure appropriate succession and skills to complement Mondis strategic direction.
70 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 70 2013 03 04 3:00 PM DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance The Boards continue to benefit from the annual review process, the results from which help guide the future focus of meeting agendas and behaviours.
Procedure for conflicts of interest Company law, the memorandum of incorporation of Mondi Limited and the articles of association of Mondi plc allow directors to authorise potential conflicts.
A formal procedure for the reporting and review of any potential conflicts of interest involving the Boards with support from the company secretaries are in place, with authorisations reviewed on an annual basis.
DLC committees The DLC committees, to which the Boards delegate specific areas of responsibility as described below, have authority to make decisions according to their terms of reference.
Work programmes are agreed by each committee that are designed around the annual business calendar and their respective terms of reference.
Each committee reviews its terms of reference on an annual basis and these are available on the Mondi Group website at: www.
The committees are empowered, through their terms of reference, to seek independent professional advice at Mondis expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Only committee members are entitled to attend committee meetings, although the chairmen of each committee can invite, as they consider appropriate, management and advisers to meetings to provide information, answer questions and generally to assist the committees in carrying out their duties.
To ensure that the Boards as a whole have an understanding of any key issues under consideration by a committee, each committee chairman provides a report to the Boards following each committee meeting.
The membership of each of the DLC committees, together with attendance at each of the committee meetings held during the year, is detailed below.
DLC audit committee During 2012 the committee has focused in particular on the review of the accounting treatment of acquisitions, specifically Nordenia, and disposals, the resulting changes to internal reporting necessitating a new segmental reporting structure, the transition to a new UK external audit partner and considering the impact of new accounting pronouncements.
I am pleased to report that the Groups transparency, policies and internal control systems have enabled all these issues to be properly considered by the committee.
The committee strives to follow best practice and monitors governance developments in South Africa, the UK and Europe.
We have also been considering the changes we need to implement in response to the new requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code as they relate to the role and responsibilities of the committee.
John Nicholas Chairman of the DLC audit committee Committee member DLC audit committee Members since four meetings Stephen Harris March 2011 4 John Nicholas chairman October 2009 4 Anne Quinn May 2007 4 The DLC audit committee operates on a Group-wide basis.
The committee is constituted as a statutory committee in respect of the duties set out in the South African Companies Act 2008 and a DLC committee of the Boards in respect of other duties assigned to it by the Boards.
The committee met four times during the year and has four meetings scheduled for 2013.
The meetings are planned around the Groups financial reporting cycle.
The Group heads of internal audit and representatives from the external auditors, Deloitte & Touche and Deloitte LLP Deloitte, are regularly in attendance at meetings in order to provide assurances in support of the work of the committee.
The chief executive officer and chief financial officer attend by invitation, as Mondi Group 71 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 71 2013 03 04 3:00 PM Corporate governance report continued do other personnel from key finance functions.
For example the Group financial controller reports to the committee on the half-yearly and full year financial results.
All members of the committee are independent non-executive directors.
They each have relevant financial, accounting or similar experience from current or past employment.
The Boards consider each member has appropriate knowledge and understanding of financial matters, sufficient to enable them to consider effectively the financial and accounting issues that are presented to the committee.
The Boards consider John Nicholas, DLC audit committee chairman, to have specific recent and relevant financial experience.
He is a chartered accountant and a member of the UK Financial Reporting Review Panel.
He was formerly the group finance director of Tate & Lyle plc and is currently the audit committee chairman of Hunting PLC and Rotork p. l. c..
In accordance with the Listings Requirements of the JSE, the DLC audit committee has considered and satisfied itself that Andrew King, Mondis chief financial officer, has appropriate expertise and experience.
Andrew is a chartered accountant and throughout his career has held various finance and business development roles.
The committee has also considered and satisfied itself of the appropriateness of the expertise and adequacy of resources of the finance function and expertise of the senior management responsible for the finance function.
The committee has responsibility, among other things, for monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and reviewing the results announcements.
In fulfilling this responsibility the committee considers significant financial reporting judgements made by management, taking into account the reports received from the Group financial controller and the external auditors and considers the compliance of the financial statements with International Financial Reporting Standards.
This review takes account of matters presented to the committee during the year and covers consideration of the non-financial as well as financial statements to ensure that there are consistent messages throughout the reports.
During 2012 one of the key focuses for the committee has been the acquisitions, particularly Nordenia, and disposals undertaken, the accounting treatment thereof and the resulting changes in internal reporting which have necessitated a new segmental reporting structure within the Group.
It also has responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management systems, including IT risks, ensuring that management are identifying, managing and reporting risks appropriately, details of which can be found on pages 57 to 61.
At least once during each financial year the committee meets with the internal and the external auditors, separately, without executive management present.
This provides an additional opportunity for an open exchange of views and feedback.
The committee operates under formal terms of reference and these are reviewed annually.
The committee considers that it has appropriately discharged its responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference during the year and has operated in compliance with relevant legal, regulatory and other responsibilities.
Specific matters covered by the committee during the year included: reviewing the financial information and integrity of the Mondi Group financial announcements, in particular, the half-yearly results and full year results, including reports from the Group financial controller and the external auditors on those results and recommending them to the Boards: considering, and recommending to the Boards, the implementation of significant accounting policies for the 2012 financial year: considering the potential impact of new accounting pronouncements and receiving updates on technical changes: oversight of the Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2012, in particular the evaluation of all significant judgements and reporting decisions affecting the report and the integrity of the financial statements, considering the assurance provided by the DLC sustainable development committee regarding the sustainability reporting and recommending the report for approval to the Boards: reviewing and approving the external audit plan, the proposed audit fees for the 2012 year end and the engagement letters: reviewing the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditors and considering their reappointment for recommendation to the Boards: monitoring the risk management policy, plan and risk tolerance levels and the effectiveness of the risk management process, including an annual identification and review of all key Group risks and a more detailed review of at least three of those risks at each meeting: and specifically reviewing information technology risk management: monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control: reviewing the non-audit services policy and the services approved in accordance with the policy: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of internal audit activities, which included: a review of the internal audit charter: audits carried out, the results thereof and managements response: the programme for 2012 and 2013: reports received via Speakout the Groups confidential reporting hotline for all stakeholders : and reports on fraud: 72 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 72 2013 03 04 3:00 PM DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance reviewing the effectiveness and experience of the chief financial officer and the finance function: reviewing the competition compliance programme: and reviewing elements of the Groups code of business ethics reserved for review by the committee and the implementation of the business integrity policy.
The DLC audit committee oversees the relationship with the external auditors: is responsible for the review of their appointment, reappointment and remuneration: reviews the effectiveness of the external audit process: and ensures that the objectivity and independence of the external auditors is maintained.
The committee reviewed the audit plan, in particular for 2012 discussing with Deloitte the audit scope, audit risks, materiality, goodwill impairment review and revenue recognition.
The committee has focused their review on the material acquisitions and disposals effected during the year and the resulting change to the Groups segmental reporting, which were areas identified by Deloitte as primary audit risks.
Representatives from Deloitte report to the committee on their independence and objectivity and the mechanisms employed to ensure this is maintained.
In considering the quality and effectiveness of the external audit, the committee has taken into account feedback received from management involved with the audit, in particular the chief financial officer and Group financial controller.
In addition the committee reviewed directly with Deloitte the work undertaken against the agreed plan, questioning any deviations from the plan and the reasons for this.
Of particular concern to the committee is the assessment of the way in which certain key accounting and audit judgements have been made and the auditors report on the system of internal control.
These are reported on by Deloitte to the committee which then has the opportunity to question them on their responses and findings.
There are also Group policies in place regarding the employment of ex-audit staff and the provision of non-audit services.
The committee, having considered all relevant matters, has concluded that it is satisfied that auditor independence, objectivity and effectiveness have been maintained.
Deloitte were appointed as Mondis external auditors at the time of the demerger of Mondi from Anglo American plc in July 2007 and are familiar with the reporting complexities arising from the Groups dual listed company structure.
For the 2012 reporting year a new senior audit partner has been in place.
As such, the DLC audit committee does not consider that it would be appropriate at this time to put the audit out to tender, but will continue to keep this under review, anticipating that it may be appropriate to put the audit out to tender ahead of the next rotation of the senior audit partner in 2016.
The committee confirmed that Deloitte & Touche is included in the JSE list of accredited auditors.
Following these considerations the committee made a recommendation to, which was accepted by, the Boards that resolutions to reappoint Deloitte be proposed at the annual general meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc, to be held in May 2013.
A policy that formalises the arrangements regarding the provision of non-audit services provided by the auditors of Mondi Limited and of Mondi plc to the Group sets out the procedures for the pre-approval of such services.
All non-audit services provided by the auditors are pre-approved by either the chief financial officer or the DLC audit committee chairman under delegated authorities from the committee.
The policy also details those non-audit services that are prohibited, including financial information systems design, internal audit outsourcing and actuarial valuation services.
Reports are presented to the committee at each meeting detailing any non-audit services approved since the previous meeting, to enable the committee to monitor the provision of these services to ensure that they do not impair the external auditors independence and objectivity.
The breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditors, including the split between audit and non-audit fees, is included in note 3 on page 125 to the financial statements.
The heads of internal audit have direct access and responsibility to the DLC audit committee and work closely with the committee in co-ordination with the external auditors.
The committee has responsibility for the appointment and removal of the heads of internal audit the equivalent of the chief audit executive as envisaged by King III.
The internal audit team plan and undertake audits of the businesses to ensure that the controls operating in the businesses are appropriate, effective and comply with Mondi controls and procedures.
The committee reviews the activities of the internal audit function at each meeting.
The internal audit reports include details of audits carried out, the results and managements response to matters raised during the audits, and fraud and Speakout cases.
Maintaining sound oversight and control of activities through the use of internal audit reviews is considered by the committee to be a key element of its work.
The structure and resources of the internal audit function are also regularly reviewed.
The last external review of the internal audit function was carried out in 2010 by .
That review concluded positively on the effectiveness of the internal audit function while making some recommendations to further improve on this.
Since that review the committee has monitored progress with the implementation of the recommendations.
The committee has concluded that the heads of internal audit provide effective leadership of the internal audit function which remains effective in carrying out its remit.
indd 73 2013 03 04 3:00 PM Corporate governance report continued DLC nominations committee With no changes to the composition of the Boards during 2012 the primary focus of the committee was on the continuing evaluation and monitoring of board performance, the ongoing evaluation of the skill set of the Boards and ensuring that the challenges of succession are being addressed.
David Williams Chairman of the DLC nominations committee DLC nominations Committee member committee Members since four meetings Stephen Harris March 2011 4 Imogen Mkhize January 2008 4 John Nicholas October 2009 4 Anne Quinn May 2007 4 Cyril Ramaphosa May 2007 4 David Williams chairman May 2007 4 The DLC nominations committee operates on a Groupwide basis.
The committee meets periodically as required to discharge its duties, but a minimum of twice per annum, and met four times during the year.
The chief executive officer is invited to attend meetings and provides information to support the work of the committee, in particular with regard to succession planning.
The committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Boards on the composition of each board and committee and on retirements and appointments of additional and replacement directors.
It ensures that the required balance of skills, experience and knowledge appropriate for the Mondi dual listed company structure are maintained.
While one of the joint chairmen chairs this committee, he is not permitted to chair meetings during discussions regarding his performance or when the appointment of a successor is being considered.
The committee considered the process for the board evaluation and decided that an internal review would be conducted in 2012.
There had been no material concerns raised during the 2011 evaluation process or that had arisen during 2012 that it was considered would warrant an external perspective and review.
The outcome of the review, as explained in more detail above, was considered by the committee and an action plan recommended to the Boards.
A number of regular matters were reviewed by the committee in accordance with its terms of reference.
In particular, succession planning for the executives and senior management was debated and consideration was given to the time commitment required from each director.
The presentation of the succession plans are broken down by business unit and set out details of the current role holder together with those persons who may be ready in the near term, three and five years time to fill the role.
When considering the succession plans, thought is also given to meaningful cross business unit and division transfers.
In 2012 the review also considered diversity within the senior management teams and the pipeline of successors.
Despite changes of non-executive directors at the end of 2009 and in 2011, four of the six non-executives, including the joint chairmen, were appointed in 2007 at the time of the demerger of Mondi from Anglo American plc.
Non-executive succession in particular therefore remains a key focus area for the committee with consideration being given to ensuring the Boards have the appropriate skills and experience to continue to manage the challenges of the Group.
The committee continued to be of the view that, in line with best practice, all directors should stand for re-election at the annual general meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc.
As noted above, Cyril Ramaphosa has notified the Boards that he will not stand for re-election at the annual general meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc on 3 May 2013.
The process of finding a replacement for Cyril has commenced in line with the procedure agreed by the Boards.
74 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 74 2013 03 04 3:00 PM DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance Appointments to the Boards There have been no changes to the composition of the Boards during 2012.
The Boards have an established procedure for the appointment of new directors that is managed by the DLC nominations committee.
In accordance with this procedure the DLC nominations committee is required to review the composition of the Boards and consider the skills, background and experience required.
Potential candidates from a variety of sources may be considered, usually initially by the joint chairmen and senior independent director, with a short list of candidates interviewed before narrowing the search to one or two potential candidates who would then be seen by other non-executive and executive directors.
Reports would then be made to the DLC nominations committee on each of the possible candidates.
The committee would consider the relative strength of candidates before recommending an appointment to the Boards.
On appointment each non-executive director receives letters of appointment from each of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc setting out, among other things, their term of appointment, the expected time commitment for their duties to Mondi and details of any DLC committees of which they are a member.
Non-executive directors are initially appointed for a three year term, although Mondi now follows governance best practice with all directors standing for re-election by shareholders at each annual general meeting.
Diversity As a global organisation operating in 30 countries, diversity is encouraged and Mondi is committed to the fair and equitable treatment of all, irrespective of origin, race or gender.
Mondi is committed to employing, empowering and developing competent people with the necessary potential required to expand their careers and become valuable participants in sustaining its competitive business advantage.
As the management of people is seen as a function and responsibility of line management, so is the creation of a culture that embraces diversity.
In South Africa we are committed to making a positive contribution to the process of transformation.
We have taken active steps to meet the requirements of broad-based black economic empowerment B-BBEE, including establishing transformation forums in our South African operations to allow our employees to discuss equity and training-related issues and ideas.
In line with our philosophy of encouraging diversity and excluding discrimination, we provide equal opportunity for men and women in the Group.
At the end of December 2012, 20% of our employees were women 2011: 21% and 16% of our senior managers were women 2011: 18%.
We also have two female directors representing 22% of the Boards.
While our aim will be to maintain this level of female representation going forward, it remains important that the composition of the Boards includes the right mix of skills, knowledge and experience and it may not always be appropriate to consider diversity on the Boards only in terms of gender.
The Boards have continued to monitor the Mondi talent pool and have considered gender diversity performance indicators.
Specific recruitment commitments with a percentage of female candidates at long and short list stage for each management function in accordance with industry standards have been agreed.
A working group considers the needs of women in business and how best Mondi can support their career development and provide a more family friendly and flexible working environment.
The establishment of a kindergarten at the Mondi corporate office in Vienna, Austria is one example of putting these proposals into practice.
Diversity has become an integral part of the Groups leadership programmes, with new training modules at the Mondi Academy such as Intercultural Diversity & International Business Competence contributing to a wider understanding of diversity within Mondi.
There are also new development programmes targeted at female employees and an increasing involvement with universities to encourage female graduates to consider careers within the Group.
During 2013 it is planned to communicate more widely within the Group the flexible working programme and supporting initiatives.
The Boards will also be evaluating the content of a diversity policy.
While it is recognised that there is more work to do Mondi believes that continually sharing best practice, networking and sharing experiences both internally and externally we are making progress.
indd 75 2013 03 04 3:00 PM Corporate governance report continued DLC remuneration committee Committee member DLC remuneration Members since committee four meetings Stephen Harris March 2011 4 Imogen Mkhize May 2007 4 Anne Quinn chairman May 2007 4 David Williams May 2007 4 The DLC remuneration committee operates on a Group-wide basis.
The committee met four times during the year and plans to meet four times in 2013 with additional meetings convened as required.
The committee has responsibility for making recommendations to each board on the Groups policy on the remuneration of senior management, for the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of the remuneration of the joint chairmen and of specific remuneration packages for each of the executive directors and members of senior management, including pension rights and any compensation payments.
In addition, the committee is responsible for the implementation of employee share plans.
The committees full report on directors remuneration, including details of the Groups remuneration policies and practices, is set out on pages 80 to 94.
DLC sustainable development committee DLC sustainable Committee member development committee Members since six meetings Stephen Harris chairman March 2011 6 David Hathorn May 2007 6 Anne Quinn August 2009 6 The DLC sustainable development committee operates on a Group-wide basis.
The committee met six times during the year and plans to meet six times in 2013.
The committee has responsibility for overseeing the Groups policy, targets and performance on safety, health, the environment, social responsibility, other sustainable development matters and business ethics.
During the year the committee reviewed the Groups key sustainable development policies, monitored performance against environmental targets, received detailed safety reports including details of major incidents within the Group and monitored the senior managements response to such incidents.
A summary report from the directors on the Groups sustainability practices is set out in the Sustainable development review on pages 31 to 43 and further details, including a full review of Mondis sustainability activities and progress in 2012, can be found on the Mondi Group website.
DLC executive committee The DLC executive committee operates on a Group-wide basis.
The members of the DLC executive committee are detailed on page 65.
The committee is chaired by David Hathorn and met twelve times during the year, with nine meetings scheduled for 2013.
The DLC executive committee is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group and its business operations within the limits set by the Boards, with particular focus on financial, operational and safety performance, together with policy implementation in line with the Groups strategy agreed by the Boards.
76 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 76 2013 03 04 3:00 PM DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance Mondi Limited social and ethics committee In compliance with Regulation 43 of the South African Companies Act, 2012 saw the establishment of the social and ethics committee for Mondi Limited.
The focus during this time was on understanding the requirements of the Act relating to the committee, and getting a proper understanding of the policies, practices and procedures currently in place in Mondi Limited in respect of the remit of the committee.
Imogen Mkhize Chairman of the Mondi Limited social and ethics committee Mondi Limited social and Committee member ethics committee Members since two meetings Stephen Harris February 2012 2 David Hathorn February 2012 2 Imogen Mkhize chairman February 2012 2 Following changes in South African company law the committee was established as a statutory committee of Mondi Limited.
The committee met twice during the year and has two meetings scheduled for 2013.
The committee has responsibility for monitoring Mondi Limiteds activities with regard to matters relating to social and economic development, good corporate citizenship, the environment, health and public safety, including the impact of Mondi Limiteds activities and of its products and services, consumer relationships, including its advertising, public relations and compliance with consumer protection laws, as well as labour and employment.
There is a certain amount of overlap between the responsibilities of the committee and that of the DLC audit committee and the DLC sustainable development committee.
In fulfilling its duties the committee has reference to the deliberations of the above respective committees, and to reports specifically requested from management.
The committee operates under formal terms of reference.
During the short term of its existence the committee performed a high level review of Mondi Limiteds current policies, practices and procedures, as well as the means of monitoring and reporting thereon, relating to: the 10 principles set out in the United Nations Global Compact Principles: the OECD recommendations regarding corruption: the South African Employment Equity Act: the South African Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act: the promotion of equality, prevention of unfair discrimination, and reduction of corruption: the contribution to development of the communities in which its activities are predominately conducted or within which its products or services are predominantly marketed: sponsorships, donations and charitable giving: the environment, health and public safety: consumer relationships: labour and employment, including Mondi Limiteds standing in terms of decent work and working conditions, its employment relationships and its contribution toward the educational development of its employees.
The committee was satisfied that Mondi Limited has sufficient policies, procedures and practices in place to adequately address the matters identified in its terms of reference.
The committee has developed a work plan which will ensure that it can properly fulfill its monitoring responsibilities on an ongoing basis.
indd 77 2013 03 04 3:00 PM Corporate governance report continued Communication with stakeholders Ensuring that shareholders, be they institutional, private or employee shareholders, receive accurate and timely information about the Groups financial performance, operational and development activities, sufficient for them to make an informed judgement regarding their investments, is considered by the Boards to be extremely important.
To this end a variety of communication mechanisms are used, with the Mondi Group website providing a range of financial and business information about the Group, including an archive of past announcements and share price information as well as the Groups sustainability activities and practices.
During the year the chief executive officer and chief financial officer have continued a programme of regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, analysts and fund managers, based around the Groups financial reporting calendar.
Investors are also regularly offered the opportunity to speak directly with the joint chairmen.
Periodically site visits are arranged to help increase the knowledge and understanding of the Group.
Summaries of the feedback from these discussions, meetings and any site visits are presented to the Boards.
The Boards also receive feedback directly from brokers and advisers which enables them to gain a clear understanding of the views and opinions of those interested in the Group.
All contact with investors and other interested parties is strictly controlled through the application of Group guidelines to ensure that no price sensitive information is made available on a selective basis and that all shareholders are treated equally.
Financial reports, trading updates and news about the business operations are available to all shareholders on the Mondi Group website.
The Group head of sustainable development maintains a dialogue on socially responsible investment through focused briefings with interested investors and stakeholders.
Throughout the year responses are given to letters and e-mails received from shareholders and other interested parties on a variety of subjects.
Shareholders may choose to receive financial reports and other communications from the Group via electronic means.
Facilities are also available for the electronic submission of proxy votes for general meetings.
Furthermore, shareholders can use the opportunity of the annual general meetings to question the directors about Mondis activities and prospects.
During 2012, Mondi did not receive any requests for access to records under the South African Promotion of Access to Information Act 2000.
Dealing in securities The Boards have adopted a share dealing code for dealing in securities of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc which is based on regulatory and governance best practice in South Africa and the UK.
The code sets out the restrictions placed on directors, senior management and other key employees with regard to their share dealing to ensure that they do not abuse their access to information about the Group pending its public release and availability to shareholders and other interested parties.
The code is reviewed regularly and updated as required to ensure continued compliance with regulation and best practice.
All dealings by directors and persons discharging managerial responsibilities and their connected persons are announced to the JSE and the LSE when they occur.
Details of the directors interests in the shares of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc can be found in the remuneration report on pages 90 to 93.
78 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 78 2013 03 04 3:00 PM DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance Business ethics The Boards have adopted a code of business ethics, which applies throughout the Group and sets out five fundamental principles that govern the way in which Mondi and its employees conduct business.
Three of the principles are monitored and reviewed by the DLC sustainable development committee human rights, stakeholders and sustainability and two by the DLC audit committee legal compliance and honesty and integrity.
The code incorporates the requirement for the Group to comply with all applicable laws and regulations.
Although the Group does not have a single compliance function the legal teams of each division, together with the company secretaries of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc, have oversight of compliance, including consideration of the application of non-binding rules, codes and standards.
Regular reports are presented to the Boards, or relevant committees, on compliance matters.
The detailed application of the principles of the code is documented in Mondis policies and procedures, in particular the business integrity policy and the sustainable development policy.
The directors believe that the Group has robust compliance systems and procedures in place in relation to the code.
The directors are not aware of any material non-compliance with the code.
The code is available on the Mondi Group website.
Mondi has not been engaged in any legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly practices during the year.
Mondi has also not received any material fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations.
Speakout The Group has a confidential reporting hotline operated by an independent third party called Speakout.
Speakout, monitored by the DLC audit committee, enables employees, customers, suppliers, managers or other stakeholders, on a confidential basis, to raise concerns about conduct which is considered to be contrary to Mondis values.
It makes communication channels available to any person in the world who has information about unethical practice in the Groups operations.
During 2012, 65 Speakout messages were received covering a number of areas.
Reports were kept strictly confidential and referred to appropriate line managers or other more senior personnel for resolution.
Annual general meetings The annual general meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc will be held on 3 May 2013 in Johannesburg and London respectively.
It is expected that all directors and, in particular, the chairmen of the principal committees will be present.
Separate resolutions will be proposed for each item of business to be considered at the annual general meetings with the voting at the meetings conducted by polls.
The voting results will be announced as soon as practicable following the close of both meetings and will be made available on the Mondi Group website.
The notices of the annual general meetings, which include explanations of each resolution, are contained in separate circulars which are sent to all shareholders in advance of the meetings, in accordance with the corporate governance codes of South Africa and the UK.
