com Group PLC 41 Corporate Governance Annual Report 2012 Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committee presents a separate report in During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed the relation to the financial year ended 31 December 2012. balance of skills, independence, knowledge and experience of the Board together with the size, diversity, structure and composition of the Board, and reviewed the succession plans Composition of the Nomination Committee for the Board.
The Nomination Committee comprises the four Non-Executive Directors, Gerald Corbett Chairman, Michael Wemms, Rob At the invitation of the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, Rowley and Bruce Carnegie-Brown.
Rob Rowley, Michael the Chief Executive officer, Human Resources Director and Wemms and Bruce Carnegie-Brown are considered by the Company Secretary may attend meetings of the Nomination Board to be independent.
Gerald Corbett was considered by Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the the Board to be independent on appointment.
The members of the Nomination the members of the Nomination Committee are set out on Committee can, where they judge it necessary to discharge their pages 30 and 31. responsibilities, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Operation of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee met on two occasions during the The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are year.
Details of the attendance at Nomination Committee published on the investor relations section of the Groups meetings are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on website at www.
com and are available in page 37. hard copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
The Nomination Committees duties include: This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: t Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board.
t Considering the size, structure and composition of the Gerald Corbett Board.
t Where necessary, considering and recommending to the Chairman of the Nomination Committee 4 March 2013 Board persons who are appropriate for appointment as Directors.
t Ensuring that succession planning for the Board is in place.
The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
The process involves the Nomination Committee interviewing suitable candidates who are proposed by either existing Board members or by an external search rm.
Careful consideration is given to ensure proposed appointees have enough time available to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is maintained.
When the Nomination Committee has identied a suitable candidate, the Chairman of the Nomination Committee will make a recommendation to the Board with the Board making the final decision.
When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director will chair the Nomination Committee instead of the Chairman.
