com Group PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Report The Board of Directors Board of MoneySupermarket.
com relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could Group PLC Company is committed to high standards of appear to affect, their judgement.
corporate governance and supports the principles laid down in The UK Corporate Governance Code published in June 2010 by Conicts of interest the Financial Reporting Council Code.
This Corporate The Companys Articles of Association were amended at the Governance Report describes how the principles of the Code 2008 Annual General Meeting, in line with the Companies Act are applied by the Company and reports on the Companys 2006, to allow the Board to authorise potential conicts of compliance with the Codes provisions.
interest that may arise and to impose limits or conditions, as appropriate, when giving any authorisation.
Any decision of the Compliance Board to authorise a conict of interest is only effective if it is The Board considers that the Company has complied with the agreed without the conicted Directors voting or without their provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December votes being counted and in making such a decision, the 2012 and to the date of this report except as set out below.
Directors must act in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to promote the success of the Company.
Board of Directors The Company has established a procedure for the appropriate The Board currently has eight members, comprising the Non-Executive Chairman, Gerald Corbett, three Independent authorisation to be sought prior to appointment of any new Director or prior to a new conict arising and for the regular Non-Executive Directors, Michael Wemms, Rob Rowley and Bruce Carnegie-Brown, and four Executive Directors, Simon review of actual or potential conicts of interest.
During the year, this procedure was adhered to and operated effectively.
Nixon, Paul Doughty, Peter Plumb and Graham Donoghue.
Michael Wemms has been designated as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Relationship Agreement The single largest shareholder of the Company is Simon Nixon.
The Board normally meets on at least eight occasions in each The Company and Simon Nixon entered into a relationship financial year including a two day strategy conference.
To enable agreement on 11 July 2007 to regulate the ongoing relationship the Non-Executive Directors to more freely discuss the between them Relationship Agreement.
The principal purpose performance of the Groups management, the Chairman meets of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Company is with the Non-Executive Directors at least once each year capable of carrying on its business independently of Simon without the Executive Directors present.
Nixon, and that transactions and relationships with Simon Nixon are at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
The Board considers that all the Directors are able to devote sufficient time to their duties as Directors.
Biographies of the The Company and Simon Nixon have agreed in the Relationship Board are set out on pages 30 and 31 including details of the Agreement that Simon Nixon is entitled to appoint such number significant commitments of the Chairman.
The Board is satisfied including himself as a Director one Non-Executive Director for that these appointments do not conict with the Chairmans as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 15% of the ability to carry out his duties and responsibilities effectively for ordinary shares of the Company, two Non-Executive Directors the Group.
for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 30% of the ordinary shares of the Company and three Non-Executive The Board has reviewed the recommendations of the Davies Directors for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least Report as part of a wider diversity discussion and has endorsed 50% of the ordinary shares of the Company.
The Relationship a Group wide Diversity Policy.
The Board supports the aims, Agreement will terminate if Simon Nixon holds less than 15% of objectives and recommendations of the Davies Report and in the ordinary shares of the Company.
line with the Code will continue to make Board appointments on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the The Relationship Agreement also includes a protocol to be benets of diversity on the Board, including gender.
observed in relation to any Non-Executive Director appointed by Simon Nixon to deal with potential conicts of interest and the provision of condential information.
Independence Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors bring wide and As at the date of this report, Simon Nixon had not appointed any varied commercial experience to Board and Committee deliberations.
The practice of the Company is to appoint Non-Executive Directors pursuant to his rights in the Relationship Agreement.
Non-Executive Directors for specified terms of three years, subject to a maximum of up to 12 months notice within that period and also subject to re-election and to Companies Act Division of responsibilities provisions relating to the removal of a Director.
Each of the The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive officer are not Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, currently combined, ensuring a clear division of responsibility at the head holds a letter of appointment reecting this.
The division of roles and responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive officer is clearly The Board considers that Gerald Corbett was independent on established, set out in writing and has been approved by the appointment as Chairman and considers Michael Wemms, Board.
Rob Rowley and Bruce Carnegie-Brown to be independent, being independent in character and judgement and free from MoneySupermarket.
com Group PLC 37 Corporate Governance Annual Report 2012 The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, setting its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
He ensures effective communication with shareholders and that the Board is aware of the views of major shareholders.
He facilitates both the contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive officer is responsible for the day to day running of the Group, carrying out agreed strategy and implementing specic Board decisions.
Role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the Groups performance and meets regularly to review the operation and performance of the Group.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision making and matters delegated to Committees of the Board which are available on the investor relations section of the Groups website at www.
These include the Groups strategy: business plan and annual budget: acquisitions and disposals: and other major investments and capital projects.
There is an established procedure for the preparation and approval each year by the Board of business plans and the annual budget.
The Board receives reports on performance against the business plan and budget and reviews any significant variances each time it meets.
This information enables business performance to be monitored, evaluated, discussed and challenged where necessary and enables informed, sound decisions to be made.
At least one of the Boards regular meetings each year is devoted to reviewing and agreeing the Groups strategic direction.
Board Committees The Board has three principal Committees Audit, Nomination and Remuneration to which various matters are delegated.
The Committees all have formal written terms of reference that have been approved by the Board and are published on the investor relations section of the Groups website at www.
They are also available in hard copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
Details of the work of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are given in the reports of those Committees on pages 40 to 52.
The Directors who served on each of the Committees during the year are set out below: Committee Chairman Member Member Member Audit Rob Rowley Gerald Corbett Michael Wemms Bruce Carnegie-Brown Nomination Gerald Corbett Michael Wemms Rob Rowley Bruce Carnegie-Brown Remuneration Bruce Carnegie-Brown Gerald Corbett Rob Rowley Michael Wemms Board and Committee attendance The attendance record of the Directors at scheduled Board and Committee meetings during the year is set out in the following table.
The Board scheduled nine meetings during the year and ad hoc conference calls and committee meetings were also convened to deal with specic matters which required attention between scheduled meetings.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors Simon Nixon 9 Peter Plumb 9 Paul Doughty 9 Graham Donoghue 9 1 David Osborne 9 Non-Executive Directors Gerald Corbett 9226 Michael Wemms 9326 Rob Rowley 9326 Bruce Carnegie-Brown 8 3 1 5 Total number of scheduled meetings held 9326 1 David Osborne ceased to be a Director of the Company with effect from 31 December 2012.
The Executive Directors of the Company may attend meetings of the Committees at the invitation of the Chairman of the respective Committee.
com Group PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Report continued Directors The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible for The Companys Articles of Association require that new Directors appointed by the Board must retire and submit ensuring that Board procedures are followed and providing advice to the Board on corporate governance.
Both the themselves for election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
The Companys appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
Articles of Association further require that all Directors must retire and submit themselves for re-election at least every three Directors can, where they judge it necessary to discharge their years.
In accordance with the Code, all of the Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, responsibilities as Directors, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
No such advice was sought will offer themselves for re-election.
by any Director during the year.
Directors have the right to require that any concerns they may have are recorded in the The Company provides Directors and ofcers insurance cover appropriate Board or Committee minutes.
for the benefit of Directors in respect of claims arising in the performance of their duties.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of its Directors and the Company Secretary Shareholder relations to the extent permitted by law and its Articles of Association.
The Board is committed to establishing and maintaining good communications with shareholders.
Senior executives, including the Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer regularly Board evaluation meet with analysts and institutional shareholders to keep them The formal annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, informed of significant developments and to develop an its Committees and individual Directors was undertaken during understanding of their views which are discussed with the the year.
This consisted of an internally run exercise led by the Board.
Formal presentations are given to analysts and Chairman with the assistance of the Company Secretary.
The shareholders covering the full year and half year results and the appraisal questionnaire used in connection with the process Company seeks to maintain a dialogue with the various bodies was wide-ranging and based on questions outlined in the Code, which monitor the Companys governance policies and covering both Board and Committee performance.
The Company Secretary generally deals with considered that an internally run exercise was most appropriate questions from individual shareholders.
in the current year but agreed annually to give consideration to whether an externally facilitated evaluation may be appropriate.
The results and results presentations, together with all information reported to the market via the regulatory information The appraisal output is used to identify strengths and service, press releases and other shareholder information, are development areas and confirmed that the Board and its published on the investor relations section of the Groups Committees were operating effectively.
Individual performance website at www.
com to be viewed and was also appraised, based on one-to-one interviews with the accessed by all shareholders.
Chairman, or in the case of the Chairman, with the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director following consultation The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Michael with each of the other Directors.
Wemms, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Development Executive officer or Chief Financial officer has failed to resolve, The Chairman and Company Secretary are responsible for or for which such contact is inappropriate.
preparing and co-ordinating an induction programme for newly appointed Directors, including business related presentations by All shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions at the senior management below Board level, as well as guidance on forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Chairmen of the their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees will be Company.
Every Director has access to appropriate training as available to answer questions at that meeting.
Shareholders may required following their appointment and is encouraged to also contact the Chairman, the Chief Executive officer or, if develop their understanding of the Group.
more appropriate, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director to raise any issue with one or all of the Non-Executive Information Directors of the Company.
Board members are given appropriate documentation in a timely manner in advance of each Board or Committee meeting.
This The Company will prepare separate resolutions on each normally includes a detailed report on current trading and substantially separate issue at the forthcoming Annual General comprehensive papers on matters where the Board or Meeting.
The result of the vote on each resolution will be Committee will be required to make a decision or give its published on the Groups website after the Annual General approval.
Specic business related presentations are given by Meeting and will be announced via the regulatory information senior management below Board level when appropriate.
com Group PLC 39 Corporate Governance Annual Report 2012 Internal control and risk management Share capital The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal Details of the Companys share capital are set out in the control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Directors Report on pages 32 and 33.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and Compliance with the Code can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against The Directors consider that during the financial year ended material misstatement or loss.
31 December 2012 and to the date of this report, the Company complied with the Code except as follows: The key features of the Groups system of internal control and risk management are: B.
1.2 During the year at least half the Board, excluding the t A comprehensive annual business planning and budgeting Chairman, did not comprise Independent Non-Executive process, requiring Board approval, against which the Groups Directors.
The Board has commenced a process to appoint an actual performance and any significant variances are additional Non-Executive Director which it expects to conclude regularly reviewed by the Board.
during 2013. t A schedule of matters reserved for the Boards approval to ensure it maintains control over appropriate strategic, E. 1.1 As a result of regular feedback provided to the Board by financial, organisational, compliance and capital investment the Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer following issues.
their dialogue with major shareholders, the Senior Independent t An organisation structure with clearly dened lines of Non-Executive Director believes he is aware of the views of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Unless requested by major shareholders, t Regular reviews of the key risks facing the Group to ensure the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director does not attend key risks are being identied, evaluated and appropriately meetings with them.
managed, having regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
The management of risk is undertaken by the This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf Group Risk Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive by: officer, which reviews the Group risk register at least twice each year, and reports its findings to the Audit Committee.
t An annual two day strategy conference to discuss and Darren Drabble approve the Groups strategic direction, plans and objectives Company Secretary and the risks to achieving them.
4 March 2013 t An internal audit function providing assurance over key risks, processes and controls.
In addition, the Audit Committee receives: t Reports from the external auditors in relation to the Financial Statements and the material financial reporting judgements contained in them.
t Reports from the internal and external auditors in relation to the system of internal control and the reviews by the internal and external auditors of that system.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management during the year.
The Board considers that in the context of the control environment described above, the Groups system of internal control and risk management is effective and satisfactory.
