com Group PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report 2012 Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee presents a separate report in relation to the Internal control and risk management financial year ended 31 December 2012.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit Composition of the Audit Committee Committee monitors and reviews each year the effectiveness of, The Audit Committee comprises the four Non-Executive and the framework for, the Groups system of internal control and Directors, Rob Rowley Chairman, Gerald Corbett, Michael risk management.
Rob Rowley, Michael The Audit Committee undertook a review of the effectiveness of, Wemms and Bruce Carnegie-Brown are considered by the Board to be independent.
Gerald Corbett was considered by the Board and the framework for, the Groups system of internal control and to be independent on appointment.
Biographies of the members risk management, including financial, operational and compliance of the Audit Committee are set out on pages 30 and 31.
Rob controls during the year.
In addition to this review, the external Rowley is a qualied accountant and was formerly finance auditors provided the Audit Committee with comprehensive reports of the results of their controls testing as part of the external audit.
director of Reuters plc and chairman of the audit committee at Prudential plc.
He is currently chairman of the audit committees at On a half yearly basis, the Audit Committee also reviewed the key Intu Properties plc and Taylor Wimpey plc.
The Board is satisfied risks facing the Group and the actions being taken by management that Rob Rowley has recent and relevant financial experience.
to mitigate and manage them.
During the year the Audit Committee considered the need to Operation of the Audit Committee establish an internal audit function and concluded that the Group is The Audit Committee met on three occasions during the year.
Details of the attendance at Audit Committee meetings are set out now of a size and complexity that requires an internal audit function.
Accordingly, an internal audit function was established in the Corporate Governance Report on page 37. during 2012 and began to report to the Audit Committee during the The Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial officer and Company year on the key risks facing the Group and the results of their Secretary, together with the external auditors, will normally attend internal control testing.
meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The external auditors are regularly invited by the Audit Committee Review of the work of the external auditors to advise them of any matters which they consider should be Subject to the annual appointment of the external auditors by brought to the Audit Committees attention without the Executive shareholders, the Audit Committee regularly reviews the Directors present.
The external auditors may also request a relationship between the Group and the external auditors.
This meeting with the Audit Committee if they consider it necessary.
review includes an assessment of their performance, costeffectiveness, objectivity and independence.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit Committee.
The members of the Audit Committee can, where they judge it The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent relationship is maintained between the Group and the external professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Group has implemented a policy of controlling the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors in order to The Audit Committees duties include: ensure that their objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
This t Monitoring the financial reporting process.
control is exercised by ensuring that all non-audit services are t Monitoring the statutory audit of the Groups Financial Statements.
subject to the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
During the year, t Reviewing the Groups Financial Statements and the material the Company continued to engage its external auditors to provide financial reporting judgements contained in them.
non-audit services, including the provision of advice in connection t Monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal control with tax and acquisition activities, reecting their knowledge and and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee also continued t Reviewing and monitoring the independence of the external with the appointment of other accountancy rms to provide certain auditors and the provision of additional services to the Group.
non-audit services to the Group in connection with tax and actuarial t Advising the Board on the appointment and removal of the advice and anticipates that this will continue in 2013. external auditors and the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee, having considered the external auditors t Reviewing the Groups whistle blowing procedures.
performance during their period in ofce, recommends their re-appointment.
A full breakdown of the audit and non-audit related The Audit Committee undertakes its activities in line with an annual fees is set out in note 5 to the Group Financial Statements on page work plan.
The Audit Committee agrees the scope of the audit 67.
The Audit Committee discussed the level of fees and work and discusses the results of the full year audit and half year considered them appropriate given the current size of the Group review each year.
and the acquisition activities undertaken during the year.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the level and scope of non-audit The terms of reference of the Audit Committee arepublished services undertaken by the external auditors does not impair their on the investor relations section of the Groups website at independence and objectivity.
com and are available in hard copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the Groups whistle blowing procedures to ensure arrangements are in place to enable employees to raise concerns about possible malpractice or Rob Rowley wrongdoing by the Group or any of its employees on a condential Chairman of the Audit Committee basis.
This includes arrangements to proportionately and 4 March 2013 independently investigate such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
