Key reSOurceS anD cOntractual relatiOnSHipS Morgan crucible has built up significant Employees Both of Morgan crucibles Divisions have resources and benefits from contractual and Morgan crucibles most important resource a technical Director, and have research and other relationships with multiple stakeholders, is its people and the Group employs a highly development capabilities variously located including customers and suppliers, employees skilled and qualified workforce.
One of the at Divisional centres of excellence, which is and joint venture partners.
these relationships Groups strategic priorities is finding, keeping diffused through the business in the form of have been built up over many years to support and developing the right people.
Further details are Morgan crucibles competitive positioning in employees stay with the Group for their whole included in the review of operations for both the key markets which the Group serves.
careers, as is highlighted on page 27.
Morgan Divisions on pages 10 to 17. crucible places great emphasis on recruitment as is described below, no one contractual and training and the Groups policies and Manufacturing capabilities or other relationship is considered essential to performance in these areas are set out on Over many years Morgan crucible has the business of the Group as a whole.
Further pages 26 and 27. invested heavily in manufacturing capacity and information on the Groups stakeholder technology to develop its capability to serve relationships is included elsewhere in this Succession plans are in place covering key its chosen markets worldwide.
in recent years Business review, including in the corporate management and technical roles and as such the Group has developed and extended responsibility section on pages 18 to 27. no individual employee is considered essential its manufacturing presence and capabilities as referred to in the Directors report to the business of the Group as a whole.
in china, india and latin america to meet on page 41, a number of commercial and customer needs in both local and global contractual agreements include change of the executive Directors contracts and the markets.
this investment supports the control provisions which come into effect terms and conditions of appointment of the Groups strategic priority of having a culture in the event of a change in ownership of the non-executive Directors are referred to of operational excellence and cost efficiency.
on page 54 and are available for inspection prior to the 2013 annual General Meeting Joint venture partners in accordance with its goal, aim and strategic and at the companys registered office.
in a number of territories around the world, priorities, the Group continues to invest in the the Group has established joint ventures with areas detailed below to maintain its leading Research and development, local partners.
Many of these joint ventures market positions.
patents and intellectual property have been in operation for many years: Morgan crucibles goal is to continue to however, no individual joint venture agreement Commercial relationships, market be one of the worlds very best advanced is considered to be essential to the business of position and reputation materials companies, supported by the strategic Morgan crucible as a whole.
Morgan crucible is generally ranked number priority of offering high added-value to the one or two in its chosen market segments.
the Groups Divisions use Banking and other financial the Group is a world-leader in advanced their extensive knowledge base, particularly in relationships ceramic and composite materials.
the the areas of advanced ceramic and composite Details of significant banking and other financial company was founded in 1856 and has materials, to develop new products and relationships are referred to on page 41 in the a worldwide reputation.
services to meet customer needs and to Directors report.
However, no one banking differentiate themselves in the markets or financial relationship is considered to be Morgan crucibles businesses provide they serve.
essential to the performance and value products and services to other companies of the company.
and the Group has developed close working Morgan crucible benefits from technological relationships with many of its customers know-how and other forms of intellectual and suppliers, and collaborates with them property, some of which are covered by to develop new products.
collectively this intellectual property supports the development and manufacture of the Group has a wide range of customers new products and services to meet customer and suppliers and, while the loss of or needs, but no one single patent is considered disruption to certain of these arrangements essential to the business of the Group as could temporarily affect the operations of a a whole.
particular business, none is considered essential to the Group as a whole.
notwithstanding this, the Group devotes significant resources to ensuring these relationships continue to operate satisfactorily.
34 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2012
