CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Summary of the Boards work during the year During 2012, the Board carried out all its core duties as set out in the Governance Code Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, including the following: Throughout the year ended 31 December 2012 the Company has been Review of performance against the Groups three-year objectives.
in full compliance with the relevant provisions of the June 2010 version Growth opportunities within the business against a backdrop of of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published by the low or no growth in the macroeconomic environment.
Financial Reporting Council and available on its website www.
Review of bolt-on merger and acquisition opportunities.
Strategic review of the soldier survivability business.
The main principles of the Code focus on Leadership, Effectiveness, Technology and innovation within the business and resulting Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with Shareholders.
statement describes how the Company has applied the main principles Approval of capital expenditure including investment in the Groups of the Code.
It should be read in conjunction with the Business review fibre business.
and Remuneration report on pages 6 to 35 and 50 to 66 respectively.
Review of the Groups approach to risk management.
Environmental and health and safety issues.
Leadership Review and appointment of new corporate advisors.
The role of the Board Consideration of major shareholders views on the Groups The Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders performance and prospects.
for the long-term success of the Company.
The Board is satisfied it has met the Codes requirements for its effective operation.
It has set Delegation of authority the Companys strategic aims, which were reviewed by the Board at The Board has delegated responsibility for certain matters to three its strategy meeting during the year, and has ensured that there is a committees, namely the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be Committees.
The memberships, roles and activities of these committees assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Companys values and are described in separate reports: the Audit Committee report is set out standards, which are contained in the Core Values Statement and Ethics on pages 46 to 47: the Nomination Committee report is set out on Policy, both of which are referred to on page 18 in the Business review.
page 48: and the Remuneration Committee report is set out on pages 47 to 48.
The full terms of reference of the Board committees are Board meetings available upon request and are also available on the Groups website.
In 2012, the Board met formally nine times, of which eight meetings were scheduled and one meeting was held by telephone at short notice.
The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the Group and operational matters to the Chief Executive Officer and the The meeting in March 2012 was scheduled to coincide with the Groups other Executive Directors the Chief Financial Officer and the CEO 2012 Leadership Conference in San Francisco and also allowed the Morgan Ceramics who, together with the CEO Morgan Engineered Board the opportunity to visit the Companys local operations and Materials, the Director of Human Resources and the Company to meet local management.
The October 2012 meeting included Secretary, form the Executive Committee.
The biographies of the a dedicated half-day session on Group strategy.
members of the Executive Committee are set out on pages 36 to 37.
Matters reserved The Board has delegated authority for certain other matters including There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board routine approvals to a General Purposes Committee which meets including significant contractual commitments including the acquisition as required and at which a non-executive Director must be present.
or disposal of companies businesses, treasury and intellectual property transactions, the review of the effectiveness of risk management Attendance at meetings processes, major capital expenditure and corporate responsibility.
The attendance of each Director at Board and Audit, Remuneration One meeting each year is specifically focused on strategy and the and Nomination Committee meetings is set out in the table below.
longer term development of the Group.
Should a Director have concerns about the running of the Company or a proposed action which are not resolved, their concerns would be recorded in the Board minutes.
An appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance policy is in place.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible Director to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended Andrew Shilston 6 6 3 3 1 1 Mark Robertshaw 9 9 5 5 Kevin Dangerfield 9 9 Andrew Hosty 9 9 Victoire fide Margerie 6 6 4 4 3 3 1 1 Martin Flower 9 9 5 5 5 5 5 5 Andrew Given 9 9 5 5 5 5 5 5 Simon Heale 9 9 5 5 5 5 5 5 Tim Stevenson 5 5 2 2 2 2 Indicates a Director deemed by the Board to be independent or, in the case of the Chairman, independent on appointment.
Appointed to the Board on 8 May 2012.
Retired from the Board on 31 July 2012.
42 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Chairman and Chief Executive Officer At the year end, in addition to the Chairman, whom the Company The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, clearly deemed to be independent on appointment, the Board comprised established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
three executive Directors and four non-executive Directors deemed by the Board to be independent.
Thus there is a balance of executive and The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the non-executive Directors which helps ensure that no individual or small Board including setting the Boards agenda and ensuring sufficient time group can dominate the Boards decision-making.
Throughout the year is available for all agenda items, particularly regarding strategic issues, the Company complied with the requirement of the Code that at least for promoting a culture of open debate and constructive challenge, half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive facilitating effective contributions by the non-executive Directors Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
In addition and ensuring constructive relationships between the executive and to the factors set out in the Code, the Boards assessment of a non-executive Directors.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible non-executive Directors independence and effectiveness covers their for the management of the Group, including the delivery of the Groups total number of commitments and any relationships with major suppliers business plan, the formulation and implementation of strategy, chairing and with charities receiving material support from the Company.
the Executive Committee and for ensuring the implementation of the Groups policies.
The management of the Groups operating Divisions Appointments to the Board reports to the Chief Executive Officer.
As is further detailed in the report of the Nomination Committee, set out on page 48, there is a formal, rigorous and transparent The Chairman procedure for appointments to the Board.
Appointments are Tim Stevenson resigned as Chairman on 31 July 2012.
On appointment made on merit and against objective criteria, having due regard for as Chairman on 1 August 2012, Andrew Shilston met the independence diversity, including gender.
The process used for the appointments of criteria set out in the Code.
Andrew Shilston and Victoire fide Margerie to the Board during 2012 are described in the report of the Nomination Committee on page 48.
Non-executive Directors The Board has also considered the recommendations made by the Non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years, Davies Report on Women on Boards.
The Board does not think quotas subject to annual re-election.
The independence, commitment and are a good option as the Board believes all appointments should be effectiveness of any non-executive Director who has served for two based on merit rather than through positive discrimination policies.
terms is subject to rigorous review prior to reappointment for a further The Board is, however, clear that obtaining the right balance and an three-year term.
appropriately diverse mix of skills and experience round the board-table is of paramount importance if the Board is to continue to deliver true Martin Flower is the Senior Independent Director.
entrepreneurial leadership of the business.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors met without the The Board is satisfied that there are succession plans in place for executive Directors present on a number of occasions during the appointments to the Board and for senior management.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director and the other discussed the Groups approach to talent management and succession non-executive Directors met without the Chairman present.
planning at senior levels within the Divisions at its strategy meeting in October 2012.
A description of the work done on planning for Board Effectiveness succession and refreshing the Board is included in the report of the Board balance and independence Nomination Committee on page 48.
The size, structure and composition of the Board was reviewed during the year, taking into account succession planning and the need Commitment to progressively refresh the membership of the Board as well as Prior to undertaking an additional external role or appointment, the the impending departure of Tim Stevenson who stepped down Chairman and the non-executive Directors are asked to confirm that as Chairman and resigned from the Board on 31 July 2012. they will continue to have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to the Company.
Andrew Shilston was appointed to the Board as Chairman Designate on 8 May 2012 and was appointed as Chairman on 1 August 2012.
Information and support Victoire fide Margerie was appointed to the Board on 8 May 2012.
The Company Secretary, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring the Board has full and timely access to all appropriate information As at 14 February 2013, the Board comprises Andrew Shilston, to enable it to discharge its duties.
Board papers are generally made Chairman: Mark Robertshaw, Chief Executive Officer: Kevin available electronically five working days before each meeting.
Dangerfield, Chief Financial Officer: Andrew Hosty, Chief Executive Non-executive Directors also receive updates and information Officer Morgan Ceramics, and four independent non-executive between formal Board meetings.
Directors, Victoire fide Margerie, Martin Flower, Andrew Given and Simon Heale.
Biographies of the Directors, including details The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company of their other main commitments, are set out on pages 36 and 37.
Secretary who, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are observed.
A procedure is in place to enable the Directors to seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense in connection with their duties as Directors.
Annual Report 2012 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Induction and professional development The process for the evaluation of the Board as a whole and its New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining Committees was as follows: the Board.
A new Directors experience and background is taken Development of tailored questionnaires, completed by all Directors, into account in developing a tailored programme.
Following their which took into account the output from the 2011 performance appointments to the Board on 8 May 2012, Andrew Shilston and evaluation process, the current dynamic of the Board, as well as Victoire fide Margerie received comprehensive briefings to supplement the work of the Board during 2012 and its current areas of focus.
the information on the Companys business provided during Formulation of a report summarising the results of the recruitment.
The briefing for both Directors included further questionnaires which was presented to the Board for discussion.
information on the business and its products and markets, brokers reports on the Group, the Companys corporate governance structure In consequence, a number of recommendations were agreed by the and processes and key Group policies.
The induction programme for Board as follows: both Directors included meetings with executive management, briefings There should be a continuing focus on both shortand from functional heads on governance, responsible business and key risks, medium-term Board succession planning, with particular visits to operational sites around the world and meetings with Divisional emphasis on matching the skills and experience of the Directors and operational management.
In addition, Andrew Shilston, the to the Groups strategy.
incoming Chairman, met the Companys main institutional shareholders.
The Board should simplify how the Group and its strategy are presented to external stakeholders.
The Chairman considers the individual training and development Embedding of the Groups updated approach to Risk as detailed needs of each Director, taking into account environmental, social and on page 32 should be closely monitored.
The Company Secretary keeps the suitability of More opportunities should be found for non-executive Directors external courses under review and facilitates the ongoing training and to get to know key business leaders, particularly where they are development of all Directors as necessary.
During 2012, the Directors received a briefing on the UK Governments Alongside the Board and Committee evaluation, each non-executive updated guidance on facilitation payments, a presentation on the Director completed an individual questionnaire which invited them Groups technology and its potential commercial applications, a briefing to reflect on their own performance and contribution to the Board.
on Groups treasury arrangements and a briefing on changes to the The questionnaires were reviewed by the Chairman, with any UK Corporate Governance Code and Stewardship Code.
development needs being discussed with individual Directors.
Non-executive Directors have access to management and staff at all The recommendations made following the 2011 Board performance levels and are encouraged to visit operating sites.
In addition to visits review were implemented during the year.
Further emphasis was placed by individual Directors and the Chairman, each year at least one on succession planning and the composition of the Board especially Board meeting is held at an operating facility.
During 2012 formal within the context of the processes used to appoint Andrew Shilston, Board meetings were held at the Morgan Technical Ceramics site the Chairman, and Victoire fide Margerie, a non-executive Director, in Southampton, UK and at the Morgan Thermal Ceramics site in as reported in the report of the Nomination Committee on page 48 Bromborough, UK.
In addition, the non-executive Directors attended below.
A review of the style, presentation and length of Board papers the Groups leadership conference held in San Francisco and visited the was conducted in the context of the transition from paper-based to Ceramics facility in Hayward, California.
The non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, Performance evaluation met without the Chairman present to evaluate the Chairmans With the aim of improving effectiveness, the Board undertakes a formal performance during the year, taking into account the views of the annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees executive Directors.
As an externally facilitated performance evaluation had been conducted Conflicts of interest in 2011, the Board decided that the 2012 process should be conducted The Board has procedures in place to address the requirements internally.
The process was led by the Chairman and carried out by the of the Companies Act 2006 concerning the duty of the Directors to Company Secretary.
Accordingly the Directors are required to 1 disclose proposed outside interests before they are taken in order to enable a prior assessment of any actual or potential conflict: and 2 disclose without delay any situation which arises which gives rise to an actual or potential conflict.
The Board reviews the outside interests of the Directors and any conflicts disclosed and authorisations given at least annually.
Should an actual or potential conflict be identified, the Board considers whether to authorise the situation in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and, if so, the terms of any authorisation.
In the event of an actual conflict arising, the Director concerned is to notify the Chairman the Chairman would notify the Senior Independent Director and the Director would be excluded from the relevant information, debate and decision.
44 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Accountability Responsible Business Programme includes relevant training and reporting and is part of the control framework.
The Ethics Hotline Financial reporting is available to employees and others in this regard.
The Chief In its reporting to shareholders, the Board is satisfied that it has met its Executive of each Division makes an annual statement of compliance obligations to present a balanced and understandable assessment of to the Board confirming that, for each of the businesses for which the Companys position and prospects as required by the Code and in he is responsible, the financial statements are fairly presented in accordance with the Accounting Standards Boards Reporting Statement 1, all material respects, appropriate systems of internal controls have The Operating and Financial Review RS1.
This is included in the Business been developed and maintained and the businesses comply with review on pages 6 to 35.
The Board also presents updated information Group policies and procedures.
in its half-year and other public reports.
Financial reporting Risk management systems and internal controls are in place in relation to the Groups financial reporting processes A summary of the statement of Directors responsibilities in respect and the process for preparing consolidated accounts.
These include of the Annual Report and the financial statements is set out on policies and procedures which require the maintenance of records page 49 and the going concern statement is set out in the Business which accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of review on page 31. assets, provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to allow the preparation of financial statements in Business model and strategy accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Details of the Companys business model, how it is working to generate and the review and reconciliation of reported data.
As noted above, and sustain long-term value and details of the Boards strategy for representatives of the business are required to certify that their ensuring the Company meets its objectives are set out in the Business reported information gives a true and fair view of the state of affairs Review on pages 6 to 35. of the business and its results for the period.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring these risk management systems and Internal control internal controls.
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining a Performance monitoring There are regular meetings of the Board sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and of the Executive Committee.
A comparison of forecast and and the Companys assets and for reviewing the effectiveness of such actual results is considered, including cash flows and comparisons system.
The Companys system of internal control has been in place against budget and the prior year.
Divisional management teams for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the also meet regularly to review performance.
In addition, regular site Annual Report.
Through the Audit Committee, the Board reviews visits are made by members of the Executive Committee.
the effectiveness of the internal control system annually and did so Risk management The identification of major business risks is during the year.
The system of internal control accords with the Financial an ongoing process carried out in conjunction with operating Reporting Councils guidance on the internal control requirements of management.
Steps are taken to mitigate or manage any material the Code Turnbull.
This review covered all material controls, including risks identified.
The Board, either directly or through the Audit financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management Committee, receives reports on financial, taxation, insurance, systems.
The Audit Committee receives regular risk management treasury, pension, legal and social, environmental and ethical risks reports covering the full range of risks faced by Morgan Crucible as a from management.
The Divisional Chief Executives cover risk issues Group and ensures there are adequate systems in place and evaluates at their management meetings.
During the year, the Groups risk their effectiveness.
management system was reviewed and revised, with details set out in the Risk management section on page 32.
The Directors believe that the Groups system of internal financial Risk factors Morgan Crucibles businesses are affected by a number controls provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that: the of factors, many of which are influenced by macro-economic trends assets of the Group are safeguarded: that transactions are authorised and are therefore outside the Companys immediate control, and recorded in a correct and timely manner: and that such controls although, as described above and in the Business review, the would prevent and detect, within a timely period, material errors or identification and management of such risks is carried out irregularities.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, systematically.
These are further discussed in the Risk management risk and to address key business and financial risks, including social, section on pages 32 and 33. environmental and ethical risks.
The internal control framework Internal audit The Groups internal audit function reviews internal complements the Groups management structure.
The main features control and risk management processes.
The Audit Committee of the Groups systems for internal control and for assessing the potential approves the plans for internal audit reviews and receives reports risks to which the Group is exposed are summarised as follows: accordingly.
Actions resulting from internal audit reviews are agreed Control environment The Groups management processes with management.
The Internal Auditor has direct access to the include delegated authorities and the segregation of duties Chairman of the Audit Committee.
with documented policies and manuals.
These cover financial procedures, environmental, health and safety practice and other areas.
In addition, there is a schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
The Groups Core Values Statement, Ethics Policy and other supporting policies and procedures set out the Groups commitment to the highest standards of corporate and individual behaviour and provide guidance for employees.
The Groups Annual Report 2012 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Audit Committee and the external auditor The Audit Committee met five times during the year and has the The Board has formal and transparent arrangements for considering power to, and does, request the attendance at meetings of any Director, how the Directors apply the Companys financial reporting and internal auditor or member of management as may be considered appropriate control principles, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with by the Committee.
At the end of each meeting the non-executive the Companys auditor.
This requirement is met by the work of the Directors who are members of the Committee also meet the auditor Audit Committee, as described below, and by the audit work carried without the executive Directors or other members of management out by the Companys external auditor, KPMG Audit plc.
Between meetings the members of the Audit Committee keep in contact with the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, The Audit Committee has received confirmation from KPMG Audit plc the Chief Financial Officer, the external auditor and the Internal Auditor that its general procedures support the auditors independence and as necessary.
objectivity in relation to non-audit services.
After considering such procedures the opinion of the Audit Committee was that the auditors The Committee identifies and confirms that it receives the information objectivity and independence was safeguarded despite the provision it needs to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
This is complemented of non-audit services by KPMG Audit plc.
by an annual presentation made by the Divisional Chief Executives and Chief Financial Officers on the internal control environment within their respective Divisions.
Training and development information is made Remuneration available to the members of the Audit Committee when appropriate.
Remuneration policy and practice is discussed in the Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 66.
The Audit Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the year but were left unchanged.
They are available on the Groups website Relations with shareholders and include: During 2012, the Chairman and other non-executive Directors Monitoring and making appropriate recommendations to the Board attended the annual and half-year results presentations, the Groups with regard to the financial reporting process, the integrity of the Capital Markets Day and other investor events.
This provided the financial statements of the Group, preliminary announcements, opportunity to meet institutional shareholders and other attendees half-year reports and any formal announcements relating to the and to further develop an understanding of their views.
Groups financial performance, and reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained in them.
Following the announcement of the Groups results and after other Reviewing accounting policies used by the Group and their significant statements and presentations, investor opinion is canvassed consistent application across the Group.
and any feedback is made available to the Board.
In addition, Reviewing whether the Group has followed appropriate accounting the Board is provided with brokers reports and feedback from standards and made appropriate estimates and judgments, taking shareholder meetings on a regular basis.
into account the views of the external auditor.
Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal To help facilitate dialogue with shareholders, the Investors section of the financial controls and internal control, internal audit and risk Companys website includes details of Stock Exchange announcements, management systems.
press releases, presentations, webcasts and other relevant information.
Reviewing and monitoring the Groups whistleblowing arrangements and systems and controls for the prevention of bribery.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting Making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all members of shareholders for their approval at the AGM, in relation to the the Board and by a representative of the external auditor.
At the AGM appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditor held in May 2012, the Chief Executive Officer made a short business and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the presentation.
Shareholders are also invited to ask questions during the external auditor.
meeting and have the opportunity to meet the Directors and other Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and members of senior management before and after the formal meeting.
The results of the proxy voting on all resolutions are provided for all Reviewing the effectiveness of the process for the statutory audit of attendees and are released to the London Stock Exchange and published the annual consolidated accounts, taking into consideration relevant on the Groups website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
UK professional and regulatory requirements.
Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the Report of the Audit Committee external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account The Audit Committee assists the Board in effectively discharging its relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate control.
Martin services by the external auditor.
Flower, Andrew Given and Simon Heale were members of the Reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which Committee throughout the year.
Victoire fide Margerie became a it considers that action or improvement is needed and making member of the Audit Committee on her appointment as a Director recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
All members of the Committee are independent Directors and Andrew Given, the Chairman of the Committee, has the requisite financial experience.
46 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements The Committee has the authority to investigate any matters according During the year the proportion of the auditors fees for non-audit to its terms of reference and may obtain external advice at the cost of work relative to the audit fee was 14% 2011: 14%.
the Company, but did not do so during the year.
The Internal Auditor has access to the Chairman of the Committee and regularly meets The Committees policy is to undertake an annual review of the with the Committee without other executives present.
effectiveness of the audit process and of all aspects of the external auditors performance and independence before determining whether The work of the Committee in discharging those responsibilities in to undertake a formal review of the auditor including a re-tender respect of 2012 included: presentation or whether to put the Groups audit work out to full Reviewing the Groups 2011 financial statements and 2012 half-year third-party tender.
statements prior to Board approval.
Reviewing the scope of the external audit, and confirmation of The external auditor has processes in place to safeguard their the external auditors terms of engagement and fee structures.
independence and has written to the Committee confirming that, in Assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process and their opinion, they are independent.
The Group last changed its auditor all aspects of the service provided by the external auditor.
in late 2001 and undertook a formal review of the external auditor, The review of the Groups approach to risk management and the which included a re-tender presentation, during 2007.
The external approval of a new methodology and process by which the Groups auditor rotated the partner responsible for the Groups audit work main business risks are assessed and managed, with the principal in 2008 and the next rotation of audit partner will take place in 2013. strategic and operational risks being considered by the Board as Having reviewed the effectiveness of the audit process, all aspects of a whole.
the service provided by the auditor and taking account of the assurance Reviewing the effectiveness of and receiving reports from given by the auditor as to their independence, the Committee management on the Groups internal audit and risk management recommended to the Board that the Groups audit work should not systems and updates to the Groups governance, risk and be put out to third-party tender during 2012 and will further review compliance plans.
Approval of the work and plans for the internal audit function and the monitoring of progress against the plan.
Remuneration Committee Review of the systems of internal controls within the Ceramics As is further described in the Remuneration report on pages 50 and Morgan Engineered Materials Divisions.
to 66, the Remuneration Committee has responsibility for setting Appraisal of the Groups whistleblowing process and related remuneration for all executive Directors and the Chairman, including procedures and policies.
benefits such as share options and awards under the Companys Reviews of material litigation, crisis management plans and incentive plans, pension rights and any compensation payments.
controls in relation to joint ventures.
The Committee also monitors the level and structure of remuneration Monitoring the level of non-audit work of the auditor, which for senior management.
The Committees terms of reference were in 2012 included services amounting to 0.2 million, mainly in reviewed and updated during the year to correct minor inconsistencies connection with tax services.
and are available on the Groups website.
A review of the Groups pension scheme arrangements.
Assessing the impact of a potential breakdown of the Eurozone.
Martin Flower, Andrew Given and Simon Heale, who is the Committee Chairman, were members of the Committee throughout the year.
To help ensure the objectivity and independence of the external Andrew Shilston and Victoire fide Margerie became members of the auditor, the policy implemented by the Committee for the provision Committee on their appointment to the Board on 8 May 2012.
Tim of non-audit services by the external auditor is in summary as follows: Stevenson was a member of the Committee until he stepped down Certain non-audit services may not be provided by the external from the Board on 31 July 2012.
The Committee is assisted in its duties auditor, including the review of their own work: they may not make by the Chief Executive Officer, the Company Secretary and the Director management decisions: their work must not create a mutuality of of Human Resources.
No member of the Committee or attendee is interest: and they may not put themselves in the position of advocate.
present when their own remuneration is under consideration, nor do Any non-audit work proposed to be placed with the external they participate in any relevant voting.
The Committee also has the auditor with a fee between 50,000 and 200,000 must be power to request, for all or part of any meeting, the attendance of any approved in advance by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Director or member of management as may be considered appropriate Projects in excess of 200,000 must be approved in advance by the Committee.
The Committee met five times during the year.
Work which includes multiple phases is treated as a single project for approval purposes.
The prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for any non-audit work which, when added to the fees paid for other non-audit work, would total more than 80% of the audit fee.
Annual Report 2012 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Remuneration Committee continued The process for appointing the new Chairman and non-executive It is the Companys policy to disclose the fees of any executive Director Director is described below: who serves as a non-executive Director of another company.
During Following consideration of a number of leading firms, the the year Mark Robertshaw served as a non-executive Director of Committee appointed Egon Zehnder as external search agent.
SEGRO plc, Kevin Dangerfield served as a non-executive Director In the light of its discussions on the balance of skills and experience of e2v technologies plc and Andrew Hosty served as a non-executive on the Board, the Committee considered and formulated a Director of British Ceramic Research Limited and, with effect from candidate specification for each role.
10 September 2012, as a non-executive Director of Fiberweb plc.
The external search agent produced long lists of candidates for the roles.
The fees received by Mark Robertshaw, Kevin Dangerfield and Interviews were held with the short-listed candidates and all Andrew Hosty in this regard are shown on page 54.
The Remuneration members of the Nomination Committee met the preferred report, which includes details of the Committees responsibilities and candidates for both roles and the former Chairman met the terms of reference and of the Directors remuneration and Directors preferred candidate for the non-executive Director role.
interests in options and shares, is set out on pages 50 to 66.
The Committee selected its preferred candidates and recommended their appointment to the Board.
Report of the Nomination Committee The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments are available for inspection.
Non-executive Directors, including the and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Chairman, are asked to undertake that they will have sufficient time to Directors.
A majority of members of the Nomination Committee are meet their commitments to the Company and their other significant independent non-executive Directors.
Martin Flower, Andrew Given, commitments are disclosed to the Board before appointment, with an Simon Heale and Mark Robertshaw were members of the Committee indication of the time involved.
The Board is informed of any subsequent throughout the year.
Andrew Shilston and Victoire fide Margerie became changes with additional commitments disclosed before they are taken.
members of the Committee on their appointment to the Board on The terms of appointment for non-executive Directors do not include 8 May 2012.
Tim Stevenson, who acted as Chairman of the Committee, a notice period.
ceased to be a member on stepping down from the Board on 31 July 2012 when Andrew Shilston became Chairman of the Committee.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1: 2.2 1 : 2.3 1 : The Committees terms of reference were reviewed but left unchanged 2.5: 2.7 and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the UK Listing Authority Disclosure during the year and are available on the Groups website.
The information required to be disclosed by sub-section 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown in the Directors report on The Committee has the power to request the attendance of any other pages 38 to 41 and is incorporated in this statement by reference.
Director or member of management, for all or part of any meeting, as may be considered appropriate by the Committee.
The Committee met five times during 2012.
Information on share capital and other matters The information about share capital required to be included in this The Nomination Committee reviews the balance of skills, knowledge statement can be found on pages 38 to 41 of the Directors report.
and experience on the Board, succession planning and the leadership needs of the Group.
The work of the Committee in discharging those responsibilities in respect of 2012 included: Leading the search for a successor to the outgoing Chairman, Tim Stevenson, resulting in the selection and recommended appointment of Andrew Shilston to the role of Chairman.
Leading the search for a new non-executive Director, resulting in the selection and recommended appointment of Victoire fide Margerie.
Reviewing the composition of the Board and its Committees and succession planning for the Directors who will retire at or before the 2014 AGM.
48 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2012
