Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 75 Corporate governance report Overview Key Board activities in 2012 Appointment of Nelson Pizarro to the Board, who brings extensive The Board is committed to good governance.
knowledge of the mining industry, both in development projects We believe that good governance is central to andoperations.
the Groups success and ongoing development Appointment of Diego Hernndez as Chief Executive Officer of it is about having the right people, culture and Antofagasta Minerals Antofagasta Minerals, who brings considerable mining experience, having previously held various senior executive structures in place to make sure we make the right positions in the industry in South America in operational, strategic decisions for our business and for our shareholders.
We strive to instil a culture throughout the Group Approval of key steps in the Groups growth plans, with approval of which reflects our core principles of respect, additional expenditure on the Centinela District feasibility study and pre-feasibility study for the Twin Metals Project.
honesty and transparency within a framework that promotes good governance.
In this report we Approval of a Group-wide corporate health and safety policy.
discuss the key features of the Groups governance Ongoing review and monitoring of operational performance, including continued progress at Esperanza to reach design capacity and structures, processes and people we have in place additional investment as part of the plan to debottleneck the operation in order to achieve our objectives.
Jean-Paul Luksic Temporary suspension of development of the Antucoya Project toenable a full review of the project.
Chairman Review of the Groups ongoing capital management, including paying total dividends of US$439 million toshareholders during 2012.
Governance 76 Corporate governance report Compliance with the UK Corporate Our governance structure Governance Code The Antofagasta plc board the Board is collectively responsible for thelong-term success of the Group.
It is responsible for the leadership The UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting and strategic direction of the Group, and for oversight of the Groups Council in June 2010 the Code available on the Financial Reporting performance, its risks and internal control systems.
The Board is assisted Council website sets out governance principles and provisions which in the performance of its responsibilities by its four committees the Audit applied to the Company during the 2012 financial year.
The Company is and Risk Committee, the Remuneration and Talent Committee, the committed to a culture of good governance, as embodied in the Code, Nomination Committee and the Sustainability and Stakeholder and reports here on the extent to which it has applied the principles Management Committee.
More detail of the role of the Board and its andcomplied with the provisions of the Code and explains the reasons committees is set out below.
In September 2012, the Financial Reporting Council released a revised version of the Code the New Code which The Groups businesses are divided into three divisions mining, will apply to reporting periods beginning on or after 1October 2012. transport and water.
The mining division represents over 90% of the TheCompany will report under the New Code in the 2013 Annual Report.
Groups earnings before taking into account any exceptional items.
The Company complied with the detailed code provisions contained inthe Code throughout 2012 except as follows: Antofagasta plc Board and Committees the Board did not have a separately identified Chief Executive and hence at Board level there is no formal separation of the functions of Antofagasta plc Board Chairman and Chief Executive provision A.
The Board considers that its predominantly non-executive composition combined with the delegation of significant responsibility for operational management to a divisional level achieves an appropriate balance and prevents a concentration of power in its Executive Chairman.
The Chairman also assumed the responsibilities of Chief Executive Officer of Antofagasta Audit and Risk Nomination Sustainability Remuneration Minerals on an interim basis, while also continuing in his role as Committee Committee and and Talent Chairman, during the period between Marcelo Awads resignation on Page 80 Page 82 Stakeholder Committee 7March 2012 and the subsequent appointment of Diego Hernndez Management Page 84 from 1 August 2012.
Having regard to his experience and the fact that Committee Page 83 he had previously performed in the role, the Board considered the Chairman to be the most appropriate person to act as interim Chief Executive Officer of Antofagasta Minerals during this intervening 147-day period: and performance-related pay measures did not apply to Board members Business Divisions principle D1 and provision D. 1.1.
The Board considers this appropriate Divisional Boards given its predominantly non-executive composition and the role of the only Executive Director, who is a member of the controlling family, as Transport Mining Water Chairman of the Board.
Performance-related remuneration structures are in place for senior executive management in the Group.
Mining Division Corporate Centre Executive CEO and Business Committee Vice-Presidents Development Committee Mining Division Subsidiary Companies Boards Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 77 The activities of the mining division are managed by the Antofagasta The role of the Board Minerals corporate centre, under the leadership of Diego Hernndez, theAntofagasta Minerals CEO.
The Board met nine times during 2012.
Marcelo Awad resigned as Chief Executive Officer of Antofagasta The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Minerals on 7 March 2012.
Diego Hernndez was subsequently Group.
The Chairman encourages an open culture where healthy appointed as Chief Executive Officer of Antofagasta Minerals from challenge and debate are encouraged within the Board.
Diego Hernndez is a mining engineer and has held attempt to persuade the Board to act as a single team by obtaining various senior executive positions in the mining sector in South America in consensus at Board meetings but, in exceptional circumstances, operational, strategic and corporate roles.
In addition to the appointment decisions may be taken by majority.
There is a schedule of matters of Diego Hernndez, there have also been a number of management specifically reserved for the Board.
appointments and changes at individual operations and at the ViceThe Board is responsible for: President level since the start of 2012, which have further strengthened the Groups senior management team and further improved the Groups providing leadership: management structure.
These appointments and changes are discussed setting the Groups strategic objectives and key policies: in more detail within the CEOs Statement on page 10. ensuring that appropriate resources are in place to enable the The management team at the Antofagasta Minerals corporate centre Group to meet its objectives: comprises eight Vice-Presidents.
Details of each of the Vice-Presidents approving significant transactions and capital investments: and their core areas of responsibility are set out on page 74. reviewing the Groups performance: Within the mining division there is a monthly Operational Performance approving the Groups annual budgets: Review process whereby the individual mining operations report to reviewing the Groups capital management including approval of theAntofagasta Minerals corporate centre, providing a regular dividends: and formalisedprocess for monitoring and control of the operations by the determining the nature and extent of the significant risks that the Group corporate centre.
is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems.
An Executive Committee, comprising the Antofagasta Minerals CEO and Vice-Presidents, the General Managers of the four mining operations and As examples of the way in which the above items were the General Manager of the Antucoya development project, reviews significant matters in respect of the mining division.
The Executive reflected in the Boards activities during 2012: Committee approves capital expenditures by the mining operations and the Board continued to review and monitor the Groups operational the corporate centre within designated authority levels, leads the annual performance with particular focus on the continued progress at budgeting and planning processes, monitors the performance of the Esperanza to reach design capacity and additional investment as mining operations and promotes the sharing of best practices across part of the plan to debottleneck the operation during 2013 and 2014: theoperations.
the Board approved the Groups 2013 annual budget: A Business Development Committee, comprising the Groups Chairman, the Board approved key steps in the Groups growth plans, with the Antofagasta Minerals CEO and a number of the Antofagasta Minerals approval of additional expenditure on the Centinela District feasibility Vice-Presidents focuses on the mining divisions growth opportunities.
study and pre-feasibility study for the Twin Metals Project: The Business Development Committee reviews potential growth the Board approved a Group-wide corporate health and safety policy: opportunities both internal projects and potential transactions, approves the Board continued to review and monitor costs with particular transactions and project expenditures within designated authority levels, focus on the development of the Antucoya Project, leading to a recommends transactions in excess of those levels to the Board for temporary suspension of the project to enable a full review to be approval, and monitors ongoing projects.
undertaken: and Given the core role which Antofagasta Minerals plays in the management the Board continued to review the Groups ongoing capital of the mining operations and projects, and that the mining division management including approving dividends of US$439 million represents the large majority of the Groups business, the Antofagasta plc whichwere paid out to shareholders during 2012.
Directors also serve as directors of Antofagasta Minerals.
The Board has delegated responsibility for implementing the Groups There are divisional boards for the transport division Antofagasta Railway strategic and financial objectives to the senior management within theGroup.
Company plc and the water division Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A., which consider matters specific to those divisions which are not reserved for the The Board has delegated authority to its Committees to perform certain main Antofagasta plc Board.
activities as set out in their terms of reference.
They are the Audit and RiskCommittee, the Remuneration and Talent Committee, the Business model Nomination Committee and the Sustainability and Stakeholder The Strategic review includes a section on pages 18 to 20 outlining Management Committee.
The activities of these Committees are set ourbusiness model to achieve sustainable growth and provides an outin further detail on pages 80 to 83 of this Corporate governance explanation of how the Group generates value for its shareholders.
report and pages 84 to 88 of the Remuneration report.
The terms of reference ofthese Committees are available on the Companys website atwww.
Governance 78 Corporate governance report Senior Independent Director Board composition William Hayes is the Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Board balance Director provides a sounding board for the Chairman, if required.
Where necessary, the Senior Independent Director can act as an intermediary As at the date of this report the Board has ten Directors, comprising an between the Chairman and the other members of the Board.
He is also Executive Chairman and nine Non-Executive Directors.
The Board an additional point of contact for shareholders: he provides a particular considers six of those Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
focus for shareholders on the Groups governance and strategy, and also TheBoard considers that this predominance of Non-Executive Directors gives shareholders a means of raising concerns other than with the is valuable, both in terms of providing a range of outside perspectives to Chairman or senior executives.
Since his appointment, William Hayes has the Group, and also in encouraging robust debate with, and challenge of, met with a number of the Groups largest shareholders, allowing him to the Groups executive management.
provide his perspective on the Groups governance and strategy, and The Board is also satisfied that the balance of the Board limits the scope toobtain their direct feedback on the Group.
for an individual or small group of individuals to dominate the Boards decision-making.
Independent Non-Executive Directors Of the nine Non-Executive Directors, six are considered by the Board to During 2012, Nelson Pizarro was appointed to the Board.
He brings an be independent Gonzalo Menndez, Juan Claro, William Hayes, Tim extensive knowledge of the mining industry both in development projects Baker, Ollie Oliveira and Nelson Pizarro.
Juan Claro, William Hayes, Tim and operations.
Baker, Ollie Oliveira and Nelson Pizarro meet the independence criteria Of the ten Directors, six are based in Chile, three are based in North set out in the Code and the Board is satisfied asto their independence.
America and one is based in the United Kingdom.
Biographies of each The Board is satisfied that Gonzalo Menndez remains independent in ofthe Directors as at the date of this report are shown on pages 72 and character and judgement, notwithstanding that he has served on the 73 and demonstrate a detailed knowledge of the mining industry as well Board for more than nine years and notwithstanding that he is a nonas significant international business experience.
Their biographies also executive director of Quienco S. A. a Chilean-listed company also provide details of their Board Committee memberships as well as other controlled by the Luksic family and some of its subsidiaries.
This is principal directorships and external roles.
because he does not receive any remuneration from the Group other than in a non-executive capacity, and his position in the Quienco group is also Chairman solely as a non-executive director.
The Board considers Gonzalo Jean-Paul Luksic is Chairman of the Board.
His role is that of a full-time Menndezs length of service is of considerable benefit to the Board given Executive Chairman, and he has no other significant commitments that his wealth of knowledge and experience of theGroup, Latin America and prevent him from devoting sufficient time to this role.
He is responsible for the mining industry, and therefore proposes him for re-election.
leadership of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness.
He sets the The Board does not consider Ramn Jara, Guillermo Luksic or Hugo agenda for Board meetings in consultation with the other Directors and Dryland to be independent.
Ramn Jara provides advisory services to the isresponsible for chairing the Board meetings.
Group, as explained in the Remuneration report on page 86.
Guillermo The Group does not have a Board member who is designated as Luksic is the brother of Jean-Paul Luksic, the Chairman of Antofagasta ChiefExecutive.
The Board believes that the Company is not at risk from plc.
Guillermo is chairman of Quienco S. A. and chairman or a director a concentration of power by Jean-Paul Luksic having executive ofQuiencos other listed subsidiaries.
Jean-Paul Luksic and Gonzalo responsibilities as Chairman.
In reaching this conclusion, it has taken Menndez are also non-executive directors of Quienco and some of its intoconsideration the strong presence of independent Non-Executive listed subsidiaries.
Like Antofagasta plc, Quienco is also controlled by Directors on the Board, the structure of the four Board Committees the Luksic family.
Hugo Dryland has provided advisory services to the designed to devolve away from the Chairman the responsibility and Group in his capacity as a senior managing director at Rothschild, which control of certain key areas of Board responsibility, and the delegation remains a financial advisor to the Group.
ofoperational management to a divisional level.
As explained above, the Chairman assumed the responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer of Information and professional development Antofagasta Minerals on an interim basis for 147 days between Marcelo All new Directors receive an induction on joining the Board.
This typically Awads resignation and Diego Hernndezs appointment.
includes briefings on the Groups operations and projects, meetings with the Chairman, other Directors and senior executives, briefings on the legal, regulatory and other duties and requirements of a director of a UKlisted company, and visits to the Groups key operations.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 79 The Company provides Directors with the necessary resources to Performance evaluation develop and update their knowledge and capabilities.
In particular, the Directors are regularly updated on the Groups business, the competitive During the year an internal evaluation was conducted of the performance and regulatory environment in which it operates and other changes of the Board, its Committees and the individual Directors.
This principally affecting the Group as a whole.
comprised interviews with the Directors, considering factors including the effectiveness of Board meetings, the level and nature of information The Directors based outside Chile visit the country regularly, both to provided to Directors, the composition of the Board and the contribution attend Board meetings and other meetings with management, and for of individual Directors.
The Senior Independent Director evaluated the site visits to the Groups operations.
The Directors based outside the Chairman as part of this process.
United Kingdom also regularly visit this country, normally at least once a year to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting held in London.
The results of the evaluation process are used by the Chairman in further During the year the Board receives briefings from external advisors on key developing the effective operation of the Board, and are used by the changes to the regulatory and legal environment impacting the Group.
Nomination Committee when considering the overall composition of, andappointments to, the Board.
The Board and its Committees receive an analysis of the key matters for consideration in advance of each Board or Committee meeting.
They also In line with the requirements set out in the Code provision B.
6.2, an receive regular reports which include analysis of key metrics in respect of externally facilitated Board evaluation will be conducted at least every operational, financial, environmental and social performance, as well as three years.
Externally facilitated evaluations of the Audit and Risk key developments in the Groups exploration and business development Committee and the Nomination Committee are in progress and are activities, information on the commodity markets, the Groups talent scheduled to conclude in 2013.
Recommendations arising from these management activities and analysis of the Groups financial investments.
evaluations will be considered once the evaluations have concluded.
All Directors have access to management and to such further information Relations with shareholders as is needed to carry out their duties and responsibilities fully and effectively.
Relevant management will present to the Board and its The shares of Antofagasta plc are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Committees on the operational or development matters under The E. Abaroa Foundation, in which members of the Luksic family are consideration, allowing close interaction between the Board members interested, controls 60.65% of the ordinary share capital and 94.12% of and a wide range of executive management.
the preference share capital of the Company.
Aureberg Establishment, which is controlled by the Companys Chairman, Jean-Paul Luksic, holds All Directors are entitled to seek independent professional advice concerning the affairs of the Group at the Companys expense.
4.26% of the ordinary share capital of the Company.
The majority of the TheCompany has appropriate insurance in place to cover the remaining approximately 35% of the Companys ordinary shares are held Directorsagainst any legal action against them.
by institutional investors, mainly based in the UK and North America.
Board meeting attendance Institutional shareholder location Board A % Number Maximum A UK 43 attended possible B North America 24 D Jean-Paul Luksic 9 9 C Rest of Europe 13 William Hayes 9 9 D Rest of World 20 Gonzalo Menndez 9 9 C Ramn Jara 8 9 1 Guillermo Luksic 1 9 B Analysis of free-oat investors by geographical location Juan Claro 9 9 as at 31 December 2012.
Hugo Dryland 9 9 Tim Baker 9 9 Ollie Oliveira 9 9 2 Nelson Pizarro 4 4 Nine meetings were held in the year.
1 Guillermo Luksic has been unable to attend eight of the meetings and has forgone his fees since 1October 2012 due to a leave of absence approved by the Board.
2 Nelson Pizarro was appointed to the Board on 24 July 2012.
Each Director withdrew from any meeting when his own position was being considered.
Guillermo Luksic was unable to attend the Annual General Meeting in June 2012.
All other Directors in office at the time of the Annual General Meeting attended that meeting.
Governance 80 Corporate governance report The Company maintains a dialogue with institutional shareholders and Audit and Risk Committee sell-side analysts as well as potential shareholders.
This communication ismanaged by the Investor Relations team, and includes a formal Membership and meeting attendance programme of presentations to update institutional shareholders and Number Maximum analysts on developments in the Group following the announcement of attended possible the half-year and full-year results.
The Group also issues quarterly Current members production figures and financial results.
Copies of these results and William Hayes C 5 5 production announcements, presentations and other press releases Tim Baker 4 5 issued by the Company are available on its website.
As noted above, the Ollie Oliveira 5 5 Group also publishes a separate Sustainability Report to provide further Members who stepped down during the year information on its social and environmental performance.
The Board 1 Juan Claro receives regular summaries and feedback in respect of the meetings held as part of the investor relations programme as well as receiving analysts Five meetings were held in the year.
The Companys Annual General Meeting is also used as an opportunity to communicate with both institutional and private Key activities in 2012 shareholders.
The Company held regular meetings with institutional investors and Review of the Groups annual results and its sell-side analysts throughout the year which included an international half-yearly and interim management statements.
investor road show programme, presenting at industry conferences, hosting sell-side analyst events as well as individual investor meetings.
Review of the continued independence and These were attended by various members of the management team effectiveness of the external auditors.
including Jean-Paul Luksic, the Chairman of the Group, Diego Hernndez, the CEO of Antofagasta Minerals and Alejandro Rivera, Review of the activities and key findings of Internal theVice-President of Development.
Other Non-Executive Directors are given the opportunity to meet with major shareholders and attend Audit during the year, and review of the 2013 meetings if requested to do so by shareholders.
Issues of particular focus for investors during the year included: Review of the effectiveness of the risk management the resignation of Marcelo Awad and appointment of Diego Hernndez function and the Groups system of internal control, as Chief Executive Officer of Antofagasta Minerals: including reviews of the Groups key risks and continued progress at Esperanza to reach design capacity: the progress and status of the Antucoya Project: related mitigations.
the Groups growth pipeline: General Managers of a number of the Groups the capital distribution policy of the Group: operations presented to the Audit and Risk industry and Group-specific trends in operating and capital cost inflation: Committee, allowing a focused discussion on potential issues around the availability of key strategic resources for their specific key risks and control activities.
themining sector in Chile such as water, labour and energy: and 1 Juan Claro rotated off the Audit and Risk Committee on 25 January 2012. general commodity market conditions.
Role and responsibilities of the Audit and Risk Committee The Audit and Risk Committees purpose is to assist the Board in meeting its responsibilities relating to financial reporting and control matters.
The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the integrity of the financial statements and Directors statements on internal controls and reviews the going concern basis prior to its endorsement by the Board.
The Audit and Risk Committee also reviews the preliminary results announcement, the half-yearly financial report and the interim management statements.
The Audit and Risk Committee plays a key role in assisting the Board withits responsibilities in respect of risk and related controls.
The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board with its review of the effectiveness of the risk management process, and monitoring of key risks andmitigations.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 81 The Audit and Risk Committee also reviews the scope and nature of the development of an inventory of environmental compliance obligations audit and issues arising from it and is responsible for ensuring the given its expertise compared with alternative providers in Chile.
TheAudit independence of the external auditors.
and Risk Committee has reviewed the level of these services in the course of the year and is confident that the objectivity and independence of the The terms of reference of the Audit and Risk Committee are available auditor is not impaired by reason of such non-audit work.
The terms of reference reflect the increasing focus of the Audit and Risk Committee The Audit and Risk Committee has also considered the effectiveness and onrisk, including the Audit and Risk Committees role in assisting the full independence of the external audit through meetings with Deloitte LLP, Board to review the major risks facingthe Group.
areview of its audit plan, a consideration of the results of work performed by the external auditor prior to release of the half-year and full-year results, The Audit and Risk Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate and the past performance of Deloitte LLP which was first appointed in any activity within its terms of reference.
It is authorised to seek any 2000.
The Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed and approved the information it requires from any employees and all employees are directed external auditors fees and terms of engagement, having satisfied itself to co-operate with any request made by the Audit and Risk Committee.
asto its qualifications, expertise, resources and independence and the The Audit and Risk Committee meets at least three times a year with the effectiveness of the audit process and the Audit and Risk Committee external auditors in attendance.
hasrecommended to the Board, for approval by shareholders, the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Companys external auditor.
Audit and Risk Committee membership Risk management and internal control The Audit and Risk Committee members are considered by the Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
William Hayes and Ollie Oliveira The Board has ultimate responsibility for determining the nature and are considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
extent of the significant risks that the Group is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk management and External audit internal control systems.
The Audit and Risk Committee plays a key role in assisting the Board with its responsibilities in respect of risk and related As described above, the Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for controls.
The section above which discusses information flows to the reviewing the scope and nature of the audit and issues arising from it Board explains the type of information and analysis provided to the Board, andis responsible for ensuring the independence of the external auditor which facilitates the timely identification of potential key issues and any including its objectivity and effectiveness, monitoring the provision of any necessary mitigating actions.
As discussed in the Risk management non-audit services by the external auditor and for making recommendations section on page 30, the Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board to the Board for the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the withits review of the effectiveness of the risk management process, external auditor.
The Audit and Risk Committee periodically reviews if andmonitoring of key risks and mitigations.
The chairman of the Audit itisnecessary tore-tender the audit engagement.
and Risk Committee reports to the Board following each Audit and The Company has a policy in place which aims to safeguard the RiskCommittee meeting, allowing the Board to understand and if independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
This includes policies necessary further discuss the matters considered in detail by the in respect of the potential employment of former auditors, the types of Auditand Risk Committee.
These processes allow the Board to monitor non-audit services which the external auditors may and may not provide the Groups major risks and related mitigations, andto assess the to the Group, and the approval process in respect of permitted non-audit acceptability of the level of risks which arise from the Groups operations services.
Non-audit services which the external auditors are not permitted and development activities.
to provide under the policy include internal audit outsourcing, valuation Each year the Board, with the support of the Audit and Risk Committee, services which would be used for financial accounting purposes, performs a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management preparation of the Groups accounting records or financial statements, and internal control systems, covering all material controls over financial, and financial information systems design and implementation.
Certain operational and sustainability related risks, compliance controls and risk permitted non-audit services always require prior approval by the Audit management systems.
There is a continuous process for identifying, and Risk Committee, whereas other such services require prior approval evaluating and managing the significant risks that the Group faces.
This by the Audit and Risk Committee when the related fees are above process is regularly reviewed and it is an ongoing activity throughout the specified levels.
In addition to this approval process for specific non-audit year.
The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage rather services, the Audit and Risk Committee monitors the total level of than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can non-audit services to ensure that neither the objectivity nor the only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material independence of the auditor is put at risk.
A breakdown of the audit and non-audit fees is disclosed in Note 7 to the During 2012, a detailed review of the risk management and internal financial statements.
The Companys external auditor, Deloitte LLP, has control systems was performed by the Audit and Risk Committee, with provided non-audit services excluding audit-related services which the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee reporting back to the amounted to US$0.8 million.
This mainly related to assistance in Chile Board on the findings of the review, which were considered by the Board.
withthe preparation of an environmental management model and the Governance 82 Corporate governance report The review of internal control systems included the controls over financial, Nomination Committee operational and sustainability related risks and compliance controls, and is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider Membership and meeting attendance whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled Number Maximum and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and attended possible indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The review of the risk Jean-Paul Luksic C 3 3 management and internal control systems considers all significant William Hayes 3 3 aspects of internal control, including a review of the effectiveness of the Juan Claro 3 3 internal audit function.
The internal audit function is responsible for reviewing the adequacy of the internal control environment across the Three meetings were held in the year.
Group and for reporting the findings of the internal audit work to the Audit and Risk Committee on a regular basis.
Key activities in 2012 During 2012 the General Managers of a number of the Groups operations Appointment of Nelson Pizarro as a new presented to the Audit and Risk Committee on their key risks and control Non-Executive Director.
activities undertaken during the year, providing an opportunity for a focused discussion on the major controls implemented at those sites.
Appointment of Diego Hernndez as CEO During the course of the review of the system of internal control, the Audit of Antofagasta Minerals.
and Risk Committee has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore a Ongoing review of the composition and balance confirmation in respect of necessary actions is not required.
of the Board, and Board succession.
Further information relating to the Groups risk and management systems is given in the Risk management section of the Strategic review on pages 30 to 33.
Role and responsibilities of the Whistleblowing procedures Nomination Committee The Audit and Risk Committee is also responsible for reviewing The Nomination Committee is responsible for the process for new whistleblowing arrangements.
It makes recommendations to the Board on theappointment of new Directors and is responsible for ensuring An updated version of the Groups Ethics Code was rolled out to the thatappointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
Groups employees in 2011, and during 2012 this roll-out was extended TheNomination Committee also periodically reviews the composition tocontractors working at the Groups operations.
The Code includes a ofthe Board including the balance between Executive and Non-Executive procedure to enable employees to raise concerns, anonymously if Directors and considers succession planning for the Board.
A Corporate Ethics Committee, comprising members of senior management, is responsible for implementing, developing and The Nomination Committees terms of reference are available on the updating the Ethics Code and investigating allegations of impropriety.
Additionally, each Business Unit has an Ethics Committee to investigate The Nomination Committee meets as necessary and, in any event, allegations made locally.
The Corporate Ethics Committee reports directly atleast once a year.
to the CEO of Antofagasta Minerals.
The Audit and Risk Committee considers the results of this work and the operation of the Ethics Code Appointments to the Board aspart of its annual review of the effectiveness of internal control.
In making appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee The Ethics Code also sets out the Groups whistleblowing procedures, considers the skills, experience and knowledge of the existing Directors which enable staff, in confidence, to raise concerns about possible and identifies potential candidates who would most benefit the Board.
improprieties or non-compliance with the Ethics Code.
Procedures are Itconsiders the candidates knowledge and experience of Chile, the communicated throughout the Group, which provide staff with additional mining industry, Latin America, capital markets and the regulatory guidance and enable them to report matters in a language with which environment, and whether they have sufficient time to devote to the they are comfortable.
The Audit and Risk Committee receives quarterly role.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that any new Directors reports on whistleblowing incidents.
It remains satisfied that the areprovided with a full induction on joining the Board.
procedures in place incorporate arrangements for the proportionate andindependent investigation of matters raised and for the appropriate During 2012, Nelson Pizarro was appointed to the Board on the follow-up action.
recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
In this selection process there was due regard to diversity including gender, skills, experience and other time commitments.
Nelson Pizarro brings an extensive knowledge of the mining industry both in construction and operation.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 83 The Nomination Committee is satisfied that it identified an appropriate Role and responsibilities of the Sustainability candidate through its knowledge of the relevant industrial and geographical and Stakeholder Management Committee sectors and accordingly did not need to advertise the post or use a search agency.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for sustainability.
The Board hasputin place procedures and management structures at a Group Boardroom diversity anddivisional level to ensure the implementation of its sustainable The Nomination Committee has considered the recommendations in development principles and Antofagasta Minerals social and environmental Lord Davies report Women on Boards published in February 2011. strategy.
These arrangements are part of the overall Group governance TheGroup supports boardroom diversity and will continue to be rigorous arrangements described in the Corporate Governance Report.
The and transparent in its recruitment policies and will ensure that appointments Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee periodically are made on merit, taking into account the benefits of diversity including visitthe Groups operations to review performance and promote good gender diversity.
practice, particularly in relation to safety.
The Directors responsibilities, including those relating to risk management Re-election and control, are described in the statement of Directors Responsibilities.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, all The Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee assists Directors will be standing for re-election at this years Annual General theBoard in its responsibilities with respect to the Groups social Meeting on 12 June 2013.
Having taken into account the results of the responsibility.
The Board takes into account the community, social, performance evaluation of the Board see page 79, the Board is satisfied environmental and ethical impact of its decisions.
that each of the Directors continues to be effective and continues to The Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committees demonstrate commitment to his role and is recommended for re-election.
responsibilities include providing guidance in relation to sustainability matters generally: reviewing and updating the Groups framework Sustainability and Stakeholder ofsustainability policies and strategies including safety, health, Management Committee environmental, social and stakeholder issues: monitoring and reviewing the Groups performance in respect of sustainability matters, indicators Membership and meeting attendance and targets: escalating matters of concern to the Board and reviewing Number Maximum and approving the Groups annual Sustainability Report which is attended possible published separately.
Ramn Jara C 3 3 Juan Claro 3 3 Key issues of social responsibility are identified and assessed through theGroups risk management processes described under Risk Tim Baker 3 3 management and internal control above.
Three meetings were held in the year.
The Groups annual Sustainability Report provides further information onits social and environmental performance.
More information on Key activities in 2012 sustainability is given on pages 52 to 61. Review and approval of the 2011 Sustainability Report and the corporate sustainability section of the 2011 Annual Report.
Request for external verification of the 2012 Sustainability Report.
Request for all operational and project sites to be audited regularly by the risk control team with a particular focus on health and safety.
Review and approval of the new Group Health and Safety policy and review of the health and safety performance reports for the Groups operations, projects and explorations.
