Corporate Governance Report UK Corporate Governance Code report has also now served for a period Details of directors contract terms are The board is committed to high standards beyond which the Code suggests his shown in the Remuneration Report on of corporate governance and compliance independence may be affected.
As with page 34. with the principles in the UK Corporate Ivan Fallon, the board considers Lord Governance Code issued by the UK Stone to be an extremely effective member Directors and officers insurance cover Financial Reporting Council in 2010 of the board and that his extensive retail has been established for all directors to the Code.
knowledge is of great benefit to the fashion provide cover against their reasonable division of the group.
actions on behalf of the company.
For the year in review the board considers that it and the company have complied On the basis of the above, the board Diversity with the provisions of the Code.
The considers that it had a majority of The board recognises the importance of following paragraphs explain how the independent non-executive directors diversity, including gender, at all levels of main principles of the Code have been serving during the year.
It is also the company as well as on the board and applied.
The Directors remuneration report considered that the composition of the is supportive of the aims and objectives of contains further details on pages 29 to 38. board during the year had the necessary the Davies Report on Women on Boards balance of executive and non-executive which was published in February 2011.
Board composition directors to provide the requisite skills, The company is committed to equal The board comprises eight members, six experience and judgement appropriate opportunities and increasing diversity of whom are non-executive.
There is a for the requirements of the business and across our operations.
During the year clear division of responsibilities between board effectiveness.
under review the board considered the the Chairman, Lord Alliance of Manchester recommendations in the Davies report CBE, who is responsible for the effective At last years AGM, the board was an and expressed an intention to increase operation of the board and the Chief early adopter of the requirements in the the number of women on the board and to Executive, Alan White, who is responsible Code that all directors retire and submit work towards the recommendation of 25% for the groups operational performance.
themselves for re-election annually and, female representation by 2015.
Further again this year, each of the directors will detail can be found in the nominations The board is sensitive to the need for nonagain retire at the forthcoming AGM.
All of committee section below.
The board executive directors to remain independent them, being eligible, will offer themselves currently has one female board member of the management in order to be able to for reappointment at that meeting.
equating to 12.5% of its directors.
The exercise proper oversight and effectively board will regularly consider how diversity challenge the executive directors.
The nonRather than serve on 3 year terms, all can be enhanced through the board and executive directors are: non-executive directors now serve the the senior management team and across company under letters of appointment the group generally.
"At the same time it is s, ORD!LLIANCEOF-ANCHESTER#""% which stipulate rolling terms of six months of the utmost importance for the board to Chairman : duration."
"All appointments are terminable, maintain strong leadership at the company s. IGEL!LLIANCE ""% without compensation, on six months and the board will continue to appoint both of whom are not regarded by the notice by either party and are subject only the most appropriate candidates to board as independent under the provisions to other early termination provisions, the board."
In the coming year the board of the Code, for example all non-executives letters of will consider a board diversity policy s VAN&ALLON  appointment permit termination without to be included in its board governance non-executive director : compensation in the event a director is not principles.
"re-elected upon retirement by rotation in s, ORD3TONEOF""LACKHEATH CHAIROF nominations committee : accordance with the articles, or at the AGM."
Board operation and evaluation s OHN-C'UIRE CHAIROFAUDIT An effective board of directors leads and committee : and The board, having carried out a controls the group.
The members of the performance evaluation, considers that s!NNA&ORD board are shown on page 16 of this report.
Each of these is considered by the board the performance of all directors and The board met nine times during the year.
their commitment to the role of director to be independent.
Directors attendance at board meetings continues to be effective.
Biographical was as follows: detail of each director is provided on Ivan Fallon was appointed to the board in October 1994 and has now served on page 16 of this annual report to enable Attendance shareholders to make an informed the board for a period beyond which the Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 9 Code suggests that his independence decision on the re-election resolutions.
Ivan Fallon 9 All appointments to the board are made may be affected.
The board, nonetheless, Alan White 9 holds Ivan Fallon to be independent and on merit against objective criteria and with Lord Stone of Blackheath 7 considers that his substantial commercial the intention of ensuring that all appointees Nigel Alliance OBE 7 acumen and extensive knowledge of the have the requisite skills and sufficient time Dean Moore 9 groups businesses gained during his to devote themselves effectively to the John McGuire 9 service on the board far outweigh any business of the board and to discharge Anna Ford 9 considerations of lack of independence.
Lord Stone was appointed to the board in March 2002 and at the date of this 24 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Report The board is responsible for major policy professional advice in respect of their committees continue to be effectively decisions and for determining the nature fiduciary duties and obligations.
All led by their respective Chairmen and and extent of the risks it is willing to take board members have full and direct that information provided to the directors in achieving its strategic objectives.
access to the Company Secretary, who was comprehensive and sufficient The board delegates detailed operational is a qualified solicitor and who attends for the directors needs.
It was also matters to its committees and suball board and committee meetings.
The concluded that each director is individually committees, the directors and senior Company Secretary regularly briefs the contributing to the overall effectiveness officers, including the chief executive board on legal, regulatory and compliance and success of the group.
and finance director, where necessary.
matters, shareholder engagement The board is collectively responsible issues, continuing director education and Beyond the formal annual evaluation, the for providing effective leadership and development and the statutory duties and performance of the executive directors is promoting the success of the group and obligation of the directors.
continuously monitored throughout the works to a formal schedule of matters year by the Chairman and the Deputy reserved for the board a copy of which In the year under review the board Chairman.
The board acknowledges the is available on the companys website, undertook a formal appraisal of its own provisions of section B6.2 of the Code www.
This document performance and effectiveness and also that an externally facilitated evaluation be includes all decisions on business strategy, that of the Chairman and the boards carried out at least once in every 3 years the approval of financial statements, the committees.
The engagement of an and has agreed that an external evaluation annual capital and operating expenditure external body to manage the performance of board effectiveness will be carried out plans, investment, treasury and dividend evaluation process was considered but for the financial year 2013 14. policies, governance issues, major capital the board concluded that the approach projects, overseeing the groups risk adopted in the previous year remained The Chairman reviews and agrees control procedures, board membership sufficiently robust, appropriate and cost with each director their training and and the composition of its committees effective for the company.
and the groups ethical, social and process consisted of the individual environmental policies.
Currently, the completion of a questionnaire containing Directors conflicts of interest January board meeting each year is held 26 detailed questions ranging from the The articles of association of the company over two days and is entirely devoted to a effectiveness of individual members, give the directors the power to consider backwards-looking review and the future the size and number of board reports, and, if appropriate, authorise conflict situations where a directors declared development of the groups long-term relationships with management, the mix strategic plan.
of skill-sets, individual contribution at interest may conflict or does conflict with the interests of the company.
board meetings to the effectiveness of the The day-to-day management of the group Company Secretary.
The questionnaire Procedures have been set in place by the is delegated to the home shopping board was completed by all directors in relation of JD Williams & Company Limited on to the board and also any committee of board to regularly report and record any potential or actual conflicts which arise in which Alan White and Dean Moore sit which they were a member.
The process as chief executive and finance director is designed to establish whether each a register which is then reviewed by the board at least annually.
director continues to meet the boards requirements in terms of effective No conflicts of interest were reported in The board governs through clearly contribution, skills and devotion to the role.
mandated committees, accompanied by The evaluation results were collated by the year under review.
robust monitoring and reporting systems.
the Company Secretary for review by the Further detail is given below.
Chairman and then a joint review by the Committees of the Board The board has delegated specific board.
The performance of the Chairman A comprehensive set of board papers was reviewed and appraised by the senior authorities to a number of committees to non-executive director in consultation deal with specific aspects of management including detailed management reports from the Chief Executive and the Finance with the other board members.
The Chief and to maintain supervision over the Executives performance was reviewed internal control procedures of the group.
Director, management accounts, broker analyses, compliance and regulatory and appraised by the Chairman and the These committees meet regularly and non-executive directors.
The performance have formal written terms of reference briefings and bespoke reports is circulated to each director not less than seven of the Finance Director the only other which are available for inspection on executive director on the board was the companys website.
The minutes of days prior to each board meeting.
Nonexecutive directors are encouraged to carried out in a similar manner to the the meetings of these committees are Chief Executive.
circulated to all committee members in meet and talk to operational staff and undertake regular site visits to ensure advance of the next following committee The evaluation concluded that the board meeting, at which they are ratified.
The they have the most up-to-date knowledge and understanding of the company and and committees continue to perform well following committees of the board have and are effective and that robust, free been established: its activities and so that the company can benefit from the skills and experience of and frank discussion and challenge to the operational directors and the executive s!UDITCOMMITTEE the non-executive directors.
Procedures are in place to enable all directors exists at all levels.
The survey  AND also found that the board and s. OMINATIONCOMMITTEE directors to obtain independent N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 25 Corporate Governance Report After each committee meeting the and, separately, the groups head of To address this concern, the company has chairman of that committee makes a internal audit.
also appointed independent advisors to formal report to the board of directors provide advice on executive remuneration detailing the business carried out The audit committee is also charged with issues and pension matters where by the committee and setting out its the oversight and management of the appropriate.
These advisors do not recommendations.
groups whistleblowing procedure which provide the group with any other services contains procedures for the committee to which could bring into question their Audit committee receive, in confidence, complaints on all independence or provide any conflict of The audit committee consists of nonoperational matters.
interest further details of other advisers executive directors the board consider to are set out in the Remuneration Report be independent.
The current chairman is The committee has established a on page 29.
The other members are continuous process for identifying, Ivan Fallon, Lord Stone of Blackheath and evaluating and managing the significant During the year fees paid to Deloitte LLP Anna Ford.
The chairman of the committee risks the group faces.
This monitoring is for audit and non-audit services were as and other members of the committee are principally based on reviewing reports follows:- regarded as having recent and relevant from senior management to consider financial experience.
By invitation, the audit whether significant operational risks are Audit: 0.2m committee meetings are also attended by being identified, evaluated, managed and Non-audit tax 0.4m the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, controlled and whether any significant the groups head of internal audit and the weaknesses exist which need to be The chairman of the audit committee has groups external auditors.
Again this year, the committee asked Deloitte LLP to advise him of the members have received, considered and scale of non-audit fees being incurred, as The committee met twice in the year under approved an updated risk evaluation from they are incurred, throughout the year to review.
Committee attendance was as the operational directors.
Further details enable him to report to the committee any follows: are given later in the Risk Management concerns he may have that the auditors Attendance section of this report.
Lord Stone of Blackheath 2 The board consider that the processes As a result of its work during the year, the John McGuire 2 of the audit committee continue to be audit committee has concluded that the Ivan Fallon 2 robust and effective and comply with the committee has acted in accordance with Anna Ford 2 guidance issued by the Smith Committee.
its terms of reference and has addressed During the year under review the board and reasonably ensured the independence The audit committee is charged with has not been advised by the audit and objectivity of the external auditors.
overseeing the nature and scope of the committee, nor identified itself, any failings group audit process both internal or weaknesses in internal control which it There are no contractual obligations and external and its effectiveness.
has determined to be material.
restricting the groups choice of external The committees work includes: auditor.
The committee has recommended The audit committee periodically reviews that the existing auditors, Deloitte LLP be  the appointment of the external auditor reappointed.
Deloitte LLP have signified internal audit programme and resources: as well as their relationship with the group, their willingness to continue in office and  including monitoring the groups use of ordinary resolutions appointing them as auditors both with and in the absence the auditors for non-audit services and auditors and authorising the directors to of the executive directors: the balance of audit and non-audit fees set their remuneration will be proposed at  paid to the auditors.
Assignments of nonthe 2012 annual general meeting.
and interim financial statements and audit services are generally subject to reviewing the audit reports and audittender, and decisions on the allocation of Remuneration committee related reports provided by the work are made on the basis of competence, The remuneration committee consists external auditor: cost-effectiveness, relevant legislation and entirely of non-executive directors  S knowledge of the groups business.
regarded by the company to be system of internal risk control and Deloitte LLP has been the groups auditor independent.
The current chairman is sources of assurance: for a number of years.
Having reviewed the Ivan Fallon.
The other members are Lord  independence and effectiveness of the Stone of Blackheath, John McGuire and secretary on environmental, social or external auditor, the committee has not Anna Ford.
governance issues: and considered it necessary to require them  to tender for the audit work.
The remuneration committee met on four in respect of its findings in respect of occasions during the year.
Members all of the above matters.
Deloitte LLP have during the year also attendance was as follows: provided some non-audit services to the Attendance In addition to the above scheduled company in the form of tax advice.
The meetings, the chairman of the committee Lord Stone of Blackheath 4 audit committee is aware that providing also regularly attends the groups head John McGuire 4 audit and non-audit services could give office to meet with the Finance Director Ivan Fallon 4 rise to a potential conflict of interest.
Anna Ford 4 26 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Report The purpose of this committee is to review, provides an on-going programme of have been collated and used as a key formulate and determine the remuneration briefings for directors covering legal and driver in the annual internal audit plan.
package of each executive director and regulatory changes and developments other members of the board and to relevant to the groups activities and A risk committee has been established as consider how the company is applying directors areas of responsibility.
a sub-committee of the audit committee the principles of the Code in respect of on which the chief executive, the finance directors remuneration.
During the year the nominations committee director chair of risk committee, met on 3 occasions with full attendance the company secretary and head of A comprehensive Remuneration Report is by all members.
In addition there were a internal audit sit, to focus on reviewing included in this Annual Report on pages 29 further 3 informal meetings with members  to 38.
The report will be put to an advisory of the committee to formulate and pursue monitor and manage the risks identified.
vote by the members at the companys the diversity and breadth project referred Operational management is asked to 2012 annual general meeting.
present to the risk committee on a cyclical basis on the progress of agreed Nominations committee Finance Committee actions against the major risks identified The nominations committee is chaired So that actions may be taken promptly by the process.
The output from the risk by Lord Stone of Blackheath.
The other a finance committee comprising the committee is then shared with the audit members are currently Lord Alliance of chairman of the audit committee, the committee and the board.
Manchester CBE, Ivan Fallon, John Chief Executive and the Finance Director McGuire and Anna Ford.
The formal terms together with such other non-executive The board of directors through and of reference for this committee require it directors as the board may appoint from with the benefit of the reports and to make recommendations to the board time to time operates between scheduled recommendations of the audit committee for appointments of directors including, board meetings and is authorised to make has reviewed the effectiveness of the when appropriate, the chairman of the decisions, within limits defined by the system of internal control for the year board and also directors of the operating board, regarding certain finance, treasury under review.
The board through the audit board and other senior executive staff of and tax or investment matters.
committee discusses with the external the operating company.
Where appropriate, auditors and the internal audit department, the Chief Executive and Company Internal control the results of audit work and any resulting Secretary attend meetings of the The directors have overall responsibility internal control issues, including the nominations committee.
for ensuring that the group maintains a implementation of action points arising sound system of internal control.
The nominations committee evaluates are inherent limitations in any system of board candidates on merit, against internal control and no system can provide The internal audit function is independent of management and the head of the objective criteria, taking into account the absolute assurance and management skills and experience required to perform against material misstatement, loss or function has direct access to the chairman of the audit committee and the chief the duties of the post with due regard to failure.
Equally, no system can guarantee diversity and gender.
Where appropriate, elimination of the risk of failure to meet executive of the group.
Internal audit plans are discussed and agreed annually external search consultants are engaged.
the objectives of the business.
Against this background, the board has established between the group head of internal audit and the audit committee.
The nominations committee is currently a continuous process for identifying, considering the Davies Report into Women evaluating and managing the significant Appropriate internal financial controls on Boards and its response to the issues it risks the group faces in order to give raised.
The committee is currently working it reasonable assurances regarding its are in place throughout the group, some of which have already been referred to increase the diversity and breadth of operations and compliance with laws and skills and experience on the board and to regulations.
Other examples include the existence of a well-defined this end it has engaged with and employed the services of an external consultancy, Risk Management group organisation structure, with clear lines of responsibility and explicit MWM Consulting LLP.
The board already In order to ensure key business has one female director Anna Ford and developments are appropriately factored authority delegated to divisional boards and executive management, and a aspires to increase the percentage of into the groups risk management process, women on the board to at least 25% of internal audit facilitated a board-level risk comprehensive financial reporting system session in the year.
The chief executive of which communicates plans, budgets directors by 2015. the group and the finance director along and monthly results to relevant levels of with operational management identified management, including the board.
The Company Secretary is responsible for the induction of new directors.
New directors and reviewed the key risks facing the business and appraised the structure The company has complied, and continues are provided with a comprehensive pack of information including terms of reference, of internal controls to mitigate these to comply, with the provisions of the Code risks.
The audit committee was provided on internal controls.
There is an on-going information regarding the business and guidance on their roles and duties as with the output from this process and process in place for identifying, evaluating given the opportunity to conduct its own and managing the significant risks directors and meetings site visits with key employee contacts are arranged as assessment of risks across strategic, facing the group that has been in place financial and operational areas.
The results throughout the year under review and to appropriate.
The Company Secretary N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 27 Corporate Governance Report the date of approval of the accounts.
This The company aims to ensure that all process has been reviewed by the audit shareholders have full and timely access committee and the board, and accords to the information it discloses in the with guidance appended to the Code.
The annual report, the yearly and half yearly board has not identified nor been advised announcements and interim management of any failings or weaknesses which it has statements and that shareholders determined to be material.
have the opportunity to meet with the executive management team and certain Relations with investors members of the operating division The company places considerable at the announcement of the groups importance on good communication with results and also at the annual general all shareholders, be they institutional or meeting.
Non-executive and executive individual investors.
Institutional investors, directors also attend meetings with fund managers and analysts are kept shareholders on request.
As well as informed of the companys overall strategy being provided with a copy of the annual through regular meetings and investor report and results announcements, the road-shows and site visits.
All nongroup recently overhauled its website to executive directors are kept informed provide shareholders with up to date and of shareholders views through detailed comprehensive material about the group feedback on surveys and polls and and its activities and also real-time market analyst and broker reports are tabled information and prices.
Shareholders also at each board meeting.
The senior nonhave the opportunity to ask questions, executive director is available to meet make observations or represent their views with, and understand, the views of major to the board of directors by constructive shareholders.
use of the annual general meeting.
28 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
