Governance Corporate governance Independence Key matters reserved for Board approval The Board considers all of the Non-Executive Directors to be independent other than Jorge Cosmen and considered Sir John Armitt to be independent prior to his appointment Group strategy and risk management as Chairman.
Jorge Cosmen is not considered to be t Formulation and approval of long term objectives independent by the Board due to his close links with the t Approval of changes to capital structure ALSA business and significant interests in the shares of the Company which are held through European Express t Approval of major changes to management and control structure Enterprises Limited.
Despite his non-independence, the Board feels that it benets greatly from Jorge Cosmens t Approval of extension of activities into new businesses or geographical areas extensive local market knowledge and experience.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Financial and internal controls Companys share option or bonus schemes and their t Oversight of risk management and internal control framework service is non-pensionable.
t Approval of financial statements and results announcements The role of the Board The Boards role is to provide leadership of the Group and t Approval of shareholder communications, circulars and notices direction for management.
It is collectively responsible of meetings and accountable to the Companys shareholders for the t Approval of the auditors remuneration and recommendations long term success of the Group and for ensuring the for their appointment removal appropriate management and operation of the Group in pursuit of its objectives.
t Recommendation and declaration of dividends The Board is responsible for setting the Groups strategic t Monitoring Groups businesses against plan and budget aims, its values and standards and ensuring the necessary t Approval of major capital expenditure projects financial and human resources are in place to achieve its goals.
To help discharge its responsibilities, the Board has t Approval of material contracts a schedule of governance and business matters for which it is responsible.
These form the core of the Boards agenda.
Board membership and committees The Board discharges its duties through an annual t Appointment of Directors programme of Board and other meetings.
In doing so, t Approval of remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors the Board ensures that all necessary matters are discussed.
The timeline on page 56 shows the main items of business t Setting of committee terms of reference addressed by the Board during the year.
The Non-Executive t Approval of new share incentive plans Directors also met several times during the year without the Executive Directors being present.
Corporate governance t Undertaking formal performance reviews of Board, committee and individual directors t Determining the independence of directors t Receiving reports from the Companys major shareholders Policies t Review and approval of Group policies, for example: health and safety risk management strategy e nvironment charitable and political donations 54 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Non-Executive Directors Reporting framework The terms and conditions of appointment of the NonExecutive Directors are available for inspection at each Annual General Meeting, on the Companys website and Remuneration Audit at its registered ofce during normal business hours.
The Committee Committee Group Non-Executive Directors disclose to the Board their other Nomina tion Safety & Environment Board significant commitments.
The procedure adopted by the Committee Committee Company in relation to Directors conicts of interest are detailed on page 79.
Group Executive Committee Senior Independent Director The Board appoints one of the Non-Executive Directors to act as Senior Independent Director and this role has been UK Spain North America held by Tim Score since April 2009.
The role of the Senior Executive Executive Executive Independent Director is to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other Board Committee Directors where necessary.
The Senior Independent Director is also available to address shareholders concerns if they Executive Committee have been unable to resolve these through normal channels or when such channels would be inappropriate.
The Senior The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive Independent Director is also responsible for leading the The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and annual appraisal of the Chairmans performance.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for running the business of the Group and Executive Directors implementation of the strategy and policies adopted by The Executive Directors are responsible for the day-to-day the Board.
The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive management of the Groups businesses, implementation are held separately and the division of responsibilities of its strategy, policies and budgets and its financial between these roles is clearly established as shown below.
Executive management meetings comprise the Executive Directors and senior management from the Chairmans responsibilities divisions and are held regularly to discuss current issues.
t Chairing and managing the business of the Board t Together with the Group Chief Executive, leading the Principal committees of the Board Board in developing the strategy of the business and The main committees established by the Board are the Audit ensuring its effective implementation by the executive Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination management team Committee and the Safety & Environment Committee.
Each Committee operates within dened terms of reference, t Ensuring effective dialogue with investors concerning the full versions of which can be found on the Companys mutual understanding of objectives website at nationalexpressgroup.
Each Committee reports its proceedings to the Board through the submission t In conjunction with the Nomination Committee, taking of reports and minutes as appropriate.
responsibility for the composition and replenishment of the Board All Board Committees are authorised to obtain legal or other professional advice as necessary, to secure the attendance t Periodically reviewing with the Board its working practices of external advisors at their meetings and to seek information and performance required from any employee of the Group in order to perform t Ensuring there is an effective contribution from the their duties.
Non-Executive Directors and a constructive relationship Reports of each of the Committees are provided on pages between Executive and Non-Executive Directors 60 to 65, and include information on each Committees Group Chief Executives responsibilities membership, duties and work throughout the year.
t Communicating a shared purpose and the culture, The Chief Executive heads the Group Executive Committee vision and values of the Group which meets on a monthly basis and is tasked with t The development and implementation approving operational business matters.
In addition, the UK, of management strategy Spain and North America Executives meet on a monthly basis and matters dealt with at these meetings are reported t The day-to-day management of the Group to the Group Executive Committee.
t Managing the executive management team The reporting framework of the Board Committees and t Fostering relationships with key stakeholders of the Group Executive Committee and its sub-committees is shown above.
t Leading the Group Executive Committee The table on page 56 sets out the number of meetings t In conjunction with the Group Finance Director, of the Board and its Committees during the year and communicating the Groups financial performance individual attendance by the Board and Committee to investors and analysts members at these meetings.
t Liaising with the Chairman to ensure effective dialogue During the year the Chairman met on several occasions with with investors and stakeholders the Non-Executives without the Executive Directors present The Chairmans other significant commitments are detailed to allow informal discussions on a variety of issues.
in his biography which accompanies the Notice of the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
com 55 Governance Corporate governance continued Number of Board meetings Safety & The Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Environment Board meetings of Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee Total meetings in 2012 83543 Executive Directors Dean Finch, Group Chief Executive 8 Jez Maiden, Group Finance Director 8 Non-Executive Directors 3 John Devaney 853 4 Joaqun Ayuso 7 3 Jorge Cosmen 8 5 3 1 Miranda Curtis 3 3 1 1 1 1 5 Sir Andrew Foster 735 3 3 3 2 Jackie Hunt 3 3 1 1 Chris Muntwyler 8 3 3 Lee Sander 8 4 3 Tim Score 8 3 43 Company Secretary: Michael Hampson also acts as Secretary to the Board Committees.
1 Resigned from the Board on 10 May 2012.
Maximum possible meetings shown in brackets.
2 Appointed to the Board on 13 September 2012.
3 Resigned from the Board on 31 January 2013.
4 Joaqun Ayuso was unable to attend the Board meeting held on 24 January 2012 due to a pror engagement scheduled before his appointment to the Board.
5 Sir Andrew Foster was unable to attend the unscheduled Board meeting held on 13 September 2012 due to a prior engagement.
Board activity throughout the year excluding standing items January 2012 Group Strategic Review 2012-2015 Strategy Consideration of Board External Evaluation results and recommendations February 2012 Governance Review of Market perceptions of share price performance Investor Relations Review of Pre-Qualication Questionnaire for Rail bid Review of Stakeholder strategy rail bidding Financial and Risk Capital investment Management Approval of potential additional non-bank funding Group Policy Approval of Preliminary Announcement and Annual Report and Accounts for year to 31 December 2011 Commercial and Recommendation of final dividend for financial year 2011 Business Update report on UK Coach business May 2012 Review of progress on Rail bids Discussion of key information and financial risks re: German rail tender Approval of Communications and Investor Relations Strategy Approval of induction programme for new Non-Executive Directors Discussion of Board succession and potential candidates to full role of Non-Executive Director June 2012 Rail bids update: approval of German Rail bid Update on North American School Bus and Transit businesses Rail bids update July 2012 Review of due diligence and risks and approval of contract for acquisition of two transit businesses in the US Approval of half year results and interim dividend Review of BIS proposals on UK Directors remuneration Appointment of Jackie Hunt as a Non-Executive Director September 2012 October 2012 Spanish Division Review Approval of HR Strategy proposals for North America Consideration of appointment of new Chairman Approval of purchasing strategy for replacement coaches for Spanish eet in 2013 November 2012 Approval of 2013 budget Presentation on UK coach business Approval of appointment of new Chairman 56 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Following appointment Board oversight and benchmarking t Business brieng meetings with the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, and the Group Finance Director t The Board regularly and rigorously reviews and t Meetings with the Company Secretary to discuss the benchmarks operational and functional performance Group structure, the Companys constitution and Board procedures and terms of reference of the Board and t At each Board meeting the Board receives a report its Committees from the Group Chief Executive on operational performance, and from the Group Finance Director t Meetings with the Groups main stakeholders including on the financial performance of the Group as a whole major shareholders and fund managers and each of the Groups businesses individually t Meetings with senior management in the five divisions t The Board receives a presentation at each of its meetings from either a business Managing Director t Meeting with the Director of Safety for an overview or a functional head of the Groups health and safety policy and safety record t Meetings with the Groups auditors Performance evaluation Information and support An evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Reports from the Executive Directors, which include Committees is conducted annually.
In late 2011 an external in-depth financial information, are circulated to Board evaluation of Board performance was led by Geoffrey members prior to every Board meeting.
Senior management Shepheard of ICSA Board Evaluation.
The full results of and advisers make presentations to the Board on significant the Board evaluation were discussed at the Board meeting matters during the year.
Every effort is made to ensure in February 2012.
The Board concluded that, following that information reported to the Group Board is of high this comprehensive review, the Board and its Committees quality in terms of accuracy, quality, appropriateness, continue to operate effectively.
Actions implemented from comprehensiveness and currency.
Directors are able the 2011 performance review include: to seek clarification or amplication from management where necessary.
2011 Recommendations Actions Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretary t Remove pressure from the Non-Executive Directors are is responsible for ensuring Board procedures are followed Board schedule and allow scheduling their personal and applicable rules and regulations are complied with time for Non-Executives commitments to allow time and advises the Board on governance matters.
All Directors to meet on their own to meet on their own have access to the advice and services of the Company in advance of Board Secretary and the appointment or removal of the Company meetings Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
As well as the support of the Company Secretary, there is a procedure t Ensure a more regular Following a review the in place for any Director to take independent professional pattern of meetings meetings schedule was advice where considered necessary.
with a closer link to the adjusted Companys reporting and Induction of new Directors events calendar On appointment, Directors are offered training as t Circulate Board papers at There has been a clear appropriate and are thereafter encouraged to keep abreast least four days including improvement in the despatch of matters affecting their duties as a Director and to attend two working days before of Board papers and the training courses relevant to their role.
the Board meeting use of iPads and electronic An induction process is in place for new Directors, the aim dissemination of Board of which is to: papers via a secure Board portal is considered a real t build an understanding of the nature of the Company, advantage its business and the markets in which it operates t Strengthen the breadth The composition of the t establish a link with the Groups employees of skills and experience Board has been signicantly t build an understanding of the Groups main relationships around the Board table strengthened and contains including stakeholders and customers.
a balance of four UK and four international Non-Executives The following information is provided as part of the induction and ongoing training and development of Board Directors.
On appointment t Governance information in relation to the Group, including the terms of reference of the Board and its Committees t Guidance for Directors of British public companies generally including under the law, the UK Corporate Governance Code and the rules of the UK Listing authority t Board minutes covering the previous year t Information on key Group policies www.
com 57 Governance Corporate governance continued In September 2012 an internal evaluation of Board Institutional shareholders effectiveness was conducted by Stephen Connock, The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Group HR Director, via a questionnaire circulated to all the Director have held a number of meetings with existing and Directors.
The results of the internal review were discussed prospective institutional shareholders during the year as at the November Board meeting.
The Boards discussions well as given presentations following the full-year and halfhighlighted a number of areas of strength and it was felt that year results.
They have also met and given presentations the Board continued to work well.
Areas identied for action to research analysts and stockbrokers sales teams.
The from the 2012 evaluation include the following.
Companys appointed brokers and investor relations advisors in turn have provided regular condential feedback 2012 performance review areas for action to the Company on the views of the major institutions.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other t Post implementation Increase focus on action Non-Executive Directors are also given the opportunity to audits plans arising from Board meet institutional shareholders and are available by contact decisions with clear through the normal channels.
During 2012 the Chairman responsibilities and and Senior Independent Director have both met with major timescales for shareholders to discuss the governance and direction resulting actions of the Company.
t Succession planning Further development of The Board is provided with regular updates on the views Board succession planning and issues raised by the Companys investors.
During the including an analysis of year the Board received external presentations from advisors the future composition on shareholder and market perception of the Groups of the Board performance and strategy.
Formal written responses are given to correspondence received from shareholders, Outcomes arising from this evaluation process will be further as well as bilateral engagement through the Group Chief reported on in next years Annual Report.
Executive, Group Finance Director and the Companys Relations with shareholders investor relations function.
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good Analyst coverage communications with the Companys shareholders to ensure The Company is aware of 19 analysts who have published mutual understanding of the Groups strategy, objectives, equity research notes covering National Express Group PLC governance and performance.
during 2012 and we provide names and contact numbers During the year shareholders are kept informed of of their rms on our website.
the progress of the Group through regular corporate Private shareholders communications: the Preliminary Announcement, We welcome contact from our private shareholders the Notice of Annual General Meeting, Interim Management and are pleased to answer their queries.
We encourage Statements and press releases regarding any other our shareholders to make use of our website to access significant developments, as well as the dissemination Company reports, Notices of meeting and general of regulated information.
Such communications are shareholder and dividend information.
The website also made available to the London Stock Exchange and are provides a direct link to Shareview shareview.
co. uk which simultaneously available on the Companys website enables shareholders to view and manage their shareholder nationalexpressgroup.
The Companys website houses wide-ranging information Annual General Meeting about the Group, including the Annual Report and Accounts, Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers press releases, share price data and links to subsidiary are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before company websites.
Last years Annual General Meeting included From time to time the Company invites research analysts a presentation by the Group Chief Executive on the progress and institutional investors to presentations and site visits of the business and an opportunity for shareholders to ask that are designed to provide more understanding of the questions.
All our Directors were available formally to answer strengths and capabilities of its business operations and questions during the meeting and many circulated and strategy.
In 2012 the Company hosted a visit to meet the talked to shareholders informally afterwards.
Voting on the local management team and tour the Spanish operations resolutions was conducted by poll.
Some 86% of the shares in Madrid.
in issue were voted and the resolutions were passed.
The results were published on the Groups website shortly Shareholders receive documentation such as the Annual after the meeting.
Report and Accounts electronically and also are able to cast their votes by proxy electronically.
The Company also has an We look forward to welcoming shareholders to our 2013 electronic proxy appointment service for CREST members.
Annual General Meeting and updating them on the progress of the business this year.
58 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Major shareholdings As at 25 February 2013, the Company had been notied of the following interests in its shares which represent 3% or more of the voting rights in the Company: Ordinary Percentage of Nature shares share capital of holding Elliott International L. P. The Liverpool Limited Partnership 112,741,469 22.03% Direct European Express Enterprises Ltd 87,095,062 17.02% Direct Prudential plc 66,764,762 13.04% Direct The holdings for European Express Enterprises Ltd are included in Jorge Cosmens holdings which are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 74.
com 59 Governance Corporate governance continued Audit Committee overview The Committee continued to monitor the Groups internal financial Dear shareholder controls and risk management systems.
Business continuity planning, The Audit Committee plays an important role in the governance of the IT systems and Treasury policies were all speci c topics which we Company and I am pleased to report to you on the work undertaken considered in 2012. by the Committee during 2012.
The performance of the internal audit function itself continues to be As usual, we have reviewed the integrity of the financial statements assessed on an ongoing basis and we believe it is effective in the role prepared for shareholders by management and the principal accounting it carries out.
matters and financial reporting judgements contained in them.
Examples include reviewing the accounting implications of the North American Towards the end of 2012 the UK Corporate Governance Code was acquisitions made in 2012 and considering the Groups annual goodwill updated and we will be ensuring that we take account of the new and intangible asset impairment review.
Deloitte LLP, our external auditor, requirements in 2013. con rmed they are satis ed with the treatment in the accounts of the signi cant areas of judgement.
Finally Jackie Hunt joined our Board in September 2012 and is now a member of the Committee: I believe her signi cant financial and Deloitte LLP were appointed as the Companys auditor on 14 June UK public company experience will be of great value to the Committee 2011 following a tender process and we took the opportunity to review in the coming years.
We believe the auditors have performed satisfactorily since taking on the role and that the audit process they implemented was effective.
We continue to consider Deloitte LLP to be independent and we were happy to recommend to the Board that they be put forward to be reappointed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Tim Score Audit Committee Chairman 28 February 2013 60 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements regarding audit tendering with a view to ii the level of non-audit fees paid to the The role of the Audit Committee ensuring compliance with any requirements external auditor in the year as a proportion The terms of reference of the Audit Committee going forward.
Notwithstanding the above, the of the annual external audit fee.
comprise the duties and tasks delegated to Committee regularly considers the marketplace, it by the Board and include the following: The majority of non-audit work undertaken benchmarking the current level of audit services by the external auditor during the year relates t overseeing the process for selecting the the Company receives along with the fees to advice in respect of tax advisory and external auditor, assessing the continuing it pays and the value being delivered.
These items the independence of the external auditor and Company last put its external audit contract out Committee believes would be impractical recommending approval of the audit fee to tender in 2011, following which Deloitte LLP and costly to provide through another party.
to the Board: were appointed as the Companys auditor.
The split between audit and non-audit fees t responsibility for ensuring that provision Re-appointment of auditor for the year ended 31 December 2012 appear of non-audit services does not impair As a result of its work with Deloitte LLP during in note 6 to the Consolidated Accounts.
the external auditors independence or the year, the Committee has concluded that objectivity: it is satis ed with their performance and has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP Audit Committee members t liaising with the external auditor on matters be re-appointed.
relating to the nature and scope of the audit Name of Director Position and any issues or concerns arising from Review of independence Tim Score Chairman, Senior the audit process: Independent Director of external auditor t reviewing effectiveness of the Companys The Audit Committee assesses and reviews on Sir Andrew Foster Non-Executive Director internal control and risk management a regular basis the independence of the external Jackie Hunt Non-Executive Director systems, including the internal audit auditor.
As part of their determination the Audit appointed 13 September programme and major findings identi ed from Committee considers a report by the external 2012 internal audit investigations and reviews: and auditor on the rms independence which is Chris Muntwyler Non-Executive Director required in order to carry out their professional t reviewing the half-year and annual financial duties and responsibilities as auditor.
statements including accounting judgements and policies.
Policy on auditor providing Main activities during the year non-audit work The Audit Committee routinely considers a The Committee has an approved policy on the During the year the Committee number of standing items during the year such provision of non-audit services by its auditor for considered the following: as consideration of the internal and external the following types of service: audit reports, review of the Annual Report t Review of compliance with the UK and Accounts, review of the preliminary and Corporate Governance Code t services that are considered to have general half-year announcements, and review of the pre-approval by the Audit Committee, by t Review and approval of internal audit Corporate Governance Report.
virtue of the approval of the policy: plan for 2012 The Committee met three times in 2012.
Details t services that require speci c pre-approval, t Review of the Group Risk Register of attendance at these meetings can be found on a case-by-case basis, before any work on page 56.
Outside of the meeting process can commence: and t Update on business continuity planning the Committee Chairman has regular contact t services that cannot be supplied by the t Review of IT strategy with the Executive Directors, other Committee external auditor prohibited services.
members and the auditors on a variety of t Approval of updated Treasury Policy topics.
The Committee itself meets with the The services that have general pre-approval are external auditor at least once a year without t Review and update of Policy tax, transaction investigation and advisory and Executive Directors being present.
on Provision of Audit and corporate finance services.
The fees for these Non-Audit Services services are pre-approved up to 50,000 for At the invitation of the Committee, and as each non-audit assignment undertaken and appropriate to the matters under discussion, t Consideration of the results of internal subject to an overall limit of 75% of the total meetings may be attended by the Executive audit compliance testing of financial fees paid to the external auditor.
For services Directors and internal and external auditors.
controls Annual Fitness Checks exceeding this limit speci c pre-approval Full minutes are kept by the Secretary of the within the subsidiaries is required.
matters considered and decisions taken t Review of the external auditors fees by the Committee.
In deciding whether or not to grant approval for t Review of financial statements and the provision of speci c services by the external Tendering frequency accounting policies auditor, the Audit Committee includes in its of external auditor consideration the following factors: The Committee currently has no set policy on the tendering frequency of their external i whether the external auditor is best placed auditor or of the tenure of their external auditor.
to provide an effective and ef cient service, The Committee will monitor developments given its familiarity with the Companys in UK and European Union best practice processes, systems and people: and www.
com 61 Governance Corporate governance continued Nomination Committee overview Sir John Armitt stood out.
The Board subsequently accepted Dear shareholder recommendations by the Committee for the appointment of both I have been asked by Sir John Armitt to address you on the work Jackie Hunt and Sir John Armitt and I am pleased to welcome both undertaken in 2012 by the Nomination Committee, as he did not join to the Board of National Express Group PLC.
I am also pleased to announce that Joaqun Ayuso joined the Two signi cant areas of work undertaken during the year by the Nomination Committee on 26 February 2013.
The Committee now Committee were in respect of the appointment of Jackie Hunt to comprises a majority of independent non-executive directors as the Board as a Non-Executive Director and the appointment of Sir prescribed by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
John Armitt as our new Chairman.
The search process for our new Chairman, was led by Tim Score, the Senior Independent Director.
In addition, the Committee also reviewed the succession plans for John Devaney did not chair the Nomination Committee discussion the senior executive positions across the Group.
that recommended to the Board the appointment of Sir John Armitt.
External search consultants were retained to help the Committee in the Further details about the role of the Committee, its activities and search processes: Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann were retained on the membership are set out below.
Non-Executive Director search and Spencer Stuart were used for the Chairman search.
Neither of these consultants has any connection with the Company.
As part of the process in both cases, draft speci cations were drawn up for these roles and the members of the Committee interviewed the short-listed candidates for both appointments.
The Committee was pleased with the quality of candidates that emerged Sir Andrew Foster through the selection processes and from which Jackie Hunt and Nomination Committee Member 28 February 2013 Nomination Committee members Succession planning Main activities during the year The Nomination Committee carried out a Name of Director Position detailed review of talent management and During the year the Committee: Sir John Armit Chairman appointed 1 succession planning across the Group, January 2013 and as Company facilitated by the Group HR Director at a t evaluated the balance of skills, Chairman on 1February 2013 meeting in November 2012. experience, independence, diversity Joaqun Ayuso Non-Executive Director and knowledge on the Board and then appointed 26 February 2013 Diversity prepared a description of the role and Our goal at National Express is for our people Jorge Cosmen Non-Executive Director capabilities required for the role of to reach their full potential and to give of their Non-Executive Director John Devaney Chairman resigned 31 January best as individuals and in teams.
In this context, 2013 t appointed search consultants to we are committed to never discriminating on Sir Andrew Foster Non-Executive Director identify a shortlist of candidates for the grounds of race, veteran status, colour, the role of Non-Executive Director and creed, disability, religion, ethnic origin, sex, interviewed candidates following which sexual orientation or age.
While maintaining The role of the Nomination Committee the appointment of Jackie Hunt was our existing policy of selecting the best available The key responsibilities of the Nomination recommended to the Board candidate for any position, National Express Committee are summarised below: is content to set the aspirational target that by t evaluated the experience and attributes t responsibility for identifying and nominating, 2015, 30% of the Board will be women, in line required of a new Non-Executive for the approval of the Board, candidates to with the recommendations of the Davies Report Chairman and then prepared a ll Board vacancies as and when they arise: on Boardroom Diversity.
description of the role and capabilities sought for the role speci cation of t giving full consideration to succession Non-Executive Chairman planning, and keeping under review the leadership needs of the organisation, both t appointed search consultants to Executive and Non-Executive: identify a shortlist of candidates for the role of Non-Executive Chairman and t reviewing the time required from and spent interviewed candidates following which by a Non-Executive Director on ful lling his or the appointment of Sir John Armitt was her duties: and recommended to the Board t leading the process for Board appointments t reviewed succession plans across and making recommendations to the Board: the Group and preparing a description of the role and requirements for any particular appointment based on its evaluation of the Board as a whole.
62 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Safety & Environment Committee overview A Group-wide review of the management of environmental matters was Dear shareholder undertaken, which resulted in the adoption of a new strategic plan and I am pleased to report that in 2012 we continued to make good progress new targets being set.
in our safety performance and in the management of the Companys environmental responsibilities.
It is likely that it will be mandatory for UK public companies to report on greenhouse gas emissions in all of their businesses from 2014 and During the year Miranda Curtis retired from the Board and I would like we have therefore started work to put in place the processes to collect to thank her for the contribution she made to this Committee, especially the required data.
during her time as Chairman of the Committee.
Both Jackie Hunt and Sir John Armitt have joined the Committee and I look forward to their The safety of our employees and customers is of critical importance ongoing involvement.
to the Board, as is the responsible management of our environmental obligations.
I would like to thank Dean Finch and his team for the The Committee oversaw the roll out of the next stages of our Driving Out leadership they show in these areas.
Twelve global safety standards have now been adopted and we are seeing evidence of the bene cial impact these are having across the Group in improving our safety performance.
The Driving Out Harm programme was externally audited by Arthur D. Little and they reported that signi cant improvements had been made Chris Muntwyler in safety leadership and systems.
They also reported that effective Safety & Environment Committee Chairman governance of safety was being provided.
28 February 2013 Safety & Environment Committee The Role of the Safety & Environment Main activities during the year members Committee The key responsibilities of the Committee are During the year the Committee: Name of Director Position as below.
Sir John Armitt Company Chairman appointed t monitored progress of implementation to the Board and Committee t responsibility for reviewing and challenging of the Groups Global Safety Standards on 1 January 2013 and as constructively the structure, content and Chairman on 1 February 2013 t assessed progress of the Groups operation of the safety management Driving Out Harm safety programmes Joaqun Ayuso Non-Executive Director arrangements put in place by members of the executive management of the Groups Jorge Cosmen Non-Executive Director t reviewed the findings of the external operating companies: audit of corporate governance of safety Miranda Curtis Non-Executive Director resigned 10 May 2012 t reporting periodically to the Board on its t visited Group locations to review safety observations on the safety management John Devaney Company Chairman practices and procedures resigned 31 January 2013 arrangements in place and reviewing and making recommendations to the Board t reviewed environmental management Sir Andrew Foster Non-Executive Director on any speci c safety management issues across the Group Jackie Hunt Non-Executive Director relating to the Company or any subsidiary appointed 13 September 2012 t approved safety and environmental company: and targets for the Group Chris Muntwyler Chairman t reviewing and monitoring the Companys Lee Sander Non-Executive Director environmental performance and targets.
Tim Score Independent Director www.
