Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 74 75 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Corporate Governance The Corporate Governance Policy of NWR world.
This includes a commitment to and the Nomination Committee.
ensuring that Directors receive all the reviewing reports on any material Audit and Risk is based primarily on the UK Corporate follow the highest standards of corporate The members of the committees are information and support necessary to breaches of risk limits and the Governance Code and also complies governance throughout the Group.
carry out their role, including adequate adequacy of proposed actions as well Management Committee with the spirit of the broad requirements This section of the annual financial report induction and training.
The Chairman has as compliance issues: ARMC report of corporate governance codes in the describes how the Company has applied Attendance at Board meetings including authority to act and speak for the Board advising the Board on conflicts of Czech Republic and Poland.
The policy the main principles set out in the the strategy meeting and committee between its meetings, and, together interests, related party transactions Bessel Kok Chairman formulates the standards of governance UK Corporate Governance Code.
meetings during the year is outlined below.
with the Chief Financial Officer, acts and loans to Directors: Hans-Jrg Rudloff that NWRs Board of Directors intends Please note that a Director who appointed as the main point of contact between reviewing the adequacy and security to uphold and ensures the maintenance Attendance at Board and committee an Alternate Director to attend the Non-Executive Directors and senior Barry Rourke of the NWRs arrangements for raising of a coherent and effective system meetings meeting in his stead, was treated as having management of the Group.
The Chairman concerns about possible wrongdoing Steven Schuit of governance.
The policy can be found There are six committees of the Board: attended the meeting for the purpose also decides on certain executive matters in financial reporting or other matters: at www.
the Audit and Risk Management of the below table.
once the Board has granted him authority.
reviewing the NWRs procedures for Committee: the Remuneration Committee: detecting fraud and bribery and their the Finance and Investment Committee: The Companys policy is to achieve best Contrary to provisions of A.
2.1 of the UK prevention and any breaches arising practice in its standards of business the Safety, Health and Sustainability Corporate Governance Code, the Company under the Code of Ethics and Business integrity in all its activities around the Committee: the Real Estate Committee has appointed Mr. Penny as an Executive The ARMC is staffed solely by Independent Conduct and the Business Integrity Chairman, who exercises the role of the Directors to reflect the independent nature Policy: Chief Executive Officer and Chairman.
of the work that the ARMC undertakes.
approving the remit of the risk Audit and Finance Safety Health NWR Board Risk Management Remuneration and Investment and Sustainability Real Estate Nomination The fusion was intensely discussed by the management function and ensuring it 2 meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Nomination Committee during the course The Board has determined that ARMC has adequate independence, resources 10 6 6 5 4 5 6 of 2012, and NWR continues to believe that members are independent and have and appropriate access to information 1 the presence of an Executive Chairman the skills and experience necessary to to enable it to perform its function Gareth Penny 2 2 1 2 is appropriate to provide strategic and contribute meaningfully to the ARMCs effectively and in accordance with the Marek Jelnek 10 5 operational leadership and balance at deliberations.
In addition, all members relevant professional standards: Zdenk Bakala 8 5 4 Group level in the Group structure which have requisite experience in accounting monitoring the effectiveness of the Peter Kadas 6 5 is strong at the operating company level.
Whistleblower Procedure within the The presence of majority shareholder Group: and Klaus-Dieter Beck 10 4 representatives on the Board, who were Main responsibilities advising the Board on proposed Pavel Telika 10 consulted prior to the appointment, The role of the ARMC is to ensure the strategic transactions including Kostyantin Zhevago 5 alongside Independent Non-Executive integrity of financial reporting and acquisitions or disposals, ensuring Directors guarantees that there are the audit process and to ensure the that a due diligence appraisal of the Bessel Kok 10 5 6 6 appropriate checks and balances in place.
effectiveness of the internal audit and proposition is undertaken, focusing Hans-Jrg Rudloff 9 3 5 risk management systems.
To this end, in particular on risk, before a decision Steven Schuit 10 6 4 5 The authority to achieve NWR Groups the ARMC of NWR supports and advises to proceed is taken by the Board.
Paul Everard 9 4 5 corporate objectives has been delegated the Board in its work by: to the Chief Financial Officer of NWR, For the responsibilities towards the Barry Rourke 10 6 5 6 Marek Jelnek.
He is responsible for external and internal auditor, please see overseeing the integrity of Directors who resigned in 2012 the Group finance and administration, consolidated financial statements and below External Audit and Internal Audit.
2 Mike Salamon 9 4 3 4 and reports to the NWR Board and its consolidated accounts: 3 Hans-Jrgen Mende 0 Executive Chairman.
He oversees the In addition, the Board has delegated to reviewing with the Board and planning, financial control, accounting, auditors the integrity of the financial the ARMC the authority to approve of the Attendance of Mr. Fabin is not included as he has been appointed as a Director with the effect as of 1 January 2013.
1 restructuring, mergers and acquisitions, statements and other formal Companys quarterly financial statements Mr. Penny has been appointed as a Director with effect as of 3 September 2012 and has attended all Board and Committee meetings taking place after his appointment.
2 Mr. Salamon resigned effective as at 30 September 2012 and thus did not attend the November meeting of the Board and Finance and Investment and Nomination Committees.
strategic expansion, and investor relations and half yearly financial statements, announcements relating to NWRs 3 Mr. Mende submitted his resignation already in December 2011 well before the date of the first Board meeting in 2012.
Thus, he did not attend any Board meeting in 2012. functions throughout the Group.
He is also financial performance: with such authority to be valid subject to responsible for ensuring that financial and advising the Board on audit, further renewal until 31 December 2013. other information disclosed publicly is Meeting of Non-Executive Directors Chairman, Gareth Penny, who succeeded Non-Executive Directors assist accounting and financial disclosure The Non-Executive Directors, except for Mike Salamon in October 2012. in developing NWRs strategy and also timely, complete and accurate.
matters regarding the Real Estate Activities undertaken during the year Mr. Zhevago, also met once during 2012 As at 31 December 2012, the Board had monitor the performance of Executive Division of NWR: In 2012, the ARMC met six times.
NWRs From 1 January 2013, Jn Fabin Chief Financial Officer attended all without Executive Directors being 12 members in total.
Of these, three Directors and Group management.
reviewing the effectiveness of present to discuss the performance of were Executive Directors and five were Non-Executive Directors are entrusted succeeded Klaus-Dieter Beck, as Chief the systems for internal control, meeting of the ARMC.
The Groups internal the Boards Chairman and other Executive Independent Non-Executive Directors.
with such duties as are or will be Executive Officer of OKD, and Chairman compliance, budgeting, forecasting auditor and the external audit partners of OKDs board of directors.
Jn Fabin is observed all meetings of the ARMC, except Directors.
The session was chaired by the This composition will remain the same determined by or pursuant to the Articles and financial reporting of the Senior Independent Director.
following the change which came into of Association or a resolution of the Board.
responsible for the operation of OKD and NWR Group, ensuring both qualitative for the extra-ordinary ARMC meeting effect on 1 January 2013, appointment also he reports to NWRs Board.
During and quantitative metrics are used, held in January 2012.
The Group Risk the course of 2012 Jn Fabin oversaw Manager regularly attended the Committee Directors of Mr. Fabin as new Executive Director The Chairman facilitates the work of and ensuring procedures for Composition of the Board and the one which will become the Board and ensures its effectiveness the operations of NWR KARBONIA and OKK identifying strategic and business meetings to discuss the identified Group NWR has a one-tier Board comprising both effective on 31 March 2013 Mr. Becks in all aspects of its role.
Assisted by the and reported about them to the Board.
risks are in place: top risks accompanied, as necessary, by the appointed risk holders.
In accordance Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
resignation from his positions in the Company Secretary, the Chairman is The Board is presided over by its Executive NWR Group.
responsible for setting the Board agendas, with its charter, the ARMC also met with Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 76 77 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Corporate Governance the external audit partner as well as with the relevant applicable accounting of the Board members of the individual outsourced.
In line with its charter, the the internal control and risk management offences, violation of law, intentionally Group entities.
The external auditor did not Groups Internal Auditor continues to be system.
This supports the Board in wrongful behaviour, manipulation of with the Groups internal auditor without standards.
Further to a recommendation information, misconduct and reports management present.
The Committee of the ARMC, Group financial policies identify any significant issues.
responsible for developing and overseeing discharging its responsibility for ensuring received a detailed presentation and procedures have been consolidated the implementation of consistent internal that the wide range of risks associated of suspected breaches of the Business The ARMC assesses the effectiveness, auditing policies within the Group, with the Groups operations are effectively Integrity Policy.
The Company Secretary focusing mainly on the following risks: to enable adequate oversight of internal acts as confidential adviser for NWR environmental damage, machinery control over financial reporting and the objectivity and independence of the delivering the audit plans and audit managed to safeguard shareholders availability, personal risk, competency risk budgeting process.
external auditor, taking into consideration assignments, preparing internal audit investment and the Groups assets.
and its subsidiaries and is responsible UK professional regulatory requirements, charters and reporting on Group risk for investigating reports of suspected and reputational risk.
The ARMC is responsible the ARMC recommended for approval by Payment policy: As regards the payment its terms of engagement, audit plan, scope management and internal control.
NWRs risk management policy, which the Board that the Groups internal audit of creditors, the policy applied by NWR of work and the review process.
The ARMC The Groups Internal Auditor reports to applies to all Group entities, sets out for establishing and reviewing the has primary responsibility for making the ARMC and its Chairman in the high level objectives of the Groups Whistleblower Procedure and is informed function be moved in-house.
as well as the Group is to agree credit of reported cases through regular reports terms prior to commencement of trading.
recommendations to the Board, for it to particular on the key findings of the risk management, risk evaluation, The ARMC reviewed NWRs quarterly, Subject to any items of genuine dispute, put to the shareholders for their approval completed audits and the status of their documentation and reporting processes.
In 2012, at the AGM, on the reappointment and implementation to the ARMC.
He has all The risk management policy can be found one report was provided to the ARMC.
semi-annual and annual financial it is Group policy to pay creditors within The ARMC also reviewed the reports statements, including the press releases the terms agreed.
Trade creditors of removal of the external auditor.
With necessary access to organisational units on the NWR website at that accompanied them.
The ARMC the Company as at 31 December 2012 regard to the external auditor, the ARMC and their management and the right to http: www.
eu nwr prepared by NWRs subsidiaries, in is further responsible for approving its request information and explanations.
discussed these statements with the were equivalent to 47 days purchases, external auditor.
While discussing the compared to 49 days in 2011. remuneration and terms of engagement, annual and semi-annual results, it also scope of its work, approving the audit plan The Group Internal Auditor has a local The ARMC was kept updated and reviewed The whistleblower rules can be found internal audit team at OKD, which in particular the following risks identified on the NWR website at recommended for approval by the Board External audit and reports and monitoring of provision the payment of the final 2011 dividend NWR is a company incorporated in England of non-audit services to NWR and its assesses whether the internal control, by the Group for 2012: http: www.
eu en and interim 2012 dividend.
The Committee and Wales, with its headquarters in the subsidiaries and the related fees, in order risk management, and governance corporate-governance policies.
processes are adequate and effective.
health and safety: reviewed the 2013 budget during its Netherlands and operations located in the to preserve the independence of the November 2012 meeting.
Czech Republic and Poland, therefore the external auditor.
The team reports to the senior CSR and environmental damage: The ARMC believes that it carried out all English, Dutch, Czech and Polish offices management team and the audit personnel availability and competency: the responsibilities set out in the ARMCs committee of OKD.
Annual reports are price: charter and finds the charter adequate.
Integrity of financial reporting of the external auditor must be highly In 2012, the external auditor provided The ARMC assists the Board in ensuring involved in the audit process.
Except for NWR with services in relation to the submitted to OKDs audit committee, licensing: the integrity of financial reports to an extra-ordinary meeting held in January bond issue by NWR NV, assisted with the the board of directors and the supervisory reputational: Remuneration Committee board of OKD.
With both functions now corporate social responsibility: shareholders, bondholders and banks by 2012, the representatives of the external considered change of presentation of reviewing the budget, and together with auditor attended all meetings of the ARMC.
the income statement captions and also in-house and sharing common personnel, reporting requirements: RC report the external auditor, the quarterly and advised on certain tax aspect in relation the OKD internal audit team works closely machinery availability: and with the Groups Internal Auditor.
half-yearly statutory and consolidated The external auditor provided the ARMC to NWR KARBONIA.
With knowledge of Bessel Kok Chairman financial statements, preliminary with regular status reports on its audit work these services, the ARMC concluded The internal audit functions at NWR and Zdenk Bakala announcements and press releases based on the approved 2012 audit plan.
that the independence of the external OKD have aligned audit processes on both The risk assessment and reporting criteria Hans-Jrg Rudloff levels and supervised implementation are designed to provide a consistent, related thereto.
Following a preliminary risk assessment, auditor was safe-guarded and the external the 2012 audit plan focused on the auditor is taking measures to preserve its of their audit recommendations.
Internal Group-wide perspective of its key risks.
The ARMC receives regular reports from identified key risks for the NWR Group, independence.
audit in the Polish operations is carried out by the Group internal audit function.
The ARMC has a crucial role in stating its the Real Estate Committee and the Health, having critical financial statement impact, Safety and Sustainability Committee considering its external and internal Management responses to issues raised opinion and making proposals to the Board on their activities to ensure adequate business environment.
Similarly to last are discussed with the Chief Financial The main responsibilities of the ARMC on all matters where a potential conflict regarding the Group internal audit is to of interest exists between NWR, its oversight by the ARMC of all key Group year these included in particular mining Officer.
The reviews of the ARMC confirmed risks.
The ARMC also regularly receives damages and closure provisions, expense that all significant matters had been make recommendations to the Board on Directors, its controlling shareholder and performance updates, treasury reports and treatment concerning the Dbiesko satisfactorily resolved in 2012. the appointment and dismissal of the other shareholders.
No potential cases of The Committee consists of Non-Executive Group Internal Auditor, reviewing the remit conflict of interest were examined by the information on the Companys legal affairs, project, impairments for property, plant Directors appointed by the Board.
M&A transactions, Group tax position and and equipment inventories, taxation, hedge Following this process, the ARMC of the Group internal audit and the annual ARMC in 2012.
Independent Directors, including the insurance policies.
accounting, employee benefits, share based recommended that the Board puts to audit plan, and ensure that the internal Chairman of the RC, form majority of the audit function is adequately resourced.
For further details on risk management, payments and related parties.
The audit the shareholders for their approval the RC members.
The ARMC reports to the Board on plan and the reports have been reviewed appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as the The ARMC also assesses the performance including the Directors review of the and approved by the ARMC.
external auditor at the AGM on 26April 2013 of the Groups Internal Auditor on an effectiveness of internal controls, please its discussions and submits its To further promote the independent role annual basis.
As the ARMCs Chairman see Risk management on pages 28 to 33. recommendations to the Board for in Amsterdam in the Netherlands.
of the RC, Mr. Kok, Senior Independent approval.
The ARMC has the authorisation The ARMC is also responsible for reviewing is a member of OKDs audit committee, Director, took over the chairmanship related party transactions against internal Internal audit the connection between the ARMC and Whistleblower Procedure to approve the Companys quarterly and from Mr. Bakala, a major shareholder the audit committee of OKD provides for The Whistleblower Procedure is appended half yearly financial statements.
Related party As of 1 January 2013, the Group internal representative, who is not considered to be transactions are audited by the external audit function has been reorganized and adequate monitoring and communication.
to NWRs Code of Ethics and Business independent.
Contrary to provision D. 2.1. auditor as part of the Group audit.
These going forward will be carried out in-house Conduct and enables employees to Financial policies of the UK Corporate Governance Code express, on a confidential basis, concerns At NWR consolidated level, the financial typically include transactions between with Petr Hanzlk becoming the Group Risk management, internal control Mr. Bakala remains a member of the RC.
statements are produced under IFRS the Real Estate Division and the Mining Internal Auditor.
From November 2008 and compliance over the conduct of Directors, officers, Due to his unique insights into Division, transactions between the Group until 31 December 2012 the internal The ARMC is responsible for overseeing management and other employees.
whilst the subsidiaries of NWR produce shareholders demands, the Board These include suspicions of criminal their stand-alone accounts in accordance entities and related party transactions audit function at the Group level was Group risk management and reviewing continues to perceive his membership Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 78 79 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Corporate Governance of the RC as critical to the further determined whether the performance The members of the FIC have changed joining NWR she worked as EU Funds For both CSR and HSE matters, the SHSC Safety, Health and is responsible for: alignment of executive remuneration with conditions set up for options granted during the course of 2012, with Mr. Penny Director at Erste Bank and as a director shareholders interests.
on under the Stock Option Plan and joining the FIC to replace Mr. Salamon of the EU department at the Office of Sustainability Committee granting of the annual bonus under who retired from the Board.
the Government of the Czech Republic.
reviewing the policies and systems SHSC report Main responsibilities Deferred Bonus Plan for 2011 were met: Sustainability Manager Tom Rak, also within the Group for ensuring The RCs primary role is to set the approval of the participation of certain Main responsibilities attended several meetings.
compliance with applicable social, Paul Everard Chairman remuneration for the Executive Directors Group employees in the Deferred The main functions of the FIC are: health, safety, environment, legal and of the Board, the Chairman of the Board Bonus Plan in the bonus year 2012: Gareth Penny Main responsibilities regulatory requirements as well as for and the Groups senior managers and advise setting the Group-wide performance reviewing and presenting NWR Groups The SHSCs main role is in the area effective and positive employee and Klaus-Dieter Beck the Board in relation to its responsibilities criteria for 2012 and those for an annual budget to the Board: of sustainability and sustainable community relations: Jn Fabin with respect to the remuneration of the Executive Director participating in the reviewing, approving and recommending operations.
According to its charter, the liaising with the ARMC to ensure Steven Schuit Non-Executives Directors.
to the Board all major strategic or SHSC assists the Board in its oversight adequate oversight of the Groups financial investments and divestments of corporate and social responsibilities systems for managing the CSR and The RCs main functions are: In connection with the appointment and other major capital decisions: with a special emphasis on health, safety HSE risks: of a new Executive Chairman, the RC has reviewing the adequacy of NWR and environmental risk within NWR and reviewing and, if appropriate, making setting the remuneration for the approved the terms of appointment of Groups capital structure: The SHSC consists of the Executive its subsidiaries as well as the Groups recommendations to the Board on the Executive Directors and the Chairman Mr. Penny.
The RC also revised the CFOs advising on relationships with Chairman, one Executive Director, compliance with applicable legal and areas of CSR and HSE, and others.
of the Board and their contractual terms and approved the extension of his banks, rating agencies and financial Non-Executive Non-Independent Director regulatory requirements associated with terms, including share-based incentive notice period to three months.
At the level institutions: and two Independent Directors.
Activities undertaken during the year plan payments, pensions rights and of OKD, the RC thoroughly examined the providing oversight and guidance on In 2012, the SHSC met four times and compensation payments if any : remuneration of OKDs CEO and approved funding and treasury management: and The composition of the SHSC changed The SHSCs main duties in the CSR conducted its regular site visit to the producing an annual summary for the the package of Mr. Fabin who became making decisions on all matters during the course of 2012, with area are: OKD mines in the Czech Republic noting Board of the Companys remuneration the Executive Director and assumed related to NWR subsidiaries.
Mr. Penny joining the SHSC to replace a visible improvement to the quality of policy and remuneration practices, that the position of OKDs CEO.
As regards Mr. Salamon who retired from the Board.
monitoring and reviewing the internal POP longwalls there.
which will form the basis of the the remuneration of senior management Activities undertaken during the year On 14 March 2013, Mr. Fabin became policies and systems within the Group Remuneration Report of the Board, of the Group, at the RCs proposal, In 2012, the FIC met five times.
Exercising a member of the SHSC which he used to for implementing the sustainability At its meetings, the SHSC reviewed the which itself forms part the Companys the Board changed the Deferred Bonus its regular duties the FIC made decisions attend on a regular basis in his former role programmes, frameworks and health, safety and environmental reports Annual Report and is put to shareholders Plan to increase the long-term share regarding financial and operating matters of NWR Chief Operating Officer.
Also due objectives: of NWRs core operations in particular at their annual general meeting: incentive for senior managers.
The of NWRs subsidiaries, including changes to his resignation from the Board, Mr. Beck monitoring and reviewing the Groups by OKD and OKK.
Throughout the year, preparation of proposals to the Board on: RC also approved certain good leaver in the subsidiaries boards.
It also closely will cease to be a SHSC member as at performance in relation to sustainability the SHSC also received detailed reports proposal under the Stock Option Plan.
monitored the financial and operational 31 March 2013. matters and follow up on the on extraordinary events and fatalities, the remuneration policy no member The RC also discussed and agreed to the results of the Group, and in particular achievement of the respective key always reviewing the cause and potential of the RC may participate in any change of its Chairman.
Further details the Groups debt position.
In the light of Meetings of the SHSC were attended performance indicators and targets: preventive measures.
OKDs CEO kept the discussions or make proposals in on remuneration may be found in the the maturity profile of the Groups debt, by two external mining experts, overseeing preparation of SHSC informed of the Groups 2012 Safety respect of his own remuneration : Remuneration Report on page 96. the FIC discussed a new bond issue by and members of the OKDs board sustainability reports as well as Campaign focusing on safety in the work the individual salary levels, bonuses the Group.
In November, 2012 the Chief of directors, Stan Suboleski and a stand-alone CSR section : and place, in particular through education and other benefits for the Groups The RC is of the opinion that it has carried Financial Officer and the new Executive Karl Friedrich Jakob and Head supporting stakeholder dialogue and training of employees.
The SHSC senior managers, as the case may be: out all the responsibilities set out in the Chairman presented the FIC with of Corporate Communications and and engagement on sustainability scrutinised the breathable dust exposure contractual terms for the Committees charter.
a strategy outlining different scenarios Sustainability at NWR, responsible performance.
in the mines and ways to reduce it, Non-Executive Directors of the that could be pursued by the Company.
including technologies and practices used for the sustainability matters for the Board: and The FIC reviewed the Groups 2012 budget whole NWR Group, Petra Manov.
The SHSCs main duties in the HSE area in the US and German mines.
As regards Finance and Investment share-based incentive plans.
and also, in November 2012, the Groups Stan Suboleski is currently Senior continue to be to: the environmental matters, air pollution 2013 budget: both were recommended for in the Ostrava region was discussed at the Committee FIC report Vice President of Evan Energy Activities undertaken during the year the Boards approval.
Investments and alsoserves on the Board overseeing the Groups performance SHSC, as OKK was involved as one of the The RC met six times during 2012, applying of Inter-American Coal Company.
He was on health, safety and environmental regional industry players.
To the SHSCs Peter Kadas Chairman The FIC is of the view that its composition matters: satisfaction, OKKs operation is well within the principles of the Companys previously a Commissioner with the Zdenk Bakala Compensation Manual and exercising its is appropriate and that its members have US Federal Mine Safety and Health reviewing reports and meeting with the limits imposed.
Gareth Penny duties under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
For carried out all duties and responsibilities Review Commission.
Karl Friedrich Jakob senior management of the subsidiaries Marek Jelnek set out in the charter.
to discuss the effectiveness of the The SHSC saw to the preparation of the more details on the Compensation Manual held numerous prominent managerial and the Deferred Bonus Plan, please refer positions in Germany as well as Groups policies and systems for first ever Sustainability Report 2011 to the Remuneration Report on page 96. international mining companies and identifying and managing material of NWR which meets the highest HSE risks: and GRI standards.
The SHSC looked at also worked for the German State Mining The Committee performed its regular Authority.
At the present time Mr. Jakob monitoring the impact of operations the structure, format and content of annual duties, including: is a president and CEO of the RWTUEV on the Groups reputation.
the Sustainability Report 2011 and recommended it for approval by the Board.
Mrs. Manov worked until the review of the remuneration of the The members of FIC are appointed by 4 February 2013 as the Head of Corporate Executive Directors and the fee levels for the Board and include Executive and Communications and Sustainability The SHSC believes that it has successfully fulfilled its duties and responsibilities set the Non-Executive Directors in 2011 and Non-Executive Directors and NWRs Chief at NWR and as the Chief PR and found them appropriate also for 2012: Financial Officer.
Before out in its charter.
Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 80 81 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Corporate Governance In line with its responsibility for supervising operations, they are required to seek prior Main responsibilities effective as of 1 January 2013, the NC Directors.
The Board believes that the Real Estate Committee approval from the Board, after the REC current proportion of the Independent transactions between the Mining Division The main functions of the NC are: expressed its support for Mr. Fabin taking and the Real Estate Division, the has provided its advice to the Board, when over and recommended his appointment Non-Executive Directors is adequate given REC report REC continued to monitor real estate proposing to enter into transactions which: reviewing the structure, size and to the Board.
The NC performed the 2011 the ownership structure of the Group.
Moreover the quality and deployment of transactions of NWRs core operations, i are not considered by the Board to be composition including the skills, Board in-house evaluation and initiated Barry Rourke Chairman including transactions with third parties.
in the ordinary course of business of the knowledge, experience and diversity of the 2012 evaluation in co-operation with these Directors ensures Board effectiveness.
Steven Schuit The REC also looked into a long-term Real Estate Division: or ii relate to assets the Board and making recommendations an external evaluator - Corporate Training The Independent Non-Executive Directors Paul Everard are entrusted with the key tasks that require building demolition plan for certain mining of the Real Estate Division, which have to the Board with regard to any changes: Partnership Ltd which has no other areas.
In 2012, all proposed transfers of real a book value of 5 per cent or more of the making recommendations to the Board relations with the Company.
Reviewing the independence: staffing of the Audit and estate were approved by the Board as well total book value of the assets of the Real concerning succession planning for structure and composition of the Board, the Risk Management Committee, which ensures the integrity of financial reporting as by the holder of the B shares.
both Executive and Non-Executive NC also took notice of the diversity with put forward a new Real Estate Transaction Directors and in particular for the key particular focus on gender and recognising and monitors the audit functions as well as Policy unifying the practice of conducting The Divisional Policy Statements as well roles of the Chairman of the Board and its importance intends to put forth new potential conflicts of interest, and staffing of the Real Estate Committee, which real estate transactions irrespective of how as the Book of Procedures dealing with the the Chief Executive Officer and senior measures in support of diversity.
The REC also reviewed accounting aspects of the Divisional Policy managers of the Group: protects the interest of holders of A Shares The REC is wholly composed of the process of securing and maintaining Statements, have been implemented by identifying and nominating for the The NC is of the view that its composition and B Shares.
The Independent Directors also chair the Remuneration Committee Independent Directors appointed by the the rights of mining under land belonging to NWRs core operations.
Compliance is approval of the Board, candidates to is appropriate and that its members have Board.
monitored by the REC through monthly fill Board vacancies and evaluating carried out all duties and responsibilities and form its majority, thus monitoring reports received from the Company the balance of skills, knowledge, set out in the charter.
The NC also the remuneration and incentives for key executive.
The same applies to the Main responsibilities In the light of the progress made with Secretary who has been designated to act experience and diversity gender considers its charter to be adequate.
The role of the REC is to oversee the assets the disposal of the assets registered in as an intermediary between the REC, NWR on the Board, and, in the light of this Nomination Committee, which oversees and liabilities of the Real Estate Division and the Real Estate Division and the strategy and its subsidiaries.
evaluation preparing a description Board Effectiveness Boards composition and effectiveness.
However, the Nomination Committee the interaction between the Mining Division concerning the remaining assets going of the role and capabilities required Director independence and the Real Estate Division of NWR.
In its forward, the REC discussed its role and The Divisional Policy Statements are for a particular appointment: and The Board determines whether or not will look into ways to accommodate this advice the REC endeavors to ensure that concluded that it remains important to available on NWRs website at reviewing the results of the Board a Director is independent, based on the provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which was also recommended in the the interests of NWR and its shareholders safeguard the balance between the A and http: www.
eu en performance evaluation process that independence criteria contained in NWRs of each separate class of shares have B Shareholders rights.
relate to the composition of the Board: Corporate Governance Policy.
been identified and adequately taken and shall not be deemed to be independent Director appointment and into consideration.
The REC supports and The REC further reviewed, on a regular basis, The REC believes that it has carried out making recommendations to the Board if the Director concerned or his wife advises the Board in its work by: P&L accounts of the Real Estate Division.
all the responsibilities set out in the RECs on re-election by shareholders of her husband, registered partner or other re-appointment charter.
Directors under the annual re-election life companion, foster child or relative Both the Company by ordinary resolution and the Directors have the power at any advising the Board on matters The REC regularly reported to the Board and provisions of the UK Corporate by blood or marriage up to the second regarding the Real Estate Division the ARMC on its activities and findings.
Governance Code and the retirement degree has been an employee of the NWR time to elect any person to be a Director, but Nomination Committee of NWR except in relation to audit, by rotation provisions in NWRs Articles Group within the last five years: receives the number of Directors shall not exceed the maximum number fixed by the Articles accounting and financial disclosure Divisional Policy Statements NC report of Association.
personal financial compensation from matters, which fall within the remit of The Divisional Policy Statements were any NWR Group company other than the of Association of the Company.
Any person the ARMC : adopted by the Board on 8 April 2011 Activities undertaken during the year compensation received as Director: has so appointed by the Directors shall retire Barry Rourke Chairman at the next Annual General Meeting and monitoring interactions between the with effect from 6 May 2011.
They refer to In 2012, the NC met six times, mostly to had an important business relationship Bessel Kok Mining Division and the Real Estate the Mining Division and the Real Estate discuss the succession planning in respect with NWR or a company associated with shall then be eligible for election.
Under the Gareth Penny Division that were originally created within of the Executive Chairman of the Board.
The it in the year prior to the appointment: Articles of Association each Director shall Division and all transactions affecting the assets of the Real Estate Division the NWR Group on 31 December 2007.
NC considered the split of the role into the holds a cross-directorship or has any retire at the Annual General Meeting held in with third parties and advising the a Group CEO and non-executive chairman significant links with other Directors the fourth calendar year following the year The Divisional Policy Statements have been and decided that in the light of the Group through involvement in other companies in which he was elected or at such earlier Board in respect thereof: developing and interpreting the prepared and adopted on the basis that the structure and functioning, the existence or bodies where these cross-directorships Annual General Meeting as the Directors Divisional Policy Statements, Mining Division has the right to maintain: of the role of the Executive Chairman is or links would materially interfere with may decide.
The office of a Director shall be i the undisturbed continuation of its preferable.
The NC also looked at potential the Directors objective, unfettered or terminated on the occurrence of any of the proposing amendments, providing guidance on provisions and overseeing mining, coking and related operations that successors inside and outside of the independent judgment or ability to act in events listed in article 81 of the Articles of its implementation: and are conducted on certain assets of the The members are appointed by the Board Group to Mr. Salamon who announced his the best interests of NWR: holds directly Association.
The Company, by an ordinary Real Estate Division: and ii unrestricted retirement.
Given the limited and known pool or indirectly more than 10 per cent of the resolution, may, in accordance with its overseeing NWR subsidiaries and include Executive and Independent compliance with the Divisional Policy access to such assets of the Real Estate Directors.
of candidates meeting the specified criteria A Shares or B Shares: or is a member of Articles of Association, remove any Director Statements.
Division in connection with such mining, neither an external search agency nor open the management or supervisory board or from office and elect another person in coking and related operations.
advertising has been used the search for the senior management of an entity, place of a Director so removed.
The composition of the NC changed during Activities undertaken during the year the course of 2012, with Mr. Penny joining new Executive Chairman contrary to provision which holds directly or indirectly at least During 2012, the REC met five times and The Divisions operate separately for the NC to replace Mr. Salamon who retired B 2.4 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, 10 per cent of the A Shares or B Shares.
In accordance with the UK Corporate accounting and reporting purposes.
Under in connection with the appointment.
These Governance Code, the Directors are intend NWRs Chief Financial Officer attended all from the Board.
Later in 2012, Mr. Rourke meetings.
All meetings were held as a joint the Divisional Policy Statements, OKD and took the chair over from Mr. Kok who efforts resulted in a recommendation to Contrary to provision B.
1.2 of the ed to be subject to annual reelections.
meeting with the Real Estate Committee the other subsidiaries of NWR carry out the stepped down due to accumulation of the Board for the appointment of Mr. Penny UK Corporate Governance Code, less than In any case, all Directors will resign at the day-to-day operations of the Real Estate as new Executive Chairman.
In connection half the Board, excluding the Chairman, forthcoming AGM on 26 April 2013 and will of NWR NV.
chairmanships Mr. Kok is also a chairman Division.
In carrying out such day-to-day of the ARMC and RC.
with Mr. Beck stepping down as OKDs CEO comprises of Independent Non-Executive offer themselves for re-election.
Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 82 83 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Corporate Governance NWR Board Composition as at 1 January 2013 To assist with the Directors appointment and has contributed with his extensive Mr. Rourke, as a former audit partner, brings to the Board his vast expertise in the area and re-appointment, NWR has a Nomination knowledge of and experience with Committee, which is responsible the international financial and capital of financial review and integrity.
He has Gareth Penny for identifying suitable candidates for markets and their practical impact overseen the Real Estate Divisions, making Executive Chairman sure that the interests of both A and B appointments to the position of Director of the business of the Group.
Based on his and evaluating the balance of skills, regular involvement with the broad range Shareholders are adequately protected.
Mining strategy & restructuring knowledge, experience and diversity of investors, he delivered market feedback Full biographical details of each Director of members of the Board.
on Groups performance to the Board.
Marek Jelnek Jn Fabin are given on pages 69 to 73.
Executive Director Executive Director Following the external evaluation of the As experienced investors and Board conducted between April and shareholders representatives, Messr.
Information and professional development Finance capital markets Mining & coking operation November 2012 by Corporate Training Bakala and Kadas provide the Board Directors undergo a tailor-made induction Partnership Ltd, the results of which with their M&A know-how and valuable process upon joining the Board.
They have 1 Bessel Kok Klaus-Dieter Beck were also discussed by the Nomination insights into shareholders requirements, full access to a regular supply of financial, Independent Director NonIndependent Director Committee, the Board was satisfied in particular on further development operational, strategic and regulatory that throughout 2012 each Directors projects, strategy and remuneration.
information to help them discharge their Finance CE region Coal mining operation performance continued to be effective and This facilitates alignment of the Board responsibilities.
Much of this information that each Director continued to demonstrate with shareholders interests.
is provided in presentations by senior Steven Schuit Paul Everard commitment to the role, and recommends management and through the normal Independent Director Independent Director the re-election of each oft the Directors To cover the cross-boarder nature of the management reporting process.
They also NWR Board standing for re-election at the forthcoming Groups business and potential future have access to training and seminars in Corporate governance Mining safety & health AGM.
The expertise and experience of growth opportunities, Mr. Telika provides respect of their duties as Board members.
the Directors standing for re-election is his knowledge of EU affairs and international In 2012 all Board members attended an Barry Rourke Pavel Telika described in more detail below.
political scene and Mr. Zhevago anti-bribery training seminar.
Independent Director NonIndependent Director contributes with comparative knowledge Board expertise of the Ukrainian coal market.
Directors are also entitled to seek, at Finance audit & review International & EU affairs The Board has the appropriate skills and NWRs expense, independent professional experience necessary to discharge its As Senior Independent Director, Mr. Kok advice where they judge it necessary.
Hans-Jrg Rudloff Kostyantin Zhevago functions.
Executive and Non-Executive capitalizes his top managerial experience To this effect, the Board and its Committees Independent Director NonIndependent Director Directors have the experience required and knowledge of the CEE market, have retained legal, compensation, mining, to contribute meaningfully to the and brings to the Board an independent internal audit and general advisors in 2012.
Finance global banking International coal market Boards deliberations and resolutions, view on the situation in the region where including international operational and the Group operates.
As Chairman of the Company Secretary Peter Kadas Zdenk Bakala financial experience, knowledge of the Audit and Risk Management Committee, In 2012 Lucie Vvrov acted as Company NonIndependent Director NonIndependent Director mining sector and capital markets, as together with the other Independent Secretary, appointed by the Board since well as command of health, safety and Directors, Messr.
The Company Secretary M&A strategy M&A strategy sustainability issues.
Rourke, they brought to the Board strong is responsible for advising the Board on independent control of financial reporting all governance matters and ensuring that Mr. Penny is a recognised and experienced and risk management.
Board procedures and functions comply professional in the international mining with relevant laws and regulations, and as sector and brings to the Board his deep Mr. Rudloff is a renowned and experienced such, the Company Secretary, inter alia, experience in many aspects of the mining banker having detailed and accurate administers, attends and drafts minutes business.
His particular contribution is in the information about the global financial of Board meetings, its committees and area of strategic initiatives and restructuring.
market, its developments and sentiments, the general meetings of Shareholders, and He provides the Board with strategic and which he shares with the Board.
discharges such other responsibilities the NVR Board Composition organisational leadership at the Group level.
Board has assigned to her.
With his extensive legal background, Chairman 1 Independent Directors 5 Mr. Fabin has a considerable technical and Mr. Schuit contributes in particular in the Board effectiveness and evaluation Executive Directors 2 NonIndependent Directors 5 areas of corporate governance, ethics The Board engaged Corporate Training operational knowledge of the mining and coking operations, gained not only during whistleblower procedure and compliance Partnership Ltd which has no other 12 his long track record with the Group.
Given where he focuses on combating fraud relations with the Company to conduct an and bribery.
external evaluation of its performance and 5 his last position as Groups COO, he has an excellent overview of the safety, health the performance of individual Directors and and sustainability trends and issues.
He Further to his numerous executive posts Chairman at that time still Mr. Salamon.
with BHP Billiton, Mr. Everard provides his The evaluation included a detailed provides leadership at the operational level.
5 independent opinion on health, safety questionnaire and interviews with the Mr. Jelnek, as CFO, continues to be on and sustainability risks which the Group Directors, Company Secretary and Jn 1 Mr. Beck resigned from the Board is facing as well as other challenges faced Fabin at that time still the Groups COO.
top of the capital financing of the Group, as at 31 March 2013 and will not stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
leading a new bond issue by NWR NV by its mining business.
The results were collected by the external Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 84 85 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Corporate Governance evaluator and presented in generic form to Secretary, and directors and company to it is the Whistleblower Procedure, only provide reasonable not necessarily actions available including accelerating the credit analysts and NWRs shareholders, which is a reporting mechanism enabling absolute assurance of effective operation sale of its inventories, reducing operating bondholders and potential new investors.
the Chairman Mr. Penny, discussed at the secretaries of associated companies to As part of this process, the Boards Nomination Committee and then presented be indemnified, to the extent permitted by employees to express concerns to the and compliance with laws and regulations.
costs, factoring receivables and further to the Board in January 2013. law and subject to certain exemptions, Boards Chairman, Senior Independent reducing deferring capital expenditure, Chairman, Chief Financial Officer, as Director and the designated officer in Underpinning these reviews is an annual which it believes would provide sufficient well as other Directors and Investor against any liability incurred in connection Relations team meet with shareholders The main conclusion was that NWR is a well with any negligence, default, breach of duty relation to the conduct of NWR, its officers process by which responsible senior liquidity until at least 31 March 2014. run company with good solid governance or breach of trust by him in relation to the and employees.
To confirm its commitment management personnel confirm the and other market participants in the to the high standards of conducting adequacy of the systems of internal financial Based on this analysis, the Directors are UK, US, the Czech Republic, Poland and in place.
The culture is professional and Company or any associated company of the other European countries on a regular international with the subsidiaries culture Company.
No amount has been paid under business and combating fraud and bribery, and non-financial controls, compliance of the opinion that the NWR Group has being well balanced with Executive any of these indemnities during the year.
the Board has also adopted the Business with Group policies and relevant laws and adequate financial resources to continue basis to discuss the Groups performance, Integrity Policy.
regulations and that they have reported operating for the foreseeable future strategy and governance.
Additionally, Directors also from the Czech Republic The Company has purchased Directors and presentations to investors and analysts who contribute their knowledge and Officers insurance during the year.
In broad any control weaknesses to the Audit and that is until 31 March 2014 and that it is experience of local industry.
The Company terms, the D&O insurance policy protects, The core operations of NWR have Risk Management Committee.
therefore appropriate to continue to adopt take place at the time of quarterly, interim implemented a corresponding procedure.
the going concern basis in preparing the and final results as well as sector and has a strong management team, inter alia, private assets of directors and broker conferences that the Company Non-Executive Directors and Independent officers against financial losses from legal To increase the effectiveness of the system, The internal control framework has been in financial statements.
Non-Executive Directors of a high calibre liability claims filed against such directors OKD has modified the whistleblower operation throughout 2012 and continues to participates in throughout the year.
procedure so that complaints are operate up to the date of the approval of this Insider trading and with a wide breadth of knowledge.
or officers arising out of alleged wrongful The Board receives regular reports from It has benefitted from the leadership acts or omissions, either committed or now dealt with by an independent Annual Report.
The Directors believe that In compliance with relevant laws, rules of an excellent Chairman over the last attempted in the capacity as a director internal committee.
The Audit and Risk the Group maintains an effective, embedded and regulations of the UK, the Czech the Investor Relations department on Management Committee monitors, system of internal controls and complies with Republic and Poland, the Company has changes to the shareholding structure, five years.
The evaluator also noted the or officer of the company.
D&O insurance analyst coverage of the stock, feedback exemplary focus on health, sustainability typically does not cover claims relating to through reports received from the the Turnbull Report guidance and, in the view a Share Dealing Code that covers dealings and stakeholder engagement.
IPO or other securities claims, arising out Company Secretary, the effectiveness of the Directors, no significant deficiencies in NWRs shares and other securities, from investors including market perception of the procedure.
Further details can be have been identified in the system.
disposal of inside information and studies, share trading statistics and other if or in connection with public offers of The main recommendations of the external securities: in this area the Company and found in the report of the Audit and Risk disclosure of information relating to the information about the views of the capital evaluation concerned the composition NWR NV takes out standalone insurance Management Committee on page 75.
Further information about the ways in which securities by the Directors and certain markets.
we manage our business risks is set out in employees of NWR Group.
The document of the Board, where an appointment policies for Public Offer of Securities POSI.
of a further Independent Director was The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct the Risk management section from page 28, restricts dealings during designated The Corporate Communications team is advised as well as due consideration Accountability and the Whistleblower Procedure, as which also contains a list of the principal prohibited periods and at any time that responsible for both external and internal risks and uncertainties that we face.
the Directors and employees are in corporate communications as well as the of diversity gender requirements.
Conflict of interest well as the Business Integrity Policy are These recommendations were noted The Corporate Governance Policy sets available on NWRs website at possession of unpublished price-sensitive corporate social responsibility policy of NWR.
and will be further looked into starting out the rules for dealing with conflicts www.
The Share Dealing Code has The Group manages its liquidity through cash been implemented throughout NWR Group The financial reports, press releases, in 2013.
NWR has already implemented of interest.
Directors are required to the recommendation to appoint an immediately report any conflict of interest Risk management and internal controls EUR 267 million 2011: EUR 537 million and and is monitored by NWRs Compliance regulatory announcements, investor Independent Director as the chairman or potential conflict of interest that is The Board has overall responsibility for a EUR 100 million Revolving Credit Facility Officer.
A copy of the document can be presentations and other information undrawn at 31 December 2012 which found on NWRs website at on matters of interest to investors can of the Remuneration Committee.
of material significance to the Senior the Groups system of internal controls Independent Director, and shall provide all and risk management policies and is is available until February 2014, subject to www.
be found on the Companys website at Competing Engagements relevant information, including information also responsible for reviewing their compliance with certain covenants.
Articles of Association According to the Corporate Governance concerning a related party.
The Board is supported Policy, a Non-Executive Director should Independent Director has a conflict of in this area by the work of the Audit and In anticipation of not being able to meet The Articles of Association of the Company Senior Independent Director have no more than five board memberships interest or potential conflict of interest Risk Management Committee.
the requirements of one of the covenants were adopted by a special resolution passed The Senior Independent Director, Bessel at the end of the first quarter, the on 8 April 2011 and may be amended by Kok, is available to shareholders if in other companies with chairmanship of that is of material significance, he should For further details see the Audit and Risk a publicly listed company board counts immediately report to the Board and Management Committee Report on pages Company is currently negotiating revised a special resolution at a general meeting they have concerns, which the Boards double not related between themselves, provide all relevant information.
75 to 77 During 2012, the Directors have terms for both the ECA and RCF including of shareholders.
Chairman, the Vice-Chairmen or the Chief suspension of covenants testing.
Financial Officer have not resolved, so that the proper performance of his continued to review the effectiveness of her duties is assured.
Full-time Executive The Audit and Risk Management the system of controls, risk management NWRs Articles of Association are available or if they have concerns related to Board Directors may not be members of the Committee is responsible for making and the Groups high-level internal controls Should the negotiations fail, the ECA loan on NWRs website at independence.
In 2012, Mr. Kok had one would have to be repaid and the RCF would www.
meeting discuss the Boards composition.
board of more than two listed companies recommendations to the Board on processes.
These reviews have included unrelated to the Group, nor can they be potential conflicts of interests and related an assessment of internal controls, and not be available to the Company.
Based on its chairmen of the board of a FTSE 100 listed party transactions.
Directors do not take in particular, financial, operational and base case forecasts the Company does not Relations with shareholders Share capital, controlling shareholder believe that it would need to borrow further Market disclosure and relations with BXR Mining B. V. BXRM remains the company.
The acceptance by an Executive part in the assessment by the Audit and compliance controls and risk management Director of a board membership in a listed Risk Management Committee of whether and their effectiveness, supported funds until at least 31 March 2014, whether shareholders majority shareholder of NWR, with the a conflict of interest exists.
by management assurance of the or not the ECA and RCF remain available.
The Board regards effective communication ultimate parent company being BXR Group company requires the approval of the with shareholders as a priority.
Other important non-executive maintenance of controls, and report from positions held by an Executive Director Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Group Internal Audit and from the external However, if the currently depressed coking BXRM held 63.58 per cent of NWR A Shares.
In addition to its Corporate Governance auditor on matters identified in the course coal prices do not improve which the Radek Nmeek, Head of Investor shall be notified to the Board.
Relations, is responsible for the external Full details on the changes in the Policy, NWR has adopted a Code of Ethics of its statutory audit work.
The system of Directors consider to be highly unlikely the Directors indemnity and insurance and Business Conduct, which governs the internal control is designed to manage Group would, absent mitigating actions, financial communications of NWR.
shareholding structure of NWR occurring behaviour of all officers and employees rather than eliminate the risk of failure need further funding before that time.
Together with his team, he manages in 2012 may be found in the Shareholder The Articles of Association provide for the ongoing dialogue with equity and information section on page 168. the relevant officers Directors, Company of NWR and its subsidiaries.
Appended to achieve business objectives and can The Company has a number of mitigating Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 86 87 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Corporate Governance 100 per cent of the B Shares are owned Czech Corporate Governance Code Rule I.
Each member of the Supervisory the Company aims to ensure that the Directors Rule III.
5 A member of the Supervisory Board Any transactions with related entities are by RPG Property B. V. which is the indirect NWR is not obliged by the Czech National Board should act in the interests of the are present at General Meetings of should not resign from this function if this action monitored by the Audit and Risk Management subsidiary of BXRG.
Bank or the Prague Stock Exchange to Company and form independent decisions and Shareholders the General Meeting, it cannot could have a negative impact on the Supervisory Committee established by the Board which comply with the Czech Code of Corporate judgments, and in particular: guarantee that all Directors will be present.
Boards capacity to act, including adoption of receives reports from the external auditor.
The Board is satisfied that NWR is Governance.
resolutions by the Supervisory Board.
The Committee advises the Board and capable of carrying on its business refuse to accept unreasonable benefits, Rule III.
1 In addition to its responsibilities examines such transactions to ensure they independently of BXRM BXRG and that all Although NWR does not apply the Czech which could have a negative impact on the laid down in legal provisions, the Supervisory This rule is observed by all members of the comply with the arms length requirements transactions and relationships between Corporate Governance Code as such, independence of his or her opinions and Board should: single-tier Board.
3. them are transparent and are carried the Code is generally similar to the judgments: and out independently.
The Board makes its UK Corporate Governance Code and any raise explicit objections and separate once a year, prepare and present to the Rule III.
6 At least two members of the As required by the Resolution No.
1013 2007 of decisions in a manner consistent with material deviations are similar to those opinions in any case when he or she deems Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Supervisory Board should meet the criteria the WSE dated 11 December 2007, a description its duties to NWR and stakeholders of described above.
that the decision of the Supervisory Board is a brief assessment of the Companys of being independent from the Company of other relevant information may be found on NWR and gives equal consideration to contrary to the interest of the Company.
standing including an evaluation of the and entities with significant connections the following pages of this Annual Report: the potentially divergent interests of the Polish Corporate Governance Code internal control system and the significant with the Company.
The independence criteria holders of both classes of shares in NWR.
The Company observes the majority Rules I.
7 do not relate to the Company risk management system: should be applied under Annex II to the Operations and main powers of the General of the principles of corporate governance since it has a single-tier board structure.
However, review and present opinions on issues Commission Recommendation of Meeting, shareholders rights and the exercise To ensure that all transactions and contained in the Code of Best Practice for the requirements of these Rules are substantially subject to resolutions of the General Meeting.
15 February 2005 the Recommendation thereof are described in Shareholder relationships between the Company and Warsaw Stock Exchange Listed Companies similar to those for Non-Executive Directors under on the role of non-executive or supervisory information section on page 168.
1 BXRM and the wider BXRG group are on the WSE Code.
Certain principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code While the Company does not have a Supervisory directors of listed companies and on the arms length terms, the Company is party the WSE Code may only be applied to the which the Company complies with.
Board, the above responsibilities are performed committees of the supervisory board.
Composition and operations of the managing to a Relationship Agreement with BXRM.
Company to the extent permitted by the various committees established by Irrespective of the provisions of point b and supervising bodies of the Company If a conflict arises between BXRM and the by and where compatible with its status Rule II.
4 A member of the Management Board the Board, which are intended to assist with of the said Annex, a person who is an and their committees are described in the Company, the Directors with a conflict of as a public company, incorporated in should provide notification of any conflicts the performance of its duties regarding internal employee of the Company or an associated Corporate Governance Report on pages 7481. interest will take no part in the Boards the United Kingdom, under the laws of of interest which have arisen or may arise, to control and risk management mechanisms.
company cannot be deemed to meet the decisions on that matter.
For further England and Wales.
In particular, the WSE the Management Board and should refrain from independence criteria described in the Annex.
Detailed description of the Principal Risks and information see the Certain relationships Code assumes that a company will have taking part in the discussion and from voting Rule III.
2 A member of the Supervisory Board In addition, a relationship with a shareholder Uncertainties may be found on pages 2833. and related party transactions section separate supervisory and management on the adoption of a resolution on the issue should submit to the Companys Management precluding the independence of a member on page 88. boards whereas the Company has a single which gives rise to such a conflict of interest.
Board information on any relationship with a of the Supervisory Board as understood in this board consisting of both Executive and shareholder who holds shares representing not rule is an actual and significant relationship Directors report Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Non-Executive Directors.
Therefore, the In order to avoid any conflicts of interest the less than 5 per cent of all votes at the General with any shareholder who has the right to The Directors report, which has been The AGM is an opportunity for Company only complies partially is unable prepared in accordance with the Company has adopted a Corporate Governance Meeting.
This obligation concerns financial, family, exercise at least 5 per cent of all votes at the shareholders to communicate with the to comply fully with Rules I.
6, Policy the Policy, enabling the Board to and other relationships, which may affect the General Meeting.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006, Board.
The Chairman will aim to ensure III.
19 of the WSE Code concerning the perform both its management and supervisory position of the member of the Supervisory Board comprises the following sections: that the respective Chairmen of the Board supervisory board and its members.
In cases functions in an effective and transparent on matters decided by the Supervisory Board.
As at the date of this statement, five out committees are present at the AGM where the Company is unable to comply with manner.
Under the Policy, Directors are of 10 Non-Executive Directors meet the Strategy to answer shareholders questions.
certain principles directly, it endeavours to required to report any potential conflict of The one-tier Board structure means the independence criteria.
Business Review The next AGM will be held on 26 April 2013, comply with the spirit of such principles.
interest to the Senior Independent Director Company cannot directly observe Rule III.
Corporate Governance at 10:00 CET in Amsterdam, or to the Board as the case may be.
8 Annex I to the Commission Shareholder information the Netherlands.
is a conflict between an Executive Director Rule III.
3 General Meetings should be Recommendation of 15 February 2005 on the Ancillary information for shareholders 1 The WSE Code requires companies listed on and the Company, the General Meeting may attended by members of the Supervisory Board role of non-executive or supervisory directors Compliance with corporate governance the Warsaw Stock Exchange to publish appoint another person for decisions relating who can answer questions submitted at the of listed companies and on the committees and has been signed on behalf of the Board.
standards a detailed statement on any non-compliance to the transaction involving the conflict.
of the supervisory board should apply to the UK Corporate Governance Code or partial compliance with the WSE Code.
English company law, the Board is also subject tasks and the operation of the committees of In accordance with the UK Corporate The Company is also required to indicate to the statutory directors duties regime under As with the requirement for the Management the Supervisory Board.
Lucie Vvrov Governance Code and the Listing Rules of the ways in which it eliminates possible the UK Companies Act 2006: in particular Board to attend, it is the intention of the Board Company Secretary the UK Listing Authority, NWR follows the consequences of such non-compliance, or Section 175 which imposes a duty on directors that Directors attend the General Meetings Each of the five independent Non-Executive 25 March 2013 comply or explain approach and states describe steps, which the Company intends to avoid conflicts of interest and Section 177 and answer questions.
Directors of the Company must meet the in its Annual Report whether it complied to take to mitigate the risk of non-compliance.
requiring directors to declare an interest in independence criteria contained in the Policy.
or will comply with the principles of good During the year under review, the Company a proposed transaction or arrangement.
4 A member of the Supervisory Board The criteria are based on the best practice corporate governance set out in the complied with the WSE Code except in respect should notify the Supervisory Board of all requirements contained in the UK Code UK Corporate Governance Code and, of the following rules: Rule II.
6 General Meetings should be conflicts of interest, which have arisen or may and are typically more stringent than if it does not comply, NWR will explain attended by members of the Management arise, and should refrain from taking part in the requirements of the Commission the reasons for such non-compliance Rule I.
A member of the Supervisory Board Board who can answer questions submitted at the discussion and from voting on the adoption Recommendation of 15 February 2005 regarding in the relevant sections of this Annual should have appropriate expertise and experience the General Meeting.
of a resolution on the issue, which gives rise to the role of Non-Executive Directors.
Other than provisions A2.1, B1.2, and be able to devote the time necessary to such conflict of interest.
B2.4 and D2.1 discussed on pages 75, 77, perform his or her duties.
A member of the The Board places considerable importance on Rule III.
9 Execution by the Company of an 81 and 96, the Company has complied Supervisory Board should take relevant action effective communication with Shareholders.
The non-compliance with Rule III.
4 agreement transaction with a related entity, with the principles and provisions of the to ensure that the Supervisory Board is informed However, the presence of Directors at meetings is addressed by the statement made above which meets the conditions of section II.
about issues significant to the Company.
is not mandatory under English law and while in relation to Rule II.
4. requires the approval of the Supervisory Board.
Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 88 89 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Certain relationships and related party transactions The following are material related party d The Czech Republic.
In these OKD trading agreements Master Services Agreement Related to Master Agreement on the Sale of Methane a Non-Executive Director, is the OKD has entered into several agreements Mine Safety co-founder and director in charge of transactions and relationships being agreements, the carrier is AWT: and under which DPB is entitled to purchase contracts and arrangements with those e Austria, Greece and Slovenia.
with AWT in relation to the delivery of coal, OKD and DPB entered into a master all available methane not used by OKD for the Brussels office of BXL.
Under the entities owned by ultimate parent of This agreement, in which the carrier coke, sludge and other products.
In 2000, services agreement related to mine safety, its own use: and ii the transfer of OKDs Consultancy Agreement, NWR NV agreed OKD entered into purchase agreements covering a number of different services the Group, BXR Group Limited.
This is AWT echofracht, a. s. was originally energy equipment to NWR Energy, a. s. to pay BXL a monthly consultancy fee information shall be read in conjunction concluded between OKD with AWT under which AWT sells granulated related to mine security the Master NWR Energy as part of the spin-off of of EUR 25,000 in exchange for with the Note 9 to consolidated financial and METALIMEX, a. s. and assigned sediments to OKD.
The agreements were Services Agreement Related to Mine the Companys energy assets in 2008 the consultancy services in the field of originally made for a fixed period of time Safety.
The Master Services Agreement statements.
by METALIMEX, a. s. to Framework Agreement for Supplies of policies and legislation of the European AWT echofracht, a. s. and later extended for an indefinite period Related to Mine Safety is concluded for Methane for Heat Operations.
Pursuant Union and European Communities.
In OKD agreements of time.
The prices are adjusted annually.
a fixed period of time ending on to the preamble, DPB shall deliver the addition, NWR NV shall reimburse BXL The agreements further mention that the 31 December 2015.
The fee to be paid by AWT Transport Agreements Factory Railway Agreements processed methane to NWR Energy.
for all of its reasonable out-of-pocket OKD has entered into transport agreements OKD entered into several factory railway granulated sediments are resold to power OKD for 2007 was set at CZK 1,670,000 The price was set at a fixed amount for expenses.
The Consultancy Agreement with AWT relating to the transport agreements with Advanced World and heating plants operated by Dalkia per month and is reviewed annually.
The 2008 and 2009 and for the following years also provides for the payment, from time and EZ, a. s. fee to be paid by OKD for 2012 was set at of coal and other materials from NWR NV Transport, a. s. AWT to provide factory according to a formula stated in this to time as agreed between NWR NV to its largest customers the AWT railway transport at OKD mines for an CZK 1,717,693 per month in each case agreement.
The volume of delivered and BXL, of a success fee for the Transport Agreements and each an AWT indefinite period of time the Factory Master Services Agreements for Drilling excluding VAT, Conclusion of individual methane was stipulated for 2008. successful completion of certain tasks.
OKD and DPB entered into two master agreements with respect to each Transport Agreement.
The AWT Transport Railway Agreements and each a Factory The agreement has been entered into until The Consultancy Agreement may be Agreements are umbrella agreements Railway Agreement.
The fees to be paid services agreements for work whereby particular OKD mine are contemplated 31 December 2028, subject to the prior terminated, with or without cause, by covering periods of 4 years.
Under the by OKD to AWT were either set out in DPB shall provide OKD with drills for by this agreement.
either party upon one months prior written degasation and geological surveying the AWT Transport Agreements, AWT shall accordance with each respective Factory notice to the other party.
The Consultancy provide OKD with non-exclusive transport Railway Agreement or in a separate pricing Master Services Agreements for Drilling.
Master Agreements on the Sale Cooperation Agreement Agreement includes a confidentiality services.
The transport fees to be paid agreement for each calendar year, which Amendments to these Master Services of Methane on apartment lease clause that survives the termination of the Agreements for Drilling shall stipulate OKD entered into a master agreement by OKD to AWT are set out in the amended the particular Factory Railway OKD entered into a cooperation agreement Consultancy Agreement.
respective AWT Transport Agreement or Agreement s. Either party giving the drilling works and price list for the on the sale of methane with DPB, which with RPG Byty s. r. o. RPG Byty, in a price agreement for each calendar 18 months prior written notice to the other respective calendar year.
Individual envisages the conclusion of individual which owns and operates a large Certain Relationships agreements envisaged by these Master purchase agreements with respect to year amending the relevant AWT Transport party may terminate the Factory Railway apartment portfolio in the OKD region These relationships are material by their Agreement s based on the weight Agreements with or without cause.
Services Agreements for Drilling shall each OKD mine the Master Agreement on the Cooperation Agreement.
Under the nature, not by their financial effect.
The AWT Transport The Factory Railway Agreements have been stipulate the amount of work in detail.
Under the Master Cooperation Agreement, RPG Byty has an Agreement on the Sale of Methane, the Agreements may be terminated in the replaced by a single master agreement In 2011, the total amount of footage for obligation to initially offer its apartments Cross guarantee event of a material breach or, with between OKD and AWT with effect from degasation drills was agreed at 40.800 m minimum total annual volume of methane for lease to the employees of OKD.
Former OKD was a government- 3 or without cause, by either party giving 1 January 2011 for the period from 2011 to and for geological survey the total amount to be delivered amounts to 19,000 m The lease agreements may be concludedcontrolled enterprise, and as a result one month prior written notice to 2020 which will automatically be extended of footage was agreed at 14.570 m. In 2012, while the specific annual volume delivered only with employees qualifying under it owned and operated a large range of the other party.
In 2010, agreements for another five years, i. e. until 31 December the total amount of footage for degasation by the mines shall be stipulated by certain non-discriminatory criteria, businesses including mining businesses, were concluded pursuant to public 2025, provided that neither contracting drills was agreed at 28.620m and for e. g. not already being a tenant of another businesses ancillary to mining and the individual agreements.
The Master procurement tenders to transport coal party terminates the agreement by giving geological survey the total amount of Agreement on the Sale of Methane was RPG Byty apartment with state-regulated unrelated businesses.
The restructuring and coke with a group of AWT group six months notice of termination to the footage was agreed at 9.380m.
Both these concluded for the life of the OKD mines rent or not being subject to any criminal was concerned primarily with disposing companies.
These contracts duration other the OKD Master Agreement.
The Master Services Agreements for Drilling or other proceeding that could affect of certain of such ancillary and unrelated and, in the case of a change in the mine ranges from 1 January 2011 to 31 OKD Master Agreement covers all activities expire on 31 December 2015. owner or operator, OKD shall ensure common tenants obligations.
businesses in order to focus upon coal December 2014. to be provided by AWT to OKD at particular assignment of all OKDs obligations mining and coke production businesses.
business units, including: Agreements on Gaseous and Liquid Each lease is provided for a period In addition, steps were taken to arising under the agreement.
The price The agreements deal with railway Nitrogen Delivery was set at a fixed amount for 2007 and of one year and the rent is set at the streamline the corporate structure of the transportation of coal and coke in: a railway services and assurance of OKD has entered into four agreements then calculated for each calendar year relevant market price with a reduction BXR Group removing certain intermediary railway transport on factory railways: on gaseous and liquid nitrogen delivery of 15 per cent.
Employees shall bear no holding companies from the structure.
thereafter using a formula stated in the a The Czech Republic, where the coal b road transport and non-railway with DPB in relation to the delivery of agreement.
DPB is entitled to purchase administrative costs in relation to such In connection with the restructuring, and and coke is destined for export.
technological transport and gaseous and liquid nitrogen to OKD all available methane production not used leases.
The Cooperation Agreement pursuant to Czech law, OKD, Green Gas In these agreements, the carrier is an transportation of raw and washed mines, namely Darkov and Karvin mine will expire on 31 May 2015 and may be DPB, a. s. DPB, AWT, RPG Trading s. r. o. by OKD for its own use.
Either party may association of AWT echofracht, a. s. coal, sludge, etc.
including related the Agreements on Gaseous and Liquid rescind the agreement if the production rescinded by either party in the case defunct since January 2010, RPG RE and AWT: manipulations: Nitrogen Delivery.
The price to be paid of methane stops due to a decrease in coal of a material breach.
The Cooperation Land s. r. o. RPG RE Commercial s. r. o. and b The Federal Republic of Germany c railway technological transport by OKD to DPB shall be set out in Agreement replaces a similar cooperation RPG Byty s. r. o. the successor entities of mining activities or if circumstances of and the French Republic.
In these including related activities: and accordance with each respective a technical nature preventing performance agreement concluded on 18 April 2006.
Former OKD, are subject to a statutory agreements, the carrier is an d manipulation activities with coal and Agreement on Gaseous and Liquid of this agreement arise of which neither cross guarantee.
The statutory cross other materials.
Nitrogen Delivery or amendments to it.
Agreements with Directors guarantee was given by each successor association of AWT echofracht, a. s. party was aware when entering into the and AWT: In addition, OKD shall pay a fixed monthly agreement.
entity in relation to the liabilities of the c The Republic of Poland.
In these All of the above activities are dealt fee for the lease, maintenance and control Consultancy Agreement demerged entity Former OKD that were with in subcontracts, which concern of the gas tubing and surface equipment.
NWR NV entered into a consultancy assumed by each successor entity on the agreements the carrier is AWT.
OKD In addition to the Master Agreement on has an agreement with Metalimex, a. s. specific conditions for particular time The majority of the Agreements on the Sale of Methane, DPB and OKD agreement with BXL Consulting Ltd date of the demerger.
The cross guarantee who has an agreement with Express periods.
Please note that the OKD Gaseous and Liquid Nitrogen Delivery entered into a framework agreement for BXL in respect of certain consultancy of each successor entity is limited to the Master Agreement does not deal with terminate on 31 December 2015. services provided by BXL to NWR NV the value of the net assets of the guarantor Slovakia, a. s. who has an agreement supplies of methane for heat operations with the carrier, AWT: transportation of coal to customers.
in connection with: i the provisions of the Consultancy Agreement.
Pavel Telika, as at the effective date of the demerger.
Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 90 91 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Related party transactions Similar statutory cross guarantees have The Relationship Agreement shall continue arisen as a result of the spin-off of until the earlier of, in each case in relation OKK Koksovny, a. s. formerly known as to the Group: i NWR Plcs shares ceasing OKD, OKK, a. s. OKK, a wholly owned to be admitted to the Official List and to subsidiary of NWR NV.
trading on the London Stock Exchange: or ii in case of change of control concerning Relationship Agreement NWR Plc.
The Company, BXRM, Crossroads Capital Investment Inc. CCII and Zdenk Bakala Co-operation agreement between RPGI are bound by a relationship agreement, and Ferrexpo which regulates, in part, the degree In October 2008, RPG Industries s. r. o. of control that BXRM and its affiliates RPGI, a member of the BXR Group, exercise over the management of the purchased a shareholding of 25 per Company as amended and or restated, cent minus one share in Ferrexpo Plc the Relationship Agreement.
Ferrexpo, a Ukrainian iron ore company The principal purposes of the Relationship the Ferrexpo Transaction.
In connection Agreement is to ensure that NWR Plc with the Ferrexpo Transaction, Ferrexpos is capable at all times of carrying on its controlling shareholder Fevamotinico business independently of the Sarl, a company incorporated with limited BXR Group: and that all of the Companys liability in Luxembourg Fevamotinico transactions and relationships with the and RPGI entered into an agreement BXR Group are on arms length terms.
in which the parties agreed to pursue a strategic alliance whereby RPGI and Pursuant to the Relationship Agreement, Fevamotinico would seek to find areas in BXRM, on the one hand, and the which they could work together to develop Company on the other, undertake that their respective businesses in Central and they shall and shall procure that their Eastern Europe.
As part of such strategic relevant subsidiaries shall conduct alliance, RPGI and Fevamotinico agreed any transactions and relationships to ask NWR NV and Ferrexpo, respectively, whether contractual or otherwise, to consider working together to explore including any subsequent amendment strategic opportunities to develop thereof or variation thereto, including the business together in Ukraine, implementation or enforcement thereof the Czech Republic, Poland and other between BXRM or any of its subsidiaries, territories.
A further aspect of the on the one hand, and the Company or any strategic alliance was for each of RPGI of its subsidiaries, on the other, on arms and Fevamotinico to nominate persons to length terms.
The Company undertakes be appointed to the board of directors that it shall treat all holders of the same of the others affiliate, being NWR NV and class of shares that are in the same Ferrexpo, respectively.
Miklos Salamon, position equally in respect of the rights the former Executive Chairman of NWR attaching to such shares.
NV, and Marek Jelnek, the Chief Financial Officer of NWR NV, were appointed as CCII and Zdenk Bakala undertake that non-executive directors of Ferrexpo, and they shall give notice to the Company of Kostyantin Zhevago, the Chief Executive any opportunities involving the potential Officer of Ferrexpo, was appointed as acquisition of a controlling stake in a Non-Executive Director of NWR NV.
a business primarily focused on coal Mr. Jelnek retired from the board of mining or coking facilities in Central and Ferrexpo in May 2010.
In connection with Eastern Europe.
The Company shall have the redomiciliation, Mr. Zhevago resigned first right, for a period of 30 days from from the board of NWR NV and was notification, to pursue the opportunity appointed as a Non-Executive Director of NWR Plc with the effect from 6 May 2011. and neither CCII nor Zdenk Bakala may pursue the opportunity within those 30 days unless the Company decides not to pursue it.
