Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 66 67 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Corporate Governance Highlights of 2012 Main activities of the Board in 2012 Nomination Committee and Remuneration New Executive New CEO of OKD Changes in the In 2012, the Board of NWR met ten times, Committee have been changed with both including aspecial two-day strategy of these Committees now being chaired by Chairman and Executive Remuneration meeting in Ostrava where the core operation an Independent Director.
The Board Director and Nomination continued to hold joint meetings with the During the strategy meeting in Ostrava, Committees board of NWR NV.
the Board reviewed the outlook of the regional coal and coke markets taking into Completing the work on the redomiciliation account the coal reserves and life-of-mine of NWR NV to the UK, the Board oversaw projections.
The shale gas alternative was the squeeze-out process with respect also presented.
Alarge part of the strategy to the minority shareholdings in NWR meeting was dedicated to the new mine NV.
NWR become the sole shareholder of development project in Dbiesko.
NWR NV, and NWR NV Ashares were then As aresult of the discussion, the Board delisted from the Warsaw Stock Exchange.
requested an overall review of the projectsassumptions and feasibility.
Changes to the Thorough external Two day off-site During the course of 2012 the Boards The Board also spent considerable time composition was changed by two discussing the overall strategy of the Deferred Bonus Board evaluation meeting in Ostrava resignations.
Firstly Mr. Mende resigned Group and how the Group should grow.
effective as at 31 January 2012 and Plan and increased in accordance with the advice of the At the end of the year the Board focus on strategy Nomination Committee, the Board introduced anew long-term incentive decided not to appoint anew Director as feature into the existing Deferred Bonus the Board was considered sufficiently Plan.
As of 1 January 2013, this incentive robust and had a good balance of skills.
is available to the top management and Then the Executive Chairman Mr. Salamon will be fully paid in shares subject to retired from the Board effective as at certain criteria.
The Board also unified 30 September 2012.
To succeed the maximum amount of annual bonus Mr. Salamon, the Board appointed and the portion of bonus that is deferred Mr. Penny to first take the position of into shares, so that they are the same for Chairman-Elect from 3 September 2012 all participants.
A full description of the Changes in the Boards Implementation Squeeze-out and to become Executive Chairman changes to the Deferred Bonus Plan, which composition occurred leading the Board from 1 October 2012. came into effect as of 1 January 2013, of the Business and delisting of in 2012.
Mr. Penny was The succession planning for the Chairman can be found in the Remuneration Report NWR NV from the appointed Executive was actively driven by the Nomination on page 96.
Integrity Policy Committee which recommended retaining Chairman in October, Warsaw Stock with extensive the position of Executive Chairman The Board attended atraining session on and Mr. Fabin succeeded and prepared the job specification the Business Integrity Policy in January Exchange trainings Mr. Beck as CEO of OKD accordingly.
A set of similar training sessions for Mr. Pennys appointment with his terms selected employees was then rolled out and joined the Board as an of appointment approved by the across the Group.
Executive Director at the Remuneration Committee.
The Board connection with Mr. Fabin becoming The Board also approved the first ever the CEO of OKD, the Board appointed him NWR Sustainability Report for the year 2011. received a positive as a new Executive Director with effect external evaluation of its from 1 January 2013.
Mr. Beck, retiring Main activities undertaken in 2012 efficacy.
Last but not least, CEO of OKD, remaines on the Board by the individual Committees appointed as a Non-Executive Director until his by the Board are described in Committee the Board changed the resignation which will take effect on Reports on page 75.
Deferred Bonus Plan to 31 March 2013. achieve closer alignment The Board conducted an external of senior management with evaluation of its effectiveness which shareholders interests.
is described in more detail below in the section Board effectiveness and evaluation on page 81.
Overall the results were positive.
Upon one of Lucie Vvrov the recommendations of this external Company Secretary evaluation, the chairmanships of the
