Corporate Governance Chairmans introduction Effective corporate governance is essential to the success of our business.
As Chairman, my role is to manage the Board, ensuring it operates effectively and contains the right balance of skills and experience to successfully execute the strategy.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long term success of the Company and for setting and executing the strategy.
Over many years, NEXT has successfully grown its business and created significant shareholder value against the backdrop of a challenging external environment.
This is the ultimate measure of our success and reflects our strong corporate governance structure and the stable, effective management team we have in place.
We remain committed to the robust approach to governance which has served the business well.
Code compliance The Group complied throughout the year under review with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the UK FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
6 with regard to share capital are presented in the Share capital and major shareholders and Additional information sections of the Directors Report.
Board composition The Board includes four independent non-executive directors and the Chairman who bring considerable knowledge, judgement and experience to the Group.
Terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
Appointments to the Board, as with other positions within the Group, are made on merit according to the balance of skills and experience offered by prospective candidates.
Whilst acknowledging the benefits of diversity, individual appointments are made irrespective of personal characteristics such as race, religion or gender.
The Board is comprised of eight male directors and one female director.
At the next senior management level, there are thirteen male directors and eleven female directors.
The Companys Articles of Association require directors to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
However, the Board has determined that all directors will stand for re-election at the 2012 AGM in accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Board responsibilities The Board is responsible for major policy decisions whilst delegating more detailed matters to its committees and officers including the Chief Executive.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for monitoring implementation of its policies by the Chief Executive.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board holds regular meetings where it approves major decisions, including significant items of capital expenditure, investments, treasury and dividend policy.
Board papers including reports from the Chief Executive and Finance, Property and Product Directors are circulated in advance of each Board meeting.
The Board is responsible for approving semi-annual group budgets.
Performance against budget is reported to the Board monthly and any substantial variances are explained.
Forecasts of each half years anticipated results are revised and reviewed monthly.
Certain other important matters are subject to weekly or monthly reporting to the Board or Board Committee, including sales, treasury operations and capital expenditure.
There is a regular flow of written and verbal information between all directors irrespective of the timing of meetings.
All new directors receive a personalised induction programme, tailored to their experience, background and understanding of the Groups operations.
Individual training needs are reviewed regularly and training is provided where a need is identified or requested.
All directors receive frequent updates on a variety of issues relevant to the Groups business, including regulatory and governance issues.
Meetings of the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present are held at least annually, both with and without the Chairman.
The Board has appointed committees to carry out certain of its duties, three of which are detailed below.
Each of these is chaired by a different director and has written terms of reference which are available for inspection on the Companys website www.
The Company Secretary attends all Board meetings and is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance matters and facilitating the flow of information within the Board.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 28 January 2012 25 21127-04 05 04 2012 Proof 5 21127-04NEXTPLC.
indd 25 10 04 2012 10:17:27 Additional information Notes to the accounts Accounts Governance Business reports Governance Corporate Governance attendance at meetings The Board held nine formal meetings during the year and these were fully attended with the exception of one meeting which Mr Angelides was unable to attend.
The Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee held four, six and one meetings in the year respectively and all were fully attended.
audit Committee and external audit The Committee consists of the four independent non-executive directors including the senior non-executive director and at least one member Steve Barber, the Committee Chairman with recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee holds regular, structured meetings and consults with external auditors and senior management, including internal audit, where appropriate.
The Chairman of the Group, executive directors and other members of senior management attend meetings by invitation or as required.
The Committee considers financial reporting and reviews the Groups annual and interim financial statements, including underlying accounting policies.
In particular, any major accounting topics or matters of a subjective nature are discussed by the Committee.
During the year, the Committees review of the interim and full year financial statements focused on Directory receivables and related provisions, pension fund accounting and actuarial reports, the treatment of exceptional items such as the sale of Ventura, the valuation of treasury items and provisioning generally, together with a review of the going concern assumption and the adoption of appropriate accounting policies.
These items were also addressed at the planning stage of the external audit and there were no disagreements between management and external auditors conclusions.
In addition, the Committee received reports and presentations from senior management on various activities of the Group, including IT systems and controls, overseas operations, treasury and tax, the Bribery Act including the completion of web-based training, NEXTs involvement with the London 2012 Olympic Games and corporate responsibility matters.
The Groups internal control functions in areas such as finance, IT, security and product are reviewed regularly by the Committee.
The Committee also receives frequent briefings on health and safety, risk management, business continuity and corporate governance generally.
The Committee had discussions with the external auditors on audit planning, fees, accounting policies, internal control and audit findings.
Meetings were also held with the auditors without management present and the performance and independence of the auditors has been assessed.
The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending the appointment, re-appointment and removal of external auditors.
Consideration is given each year to putting the audit out to tender, however it was not considered necessary during the current year.
Ernst & Young have been the Groups auditors for over 20 years with regular partner rotation, and the Committee is satisfied that they continue to possess the skills and experience required to fulfil their duties effectively and efficiently.
As part of this review, the Committee Chairman and the Group Finance Director interviewed partners from Ernst & Young to select a replacement for the current audit partner who will stand down at the completion of this years audit.
As described below, policies and procedures are also in place to safeguard auditor independence.
The Groups external auditors, Ernst & Young, have reported to the Committee that, in their professional judgement, they are independent within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
The Audit Committee has reviewed this statement and concurs with its conclusion.
In order to ensure the continued independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors, the Board has established policies regarding the provision of non-audit services by the auditors.
The Audit Committees approval is required in advance for any nonaudit services to be provided where the fees exceed 100,000 for an individual assignment or 150,000 in aggregate for the year.
The Committee reviews details of audit and non-audit fees twice a year in conjunction with these policies.
Proposed assignments of non-audit services with anticipated fees in excess of 50,000 are generally subject to independent tender, and decisions on the allocation of work are made on the basis of competence, cost-effectiveness and relevant legislation.
A tender process is not always undertaken where the auditors existing knowledge of the Group enables them to provide the required services more cost-effectively than other parties, for example certain overseas taxation compliance services.
The Groups auditors are prohibited from providing any services that would conflict with their statutory responsibilities.
The Committee has reviewed its terms of reference and composition and believes that both are appropriate.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 28 January 2012 26 21127-04 05 04 2012 Proof 5 21127-04NEXTPLC.
indd 26 10 04 2012 10:17:27 Remuneration Committee The Committee consists of the Chairman and four independent non-executive directors.
The Committee, which is chaired by the senior non-executive director, determines the remuneration of the executive directors and reviews that of senior management.
A Remuneration Report is included in this Annual Report which summarises the activities of the Committee.
nomination Committee The Committee consists of the Chairman and four independent non-executive directors, including the senior non-executive director.
The Committee meets whenever necessary to consider, in particular, succession planning for directors and other senior executives to ensure the requisite skills and expertise are available to the Board to address future challenges and opportunities.
External consultants have been used to assist in identifying suitable Board candidates, based on a written specification for each appointment.
The Chairman is responsible for providing a shortlist of candidates for consideration by the Committee which then makes its recommendation for final approval by the Board.
Chairman There is a clear division of responsibilities between the offices of Chairman and Chief Executive, which is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman manages the Board to ensure: that the Group has appropriate objectives and an effective strategy, that there is a Chief Executive with a team of executive directors able to implement the strategy, that there are procedures in place to inform the Board of performance against objectives, and that the Group is operating in accordance with a high standard of corporate governance.
The current Chairman was an independent non-executive director of the Company prior to his appointment as Chairman on 17 May 2006.
His other significant commitments are noted on page 24, and the Board considers that these are not a constraint on his agreed time commitment to the Company.
Chief Executive The Board sets objectives and annual targets for the Chief Executive to achieve.
The Board is responsible for general policy on how these objectives are achieved and delegates the implementation of that policy to the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive is required to report at each Board meeting all material matters affecting the Group and its performance.
Management delegation The Chief Executive has delegated authority for the day to day management of the business to operational management drawn from executive directors and other senior management who have responsibility for the respective areas.
The most important management meetings are the weekly NEXT Brand trading and capital expenditure meetings which consider the performance and development of the NEXT Brand through its different distribution channels.
These meetings cover risk management of all business areas in respect of the NEXT Brand including product, sales, property, warehousing, systems and personnel.
Key performance indicators are monitored daily and weekly.
Directors conflicts of interest In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the Board has a formal system in place for directors to declare situational conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a situational conflict, the non-conflicted directors consider the situation in conjunction with their general duties under the Companies Act 2006.
They may impose limits or conditions when giving an authorisation, or subsequently if they think appropriate.
Any situational conflicts considered by the Board, and any authorisations given, are recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of conflicts which is reviewed annually by the Board.
Performance evaluation The performance of the Board, its non-executive directors and committees was formally evaluated during the year.
The evaluation was conducted by directors completing a detailed questionnaire, the results of which were compiled by the Company Secretary for review by the Chairman and the Board as a whole.
6.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code requiring the appraisal be externally facilitated at least every three years.
Whilst an externally facilitated appraisal was not held during the current year, the Board is committed to undertaking such a review in the next two years and has begun the search for a suitable third party to facilitate the process.
The senior independent non-executive director appraises the performance of the Chairman through discussions with all the directors individually and, together with the Chairman, appraises the performance of the Chief Executive.
The performance of the executive directors is monitored throughout the year by the Chief Executive and the Chairman.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 28 January 2012 27 21127-04 05 04 2012 Proof 5 21127-04NEXTPLC.
indd 27 10 04 2012 10:17:28 Additional information Notes to the accounts Accounts Governance Business reports Governance Corporate Governance Risk management The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management process and has delegated responsibility for its implementation to the Chief Executive and senior management best qualified in each area of the business.
The Board sets guidance on the general level of risk which is acceptable and has a considered approach to evaluating risk and reward.
The Board confirms that it has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control covering financial, operational, compliance and other controls and risk management.
This includes identifying and evaluating key risks, determining control strategies for these risks and considering how they may impact on the achievement of the business objectives.
The risk management process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Risk management and internal control is a continuous process and has been considered by the Board on a regular basis during the year.
The Board promotes the development of a strong control culture within the business.
During the year the Board addressed the business risks which had been identified as key, taking into account any changes in circumstances over the period.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the level of internal audit resource available within the Group and believes that it is adequate for the size, structure and business risks of the Group and is supplemented with appropriate external resources where needed for specific projects.
The Board considers that the Groups management structure and timely and continuous monitoring of key performance indicators provide the ability to identify promptly any material areas of concern.
Business continuity plans, procedures manuals and codes of conduct are maintained in respect of specific major risk areas and business processes.
Through these measures the management of business risk is an integral part of Group policy and the Board will continue to enhance risk management and internal control where practical.
The use of a Group accounting manual and prescribed reporting requirements for finance teams throughout the Group ensures that the Groups accounting policies are clearly established and that information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process.
The use of a standard reporting package by all entities in the Group ensures that information is presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements.
Personal use of company assets The Board carried out a review during the year and confirmed that there has been no improper personal use of company assets by directors.
Policies are in place to ensure proper approval procedures are applied to expense claims and that these are in accordance with service agreements.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the level of benefits in kind provided to executive directors.
Relations with shareholders The Boards primary role is to promote the success of the Company and the interests of shareholders.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Group.
The Board communicates with its shareholders in respect of the Groups business activities through its Annual Report, yearly and half yearly announcements, interim management statements and other regular trading statements.
Full year, interim and other public announcements are presented in a consistent format with a particular focus on making the presentations as meaningful, understandable and comparable as possible.
This information is also made publicly available via the Companys website.
All shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions or represent their views to the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
The Companys largest shareholders are invited to the annual and interim results presentations, at which executive and nonexecutive directors are present.
Non-executive directors may attend other meetings with shareholders on request.
Shareholder views are also communicated to the Board through the inclusion in Board reports of shareholder feedback and statements made by representative associations.
The Board takes care not to disseminate information of a share price sensitive nature which is not available to the market as a whole.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Directors Report and Business Review.
The Directors Report also describes the Groups financial position, cash flows and borrowing facilities, further information on which is detailed in the financial statements.
Information on the Groups financial management objectives, and how derivative instruments are used to hedge its capital, credit and liquidity risks is provided in Notes 30 to 34 of the financial statements.
The Directors report that, having reviewed current performance and forecasts, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue its operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 28 January 2012 28 21127-04 05 04 2012 Proof 5 21127-04NEXTPLC.
