Corporate governance UK Listed Companies are required by the Financial Services Authority the involvement is expected to last for one year.
He is being remunerated on a designated UK Listing Authority to include a statement in their annual consultancy basis for this work.
Details of the fees paid in the year are shown accounts on compliance with the principles of good corporate governance in Note 40 on page 82. and code of best practice set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the The Board considers that both the above appointments are in the best Code.
interests of the Company and of the shareholders and, whilst Jan cannot The provisions of the Code applicable to listed companies are divided into be considered to be independent in terms of the Code or by the National four parts, as set out below: Association of Pension Funds, the Board is satisfied that they do not affect his independence of judgment when carrying out his duties as a Director of the Company.
1 Directors The Board has established a Nominations Committee, which is chaired by Bob The business of the Company is managed by the Board of Directors, currently comprising two executive and four non-executive Directors, details of whom Vii iiiVi iV iiLi vV is to lead the process for Board appointments by selecting and proposing to are shown on pages 24 and 25. the Board suitable candidates of appropriate calibre.
The Committee would The offices of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate.
The normally expect to use the services of professional consultants to help in the division of their responsibilities has been set out in writing, approved by the search for candidates.
Board and is available on the Companys website.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are available on the The Board meets regularly to review trading results and has responsibility Companys website.
for the major areas of Group strategy, the annual Business Plan, financial reporting to and relationships with shareholders, dividend policy, internal The Committee met formally on one occasion during the year.
financial and other controls, financing and treasury policy, insurance policy, During the year, the Chairman led an evaluation process of the performance major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals, Board structure, of individual Directors, of the Board as a whole and of its committees.
The remuneration policy, corporate governance and compliance.
process consisted of a formal and detailed questionnaire completed by each Director, one-to-one meetings with the Chairman and a Board discussion.
The Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly briefed to enable them to discharge their duties.
In particular, detailed management accounts are Having conducted this evaluation, the Chairman remains of the view that each individual Directors performance continues to be effective and each prepared and copies sent to all Board members every month and, in advance of each Board meeting, appropriate documentation on all items to be demonstrates commitment to the role.
In addition the non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, have reviewed the discussed is circulated.
performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year is Directors.
Pursuant to those provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to conflicts Board Audit and risk Remuneration of interest and in accordance with the authority contained in the Companys No.
of Meetings 9 4 5 Articles of Association, the Board has put in place procedures to deal with the, Vii 9 5 notification, authorisation, recording and monitoring of Directors conflicts of AJ Allner 9 4 5 interest and these procedures have operated effectively throughout the year JG Astrand 9 4 5 and to the date of signing of this report and accounts.
THP Brown 8 4 5 Diversity RL Contreras 9 The Board has considered the recommendations of the Davies Review, 9 into Women on Boards in the light of the provisions of both section B.
2 of the Code, with which we are compliant, and of our existing policies and All Directors in office at that time were present at the Annual General procedures.
The Board recognises the benefits of diversity at all levels of the ii}i`-iiLi business and in order to reinforce the Boards commitment to equality, we The external auditor attended all Audit and Risk Committee meetings.
The have recently endorsed a new Equal Opportunities Policy which may be head of internal audit attended three meetings.
Whilst the overriding criteria for Board appointments will always be based on merit, so as to encourage an appropriate balance Before appointment, non-executive Directors are required to assure the Board of skills, experience and knowledge on the Board at all times, for all future that they can give the time commitment necessary to properly fulfill their appointments we will only use executive search firms who have committed duties, both in terms of availability to attend meetings and discuss matters on i6 `iv `V}i`i`i i ii the telephone and meeting preparation time.
the Board recognises that, particularly given the nature of its business, the In accordance with the provisions of the Code, resolutions to re-appoint all development of a pool of suitably qualified candidates may take time to iVVivvViLii` i ii ii} achieve and therefore do not believe it is appropriate to set targets, however aspirational, at the present time.
During the year, Jan Astrand, who was first appointed to the Board in February 2001, was appointed as non-executive Chairman of the Board of Currently, 27% of our total UK workforce and 8% of our senior our Spanish subsidiary, Northgate Espaa Renting Flexible S. A. in order to management in the UK are female.
reintroduce direct representation on that Board.
It is a role for which Jan is ideally suited, as he is permanently resident in Spain and fluent in Spanish.
The appointment is for an initial term of one year from December 2011.
He receives no additional remuneration for this appointment.
In addition, he was asked and agreed to undertake a project to implement a margin improvement programme in Spain focusing on certain key areas of the business where he would be able to draw on his extensive knowledge of the business in the UK.
This project commenced in November 2011 and Jans Northgate plc Corporate governance 34 Annual report and accounts 2012 2 Directors remuneration Control procedures The Board and the Groups management have adopted a schedule of matters The Companys policy on remuneration and details of the remuneration of which are required to be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it each Director are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 32. maintains full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, } `V Vii i i iV`iVi `ivi` 3 Accountability and audit procedures for capital expenditure appraisal and authorisation, physical An assessment of the Companys position and prospects is included in the controls, segregation of duties and routine and ad hoc checks.
Chairmans Statement and in the Operational Review and Financial Review on pages 2 to 21.
Monitoring The Board has delegated to executive management implementation of the system of internal control.
The Board, including the Audit and Risk Internal control Committee, receives reports on the system of control from the external Provision C. 2.1 of the Code requires the Directors to conduct an annual auditor and from management.
An independent internal audit function review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
The reports bi-annually to the Audit and Risk Committee primarily on the key Turnbull guidance provides relevant guidance for directors on compliance areas of risk within the business.
The Directors confirm that they have with the internal control provisions of the Code.
reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls covering financial, operational and compliance matters and risk management, for the Corporate governance period covered by these accounts in accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal controls which aims to safeguard Group assets, ensure proper accounting records are maintained and that the financial information used within the business and Audit An account of the work of the Audit and Risk Committee is given in the for publication is reliable.
Although no system of internal controls can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Groups system Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on page 33. is designed to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that, should any problems occur, these are identified on a timely basis and dealt with 4 Relations with shareholders appropriately.
The key features of the Groups system of internal controls, Throughout the year the Company maintains a regular dialogue with which was in place throughout the period covered by the accounts, are institutional investors and brokers analysts, providing them with such described below: information on the Companys progress and future plans as is permitted within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
In particular, twice a year, at the Control environment time of announcing the Companys half and full year results, they are invited The Group has a clearly defined organisational structure within which to briefings given by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
individual responsibilities of line and financial management for the maintenance of strong internal controls and the production of accurate The Companys major institutional shareholders have been advised by the and timely financial management information are identified and can be Chief Executive that, in line with the provisions of the Code, the Senior monitored.
Where appropriate, the business is required to comply with the Independent Director and other non-executives may attend these briefings procedures set out in written manuals.
and, in any event, would attend if requested to do so.
To demonstrate the Boards commitment to maintaining the highest business All shareholders are given the opportunity to raise matters for discussion and ethical standards and to promote a culture of honesty and integrity i ii ii}]vVi iiVi`i` amongst all staff, the Board has established a confidential telephone service, minimum 20 working days notice is given.
In compliance with the operated by an independent external organisation, which may be used by iV, i]i Li i }iiii all staff to report any issues of concern relating to dishonesty or malpractice V `-iiLii Vi within the Group.
All issues reported are investigated by senior management.
i vi`}i`iiVvi ii ii}Li published on the Companys website immediately following the meeting.
Identification of risks The Board and the Groups management have a clearly defined responsibility Compliance with the Code for identifying the major business risks facing the Group and for developing The Board considers that the Company complied with the provisions of the systems to mitigate and manage those risks.
The control of key risks is Code throughout the year with the exception of those relating to Board reviewed by the Board and the Groups management at their monthly and Committee composition.
The Code states that at least half the Board, meetings.
The Board is therefore able to confirm that there is an ongoing excluding the Chairman, should be comprised of independent non-executive process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by directors: as referred to above, since November 2011, only two out of the the Group, that it has been in place for the year under review and up to the five relevant Directors have been independent.
Similarly, the Code states date of approval of these accounts and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
that both the Audit and Remuneration Committees should comprise at least three independent non-executive directors, whereas there are currently two.
Information and communication The Board recognises that, whilst Jan Astrand has ceased to be independent The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial results to the for very good reasons, the composition of the Board does not now have Board.
Each operating unit prepares monthly accounts with a comparison the balance expected under the Code and the Nomination Committee is against their business plan and against the previous year, with regular review therefore conducting a search for an additional independent non-executive by management of variances from targeted performance levels.
A business director, which will restore the Company to full compliance with the Code.
plan is prepared by management and approved by the Board annually.
Each operating unit prepares a two year business plan with performance By order of the Board reported against key performance indicators on a monthly basis together with comparisons to plan and prior year.
These are reviewed regularly by D Henderson management.
Forecasts are updated regularly throughout the year.
Secretary 26 June 2012 Northgate plc Corporate governance 35 Annual report and accounts 2012
