com 35 Statement of corporate governance companies should apply the principles, but sets out provisions Introduction identied good governance practices by which the principles The Board fully endorses the FRCs view that the key aspects can be achieved.
The 2010 Code recognises that good of corporate governance in the UK, the purpose of which is to governance can also be achieved, in particular circumstances, improve corporate performance, are: by other means.
a single board collectively responsible for the sustainable The Board acknowledges its responsibility to explain carefully success of the company: and clearly to shareholders, where we do not follow a particular a system of checks and balances: provision, our reasons for doing so.
These reasons should not just identify the provision but also clarify how its actual transparency on appointments and remuneration: and practices are consistent with the principle to which the effective rights for shareholders.
particular provision relates, contribute to good governance and promote delivery of business objectives FRC, September The following sections explain how the Company applies the 2012. main principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, June 2010 issued by the Financial Reporting Council the The Company has complied with the principles and provisions 2010 Code, as required by the Listing Rules of the Financial of the 2010 Code save as described in the remainder of this Services Authority and meets the relevant information provisions statement.
of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The Board places on record its willingness to discuss with shareholders the manner in which it has applied, or otherwise, This statement of corporate governance covers the following the principles set out in the 2010 Code.
areas: This separate statement of corporate governance forms part of the structure and role of the Board and its committees: the Directors report and accordingly is approved by the Board the Boards effectiveness: and signed on behalf of the Board by a Director.
Certain parts of this statement of corporate governance have been reviewed relations with the Companys shareholders and the AGM: by the Companys auditors,  LLP, for the Groups risk management and internal control framework: compliance with the 2010 Code to the extent required.
the Groups principal risks and uncertainties: and The new edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code was the reports of the Nomination Committee and the Audit published in September 2012 and applies to reporting periods Committee.
beginning on or after 1 October 2012 the 2012 Code.
The 2012 Code does not apply to the Companys reporting period The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out separately in ending 2 December 2012.
However, the Board has, where the Directors remuneration report on page 50. appropriate and feasible, adopted some of the new provisions in the 2012 Code earlier than required and provides disclosure against these requirements in this annual report.
Compliance with the Code The 2010 Code sets out principles which companies must Further information on the 2010 Code and 2012 Code can be apply, and the Listing Rules oblige companies to report to found atwww.
shareholders on how they have done so.
The inherent exibility of the 2010 Code is that it does not prescribe the way in which Governance structure The structure and business of the Board is designed to ensure that the Board focuses on strategy, monitoring the performance of the Group, governance and risk and control issues.
Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Risk Treasury Management Key Committee Committee Committee Board-led committee Management-led committee STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 36 Statement of corporate governance continued approving the annual budget and the business plan for the The Boards role Group: The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and discussing various business development and strategic any directions given by special resolution, the business of the opportunities: Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all of annual strategy conference devoted to reviewing and agreeing the powers of the Company.
the Groups strategic direction: The Board has a number of key responsibilities and formally reviewing and approving the Groups results announcements reserved powers, as set out in the schedule of matters reserved and the annual report: for the Board.
The Board has responsibility for the overall receiving reports on and discussing the Groups marketing and management of the Group and for setting and reviewing the Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy, including commercial strategy: determination of the nature and extent of the significant risks receiving update reports at each Board meeting on health and that the Board is willing to take to implement its commercial safety, investor relations and legal and company secretarial strategy.
The Board has oversight of the Groups operations, matters: including management and planning, sound risk management and internal control systems, adequate accounting and discussing risk management and internal control: other records and compliance with statutory and regulatory approving the new Chairman Designate, the Chief Financial obligations.
Other reserved matters include approval of: the officer and other Director appointments, discussing annual report and half-yearly report: the Groups budgets: the management succession plans and Board composition: authority levels for capital expenditure: the treasury policy: and any governance policies.
The Boards role also includes approving new governance policies including the Board diversity oversight of the Groups capital structure including any share policy: and issues and share buy backs.
The Directors report on pages 68 visits to the CFCs and the non-food distribution centre to assist in to 71 includes a description of the powers of the Directors to understanding the operational issues the business faces.
issue and buy back the Companys shares.
The Board delegates the detailed implementation of matters During the period, the Boards activities included: approved by the Board and the day-to-day operational aspects of the business to the Executive Directors and the Management receiving reports from senior management on trading, business Committee, who meet formally twice weekly to review performance, nancing and operational projects: operational performance and to execute the strategic decisions receiving progress reports from senior management on made by the Board.
The Management Committee will also particularly significant projects such as the development of CFC2 monitor implementation of certain significant or cross-divisional and the expansion of the non-food business and its dedicated projects.
Management has authority to undertake capital fullment centre: expenditure without Board approval up to certain pre-approved expenditure thresholds and above which the expenditure must approving individual capital expenditure projects in CFC1: be referred to the Board for approval.
overseeing and approving the Groups renancing including the share placing: STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Stock code: OCDO www.
com 37 Board Committees Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities have been delegated to appropriate committees to ensure compliance with the regulatory requirements including the Companies Act, the Listing Rules and the 2010 Code.
The chairman of each committee provides a report or update of each meeting of the respective committee to the Board at the subsequent Board meeting.
A summary of the terms of reference of each Board committee is set out in the table below.
The full terms of reference are available on the Companys corporate website www.
com and reports by each committee are given on pages specified in the below table.
Minimum number of Committee meetings report on Membership required under Committee Role and terms of reference the terms of reference per year pages Nomination Undertakes an annual review of All Non-Executive Directors.
2 48 49 succession planning and ensures that Minimum of three members.
the membership and composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, A majority of the members remains appropriate.
should be independent Non-Executive Directors.
Makes recommendations for the membership of the Board, Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Audit Reviews and reports to the Board on At least three members.
3 45 47 the Groups financial reporting, internal All members should be control and risk management systems, independent Non-Executive the independence and effectiveness of Directors, except for a period the auditors and monitors the need for following the Companys listing.
Makes recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be put to shareholders of the Company in relation to the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors.
Remuneration Determines the remuneration, bonuses, At least three members.
2 50 51 long-term incentive arrangements, All members should be contract terms and other benets in independent Non-Executive respect of the Executive Directors, the Directors, except for a period Chairman and the Company Secretary.
Current Board composition The names and details of the current as at the date of this annual report Directors on the Board are set out in theBoard of Directorssection on pages 32 to 33.
As at the date of this annual report, the Board comprises 13 members, including the Chairman, five Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors.
Length of Tenure of Chairman Non-Executive Directors Diversity of the Board 15% 26% 37% Key Key Male 02 years Female 36 years 7 years 85% 37% STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 38 Statement of corporate governance continued Board changes There were a number of changes to the Board since the prior period, set out in chronological order in the following table: Director Position Date of Appointment Date of Resignation Mark Richardson Operations Director 23 01 2012 Andrew Bracey Chief Financial Officer 23 03 2012 Wendy Becker Non-Executive Director 30 03 2012 21 01 2013 David Young Non-Executive Director 23 05 2012 Alex Mahon Non-Executive Director 01 06 2012 Duncan Tatton-Brown Chief Financial Officer 01 09 2012 Sir Stuart Rose Chairman Designate 11 03 2013 The Company announced on 22 January 2013 the retirement of the Chairman, Lord Grade, from the Board, such retirement to take effect at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2013.
The Company also announced the appointment of Sir Stuart Rose as an independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate with effect from 11 March 2013.
Sir Stuart will become Chairman immediately following Lord Grades retirement.
Additionally, in January 2012, Jason Gissing, one of the co-founders of the business and current Executive Director, assumed the new Board position of Commercial Director, responsible for Ocados retail activities, including buying, supplier and customer relationships, marketing and brand development.
Neill Abrams, Legal and Business Affairs Director and the Company Secretary, assumed responsibility for HR, which was previously part of Jasons former role.
Key Board roles The primary responsibilities of the Chief Executive officer, the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the Non-Executive Directors are set out in writing and provide a system of checks and balances in which no individual has unfettered decision making power.
Chairman Lord Grade joined the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman in 2006.
Sir Stuart Rose will succeed Lord Grade as Chairman with effect from the Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2013.
Their biographical details are set out on pages 32 and 33 and indicate their significant time commitments outside of the Company.
Chief Executive officer The Companys Chief Executive officer is Tim Steiner.
His biographical details are set out on page 32.
Division of responsibilities between Chairman and Chief Executive officer There is a clearly established and long-standing division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive officer which is set out in writing and has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, and ensuring its effectiveness and for inuencing the direction of the Boards agenda.
The Chief Executive officer is responsible for the day-to-day management, operations and results of the Group, executing the strategy once agreed by the Board and making proposals to the Board for the strategic development of the Group.
Senior Independent Director David Grigson, who joined the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director in February 2010, is the Boards Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Directors role is to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders of the Company to assist in resolving any concerns of such shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors bring wide and varied commercial experience to the Boards and the committees deliberations.
All Directors are encouraged to challenge and bring independent judgement to bear on all matters, whether strategic or operational.
Each Non-Executive Directors letter of appointment to the Board sets out clearly the expected time commitment from them to the Company.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Non-Executive Directors has sufficient time available to devote to the Company.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce during normal business hours and at the Companys AGM.
Company Secretary The Board is assisted by the Company Secretary who is also the Legal and Business Affairs Director, Neill Abrams.
His biographical details are set out on page 33.
The Company Secretary reports to the Chairman in respect of his core secretarial duties to the Board.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
He has responsibility for ensuring that the Board procedures are followed and for governance matters.
The Company Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman, was responsible for ensuring good information ows within the Board and its committees.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Stock code: OCDO www.
com 39 The 2010 Code recommends that at least half of the board of Independence directors of a UK listed company, excluding the chairman, should The 2010 Code provides that the Company should identify in comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be the annual report each Non-Executive Director that it considers independent.
The Board currently complies with this provision, to be independent.
That is, determine whether the Director is although it will cease to do so after the AGM when Lord Grade retires independent in character and judgement and whether there as Chairman and Sir Stuart Rose assumes that role, as that will are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or reduce by one the number of independent Non-Executive Directors could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
The Board considers the Chairman, Sir Stuart Rose, David The composition of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Grigson, Ruth Anderson, Douglas McCallum, Robert Gorrie and Committee do comply with the independence provisions of the 2010 Alex Mahon to be independent.
By way of further explanation: Code, and will not be affected by the change in Chairman.
Since the end of the period the composition of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee were changed to bring each into Jrn Rausing, who has been on the Board over ten years, is line with the independence requirements of the 2010 Code.
considered to be independent in character and judgement.
However, the test for independence under the 2010 Code The following chart illustrates the current composition of the Board is more extensive, as it also requires the absence of any relationships that appear to affect a directors judgement.
and each of the Board committees in respect of the independence of its members under the 2010 Code: Although the Board considers Jrn to be independent in substance, it does not consider him to be free of relationships which may appear to affect his judgement as he is a beneciary 14 of the Apple II Trust, a major shareholder of the Company.
13 His continued membership of the Board is considered to be 12 11 beneficial to the Company in that his significant business 10 experience at Tetra Laval enhances the balance of skills and Key 9 experience on the Board.
Jrn Rausings inuence on the 8 Non-Executive Director 7 not deemed to be manner with which Tetra Laval has built up its commanding 6 independent market position in a world class technology-intensive industry 5 Independent Non- 4 also assists in setting the Companys strategic direction and Executive Director 3 reinforces its measured risk appetite.
In addition, Jrn provides 2 Independent Chairman valuable insight to the Board on the views of shareholders whose 1 Executive Director 0 objective is the sustainable long-term success of the Company.
Remuneration Board Audit Nomination Committee Committee Committee Robert Gorrie is considered to be independent notwithstanding the fact that he has been a Director for over 12 years and The Board and the Nomination Committee reviewed and discussed receives additional remuneration from the Group for consulting Board and Board committee size and composition a number of services that he provides to the Ocado Council the Companys times during the period.
As set out above, a significant number of employee representative body.
He received a total of 8,000 Board changes have taken place during the period.
The Company in the period for these services 2011: 9,000.
The Board expects that as existing members of the Board step down and does not consider these services to constitute a material new directors are appointed, those new directors will comply with business relationship with the Company, nor these sums to be the 2010 Code with regard to independence.
The Board believes material in the context of impacting Robert Gorries judgement.
that it is very important to provide some continuity of leadership Furthermore, his involvement with the Ocado Council promotes by retaining some long-standing Directors and therefore has taken good governance in that it provides the Non-Executive Directors a measured approach to transforming the Board to one that is with a direct earpiece to the views and concerns of the compliant with the independence requirements of the 2010 Code.
Groups hourly-paid employees, which enhances the system The Board has kept, and will continue to keep, the Board size and of checks and balances and provides a ow of information composition under regular review.
that is independent of senior management.
Robert Gorrie was employed by the Company as Logistics Director from 2000 to 2006, more than five years ago.
The Board views his resultant knowledge of the Groups complex IT and logistics infrastructure to be helpful to the Non-Executive Directors in their involvement with determining the Companys strategy.
Sir Stuart Rose will become Chairman at the Companys AGM on 10 May 2013.
At the same meeting shareholders will vote on his remuneration package, as described in detail in the Directors remuneration report on page 63.
This package includes an initial one-off award in the form of Ocado shares.
This share award will not vest until after three years of service as Chairman, and all of the shares must be held until at least one year after he ceases to be a member of the Board.
The Board does not consider the share award to be equivalent to participation in the Companys share option or performance-related pay scheme, since there are no performance conditions attached to the receipt of the shares only continued service.
There is also no possibility of any conict arising between the terms for receipt of these shares and determination of the achievement or otherwise of any performance related scheme for the Executive Directors and senior management.
STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 40 Statement of corporate governance continued Board and Committees attendance The attendance record of the Directors at scheduled Board and committee meetings during the period is set out in the following table.
The Board scheduled 14 meetings during the period and ad hoc meetings and conference calls were also convened to deal with specic matters which required attention between scheduled meetings.
The composition of the Board and committees changed during the period, as set out above and in each of the Board committees description set out below: hence Directors did not attend all of the relevant meetings during the period.
Board of Directors Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Executive Directors Tim Steiner 13 14 1 Duncan Tatton-Brown 4 4 Neill Abrams 14 14 Jason Gissing 14 14 2 Mark Richardson 12 12 Non-Executive Directors Lord Grade Chairman 13 14 3 3 David Grigson 13 14 5 5 3 3 Jrn Rausing 13 14 4 4 3 3 Ruth Anderson 14 14 5 5 4 4 3 3 Robert Gorrie 13 14 4 5 3433 Douglas McCallum 11 14 4433 3 Alex Mahon 6633 11 Former Directors 4 Andrew Bracey 66 5 David Young 67222211 6 Wendy Becker 68 2322 Notes: 1 Duncan Tatton-Brown joined the Board of the Company on 1 September 2012.
2 Mark Richardson joined the Board of the Company on 23 January 2012.
3 Alex Mahon joined the Board of the Company on 1 June 2012.
4 Andrew Bracey resigned from the Board of the Company effective on 23 March 2012.
5 David Young retired from the Board of the Company effective on 23 May 2012.
6 Wendy Becker joined the Board of the Company on 30 March 2012 and resigned from the Board effective on 21 January 2013. of the Board committee evaluations as overseen by the relevant Effectiveness committee chairman.
The Chairman separately reviewed the Board performance evaluation results of individual Director performance evaluations.
The effectiveness of the Board is important to the success of the Group and accordingly the Board considers that reviewing its Following this performance evaluation process, the Board has own performance is helpful.
recommended to the shareholders the election and re-election of those Directors standing at the forthcoming AGM, all of whom A performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and it considered continued to demonstrate commitment to their the individual Directors was carried out during the period, and role and whose performance continues to be effective.
was based upon self assessment questionnaires.
The online questionnaires were prepared by the Company Secretary with The Board recognises that a continuous and constructive support from an external consultant, Independent Audit Limited.
evaluation of its performance is an important factor in helping The main themes of the Board questionnaire were as follows: the Board realise its maximum potential.
During the period, the Board agreed to conduct a Board performance evaluation Strategy: process facilitated by an independent third party in 2013, as required by the 2010 Code.
Leadership and accountability: How the Board works: As part of the Boards review of its effectiveness, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met without the Executive Board culture: Directors being present, as required by the 2010 Code, to discuss the performance of the Board and the Executive Line of sight: and Directors.
The Senior Independent Director and the NonRisk governance.
Executive Directors also met without the Executive Directors or the Chairman being present and subsequently met with the The findings of the evaluations were reviewed by the Company Chairman to provide feedback.
Secretary and the Chairman and a summary report was provided to the Board.
The report included comparative data to show Director election changes in evaluations from the previous annual assessment.
In order to maintain high standards of corporate governance, The Board discussed the Board evaluation report noting areas the Articles require each Director to retire at every annual where assessed performance had developed from the previous general meeting each Director may offer himself or herself for review and areas for improving effectiveness in the future.
Each reappointment by the members at such meeting.
At the last of the committees carried out a similar process in respect of each annual general meeting on 23 May 2012 all the then-current STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Stock code: OCDO www.
com 41 Directors other than David Young stood for reappointment, remuneration consultants have advised the Remuneration and were duly elected.
Each current Director, except retiring Committee on executive remuneration and the Company retained Chairman, Lord Grade, will seek re-election by shareholders at the services of consultants for the recruitment of new Directors.
Conflicts of interests The rules that the Company has about the appointment and The Companies Act provides that directors must avoid a replacement of Directors are described in theDirectors report situation where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect on page 68. interest that conicts, or possibly may conict, with a companys interests.
Directors of public companies may authorise conicts The explanatory notes set out in the Notice of Meeting for and potential conicts, where appropriate, if a companys the AGM state the reasons that the Board believes each articles of association permit.
Director proposed for re-election at the AGM should be reappointed.
The Board has based, in part, its recommendations Each Non-Executive Directors letter of appointment sets out for re-election on its review of the results from the Board the requirement for disclosing conicts to the Chairman and evaluation process, on the reviews conducted at the meetings the Company Secretary.
As part of his or her induction process, of the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairmans review of a newly appointed Director completes a questionnaire which individual evaluations: it has concluded that each Directors requires him or her to disclose any conicts of interests to the performance continues to be effective and that each Director Company.
No Director has declared to the Company any actual has demonstrated substantial commitment to the role or potential conicts of interest between any of his duties to the including time for Board and committee meetings and other Company and his private interests and or other duties, except responsibilities.
in the case of an Executive Director who holds the position of Director of the Company and director of a number of Group One Director did not participate in the 2012 Board evaluation subsidiary companies or except a Director who is also a director process but is standing for re-election at the AGM.
Sir Stuart of, or connected to, a company which supplies goods or Rose joined the Board on 11 March 2013, after the period end.
Consequently the Board based its recommendation to re-elect Sir Stuart on the same principles and judgements it applied in Whenever a Director takes on additional external responsibilities, appointing him to the Board.
the Board considers any potential conicts that may arise.
The Board will continue to monitor and review potential conicts of Board induction and professional development interest on a regular basis.
The Chairman and the Company Secretary are responsible for preparing and coordinating an induction programme for newly Director insurance and indemnities appointed Directors, including a CFC1 visit, accompanying a The Company maintains directors and ofcers liability CSTM on a delivery route, doing a personal shopper shift and insurance cover for its Directors and ofcers as permitted under meeting members of senior management.
The Director also the Companys Articles and the Companies Act.
Such insurance receives an induction pack comprising the Groups key Board policies were renewed during the period and remain in force.
and governance documents and policies, and training on their The Company also indemnifies the Directors under an indemnity duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of the Company.
deed with each Director which contains provisions that are Depending on the Director role, a newly appointed Director may permitted by the director liability provisions of the Companies meet with the Companys shareholders, brokers or auditors.
Act and the Companys Articles.
An indemnity deed is usually entered into by a Director at the time of their appointment to the Every Director has access to appropriate training as required Board.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as dened following their appointment and is encouraged to develop their by section 234 of the Companies Act were in force during the understanding of the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors are offered period and remain in force for the benefit of the Directors and the opportunity to join a non-executive director network group which any officer of the Company or of any associated company.
provides access to know-how on current issues relevant to the role of company director.
Members of the Audit Committee receive written know-how and technical updates from the Companys auditors, Shareholder relations  LLP, to keep them abreast of the latest Investor relations accounting, auditing and tax developments.
The Company keeps shareholders informed of its strategy and progress.
The Company regularly meets with its large Information investors and institutional shareholders who, along with The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all of the Directors analysts, are also invited to presentations by the Company are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and after the announcement of the Companys results.
The Board that they have full and timely access to relevant information.
To regularly receives feedback from the Companys brokers and the enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive Executive Directors on the views of major shareholders and the appropriate information from time-to-time, including brieng investor relations programme and also receives reports at each papers distributed in advance of the Board meetings.
In the Board meeting on the main changes to the composition of the period, a Board meeting was held at CFC2 and at the separate Companys share register.
Jrn Rausing, who is a Director on non-food warehouse which gave the Non-Executive Directors the Board, is also a beneciary of the Apple II Trust, one of the the opportunity to see the development of the CFC2 and Companys largest shareholders.
Since the previous period, the Chairman and the Senior Directors can, where they judge it to be necessary to discharge Independent Director have met with the Companys their responsibilities as Directors, obtain independent professional shareholders with regards to governance issues and other advice at the Companys expense.
The Board committees Company matters.
Discussions were also held with them on a have access to sufficient resources to discharge their duties, number of specic issues, such as Director remuneration and as required by the 2010 Code.
During the period, independent Chairman succession plans.
STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 42 Statement of corporate governance continued All shareholders can access the annual report, trading monitoring the progress of major projects, including the CFC2 statements, investor presentations and regular announcements project by management and the Executive Directors and by the on the Companys corporate website www.
All Board: shareholders can choose to receive an annual report in paper or monitoring by the Audit Committee of the financial statements electronic form.
and consideration of reports on the work undertaken by the auditors,  LLP, in reviewing and auditing Share capital, voting rights and significant the Groups control environment and reviewing its financial shareholders reporting procedures: Details concerning the Companys share capital, significant a risk committee, which reports to the Audit Committee, that shareholders, special rights, voting rights and other matters seeks to implement risk control processes and embed risk required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2 are set analysis as part of normal business decision-making and an out in the Directors report on pages 68 to 71.
IT security committee that monitors the Groups IT security measures: The Companys AGM a treasury policy overseen by the treasury committee which Shareholders will have the opportunity to meet and question all of the Directors at the AGM, which will be held at 11am on regularly reports to the Audit Committee that manages financial risk including liquidity and controls the Groups cash and 10 May 2013 at One Bunhill Row, London, EC1Y 8YY.
deposits, investments, foreign exchange and interest rates: A detailed explanation of each item of business to be considered a food and product technology department, responsible at the AGM is included with the Notice of Meeting which will be for designing and monitoring compliance with the Groups sent to the shareholders before the AGM.
Shareholders who are processes governing procurement of goods for resale and unable to attend the AGM are encouraged to vote in advance of handling of products: the meeting, either online at www.
com or by using the proxy card which will be sent with the Notice of Meeting if other control measures outlined elsewhere in this annual report, sent by post or can be downloaded at www.
including legal and regulatory compliance and health and safety.
At last years AGM, all resolutions were passed with votes in The on-going processes and procedures described for support of a resolution ranging from 97.12% to 100%.
identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group were in place throughout the period and under review up to the date of approval of this annual report.
Such a system Accountability can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance Risk management and internal control against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in seeking to achieve business objectives.
its strategic objectives and for the Groups system of internal control and risk management.
The Audit Committee, on behalf Following the financial year end, the Audit Committee undertook an annual review of the effectiveness of the risk management of the Board, monitors the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems.
systems and internal controls, covering all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and Implementation and maintenance of the internal control and risk management systems.
The Audit Committees deliberations did not include a detailed consideration of the Turnbull risk management systems are the responsibility of the Executive Directors.
The risk committee, a management-led committee, Guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code October 2005.
The Audit Committee is regularly reports to the Audit Committee on such matters.
The actions of the risk committee in the past year have included satisfied, following such review that no significant weaknesses or failings were drawn to its attention.
reviewing the risk heat maps for each business area.
Risks are reviewed from time-to-time by each business area and measured against a dened set of likelihood and impact criteria.
This information is recorded in the Groups risk register.
The key features of the Groups system of internal control and risk management include: an organisational structure with clear segregation of duties, control and authority: a system of financial reporting and business planning and reforecasting processes: a capital approval policy that controls the Groups capital expenditure that can be undertaken without Executive Director or Board approval and a capital expenditure post-completion review process for selected projects: STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
