GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Evaluation CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW Towards the end of 2012, the Board undertook its first Dear Shareholder formal evaluation.
Socia Ltd was appointed to facilitate the evaluation, which focused on the structure of the Board together with the skills, experience and The Board regards the implementation of high development of its members.
Details of the process standards of corporate governance throughout the undertaken and a summary of the conclusions reached Group as one of its fundamental responsibilities.
It is imperative that the policies and practices adopted Board structure by the Board are fully integrated into the Companys On 19 February 2013 Ophir announced that Dennis business and strategy.
In this way, corporate governance McShane had accepted an offer to become part of can benefit all stakeholders rather than being seen as the Companys executive team.
He will full his role a regulatory necessity with no discernible link to the as Director of Corporate Strategy alongside Nicholas day-to-day business of the Group.
Cooper and Jonathan Taylor and will be a key member 2012 was the Companys first full year as a listed entity of the Executive Committee and senior management following its admission to the premium segment of the team.
Dennis contractual terms and conditions are in UK Listing Authoritys Official List and to trading on the line with the Companys policy as set out in the main market of the London Stock Exchange in July 2011.
Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 72.
As a premium listed entity, the Company is required to On 19 February 2013 Ophir also announced the comply with the principles and provisions of the UK appointment of William Bill Schrader as a nonCorporate Governance Code the Code or to explain executive director.
Bill brings with him a wealth to shareholders the reason for any non-compliance.
of energy industry experience with over 25 years The Code sets out main and supporting principles experience working at BP, including as Chief Executive and provisions in five areas: Leadership, Effectiveness, Officer of several of the companys country operations.
Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with Bill also led BPs joint ventures in the Caucasus and in Shareholders.
It is available on the website of the Russia for five years as President of the Azerbaijan Financial Reporting Council www.
International Operating Company and chief operating Compliance with the Code officer of TNK-BP.
Throughout his career Bill Schrader The Board is pleased to confirm that, for the year ended has been commended for his strong leadership qualities, 31 December 2012, the Company fully complied with the his strategic vision and his capability in managing provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In complex operating and government relationships.
The the following pages, made up of the Directors Report Board is confident that this experience and expertise will on pages 44 to 47, the Corporate Governance Report prove valuable for Ophir as it continues to build and on pages 48 to 53, and the Directors Remuneration expand its portfolio across the African region.
Report on pages 60 to 72 Ophir provides details of NICHOLAS SMITH the Companys governance policies, processes and Chairman structures and how putting these into practice has enabled the Company to comply with the Code.
LEADERSHIP To approve the interim and final results, the annual The Board report and accounts, including the corporate The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for governance statement and remuneration report, the continuing success of the Company.
To achieve this, the dividend policy and any declaration of dividend: the Board provides leadership to the business and, either To approve any material acquisition, disposal, contract directly or through the operation of its Committees and or expenditure: delegating authority, brings an independent judgement To approve, following recommendation from the on all matters of strategy, performance, resources, Nomination or Remuneration Committees as appropriate, standards of conduct and accountability.
As at appointments to the Board, that of the Company Secretary 31 December 2012, the Board and its Committees and other key senior management, committee membership were structured as set out in the chart on page 49. and remuneration for directors and senior executives: The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters To review, following recommendation from the Audit reserved for its approval and has delegated other Committee the effectiveness of the Companys internal specic responsibilities to its Committees.
The matters control and risk management systems: specically reserved for the Board are set out in writing and summarised below: To approve, following recommendation from the HSE Committee, the Groups health, safety, environmental To approve the Groups long term objectives, and other relevant policies: and commercial and scientific strategy and attitudes to risk: To approve the Companys corporate governance To approve the corporate operating and capital policies and procedures and set the Companys expenditure budgets: values and standards.
COM 48 GOVERNANCE BOARD Chairman, 2 executive directors and 4 independent non-executive directors AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 3 independent 2 independent OFFICER non-executive directors non-executive directors and Company Chairman HSE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 02 1 executive and 4 independent 2 non-executive directors non-executive directors and Company Chairman SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Role of the Chairman The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Chief Executive Officer are clearly established, separate Board.
In particular, he will: and have been set out in writing.
Their respective roles Ensure that the Board and its Committees operate and responsibilities were reviewed during the 2012 in a way that conforms to expected high standards evaluation, updated and re-approved.
Nicholas Smith was appointed as Chairman of the Set the style and tone of Board discussions, promote Company in 2009, having been a non-executive director constructive debate and ensure an accurate, timely since 2007.
As Chairman, he is responsible for the and clear ow of information to the Directors.
effective running of the Board and for ensuring that it Lead the Nomination Committee in the appointment plays a full and constructive part in the development of an effective and complementary Board, review and determination of the Companys strategy.
Together succession planning and evaluate the performance with the Chief Executive Officer and the Company of the Board, its Committees and individual directors.
Secretary, the Chairman sets the agenda for Board Foster effective Board relationships between the meetings, ensuring that the decision making process executive and non-executive members, support adopted by the Board allows for open and constructive and advise the Chief Executive Officer generally and debate.
The Chairman works closely with the Chief in the implementation of agreed strategy.
Executive Officer, providing support and advice as well Ensure effective communication with the Companys as ensuring that the strategies and actions agreed by stakeholders and that their views are understood the Board are effectively implemented.
Role of the Chief Executive Officer The Chairman was considered to be independent in The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for day-tocharacter and judgement on his appointment.
day management of the business within the authorities Nick Cooper was appointed as Chief Executive Officer in delegated by the Board.
In particular, he will: June 2011.
He is responsible for managing the day-toPropose, develop and supervise the Groups strategy day business of the Company, proposing and and overall commercial objectives and ensure that developing strategy and overall commercial objectives agreed strategies are implemented by the business.
in consultation with the Board and, as leader of a strong Build and develop an appropriate organisational and experienced executive team, implementing structure for the business, establish processes and the decisions of the Board and its Committees.
systems and plan resourcing to ensure that the A summary of the division of responsibilities between Company has the capability to achieve its aims.
the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer as at Lead the executive team including undertaking 31 December 2012 is set out in the box to the right.
appraisals, reviewing development needs and making recommendations to the Remuneration Committee with regard to remuneration.
Promote and conduct the affairs of the Group with the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance.
Progress the Companys communication programme with shareholders and ensuring that financial results, business strategies and targets are appropriately communicated to Companys investors.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 49 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Non-executive directors Senior independent director The independent non-executive directors bring a wealth Dennis McShane was the senior independent director of knowledge and business experience from other during the year under review.
In light of his appointment sectors and industries to the Board and its Committees.
to an executive role on the Board, Ronald Blakely Through their contributions, the independent nonassumed the role of senior independent director executive directors provide the Company with with effect from 18 February 2013. independent views on matters of strategy, performance, The senior independent director is charged with risk and conduct.
maintaining a communication channel between the Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three Chairman and the non-executive directors and for year term with the expectation that a further term will leading the non-executive directors in the annual follow, subject to review by the Board.
The terms and performance evaluation of the Chairman.
In addition, the conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors senior independent director is available to shareholders are available for inspection at the registered office who have concerns that have not, or cannot, be resolved during normal business hours.
While the expected time through the normal channels of the Chairman or the Chief commitment from non-executive directors is set out in Executive Officer or where such contact is inappropriate.
their letter of appointment as approximately 2-4 days per The specic terms of the role of the senior independent month, plus preparation time, each is required to confirm director have been set out in writing and approved by that they are able to devote such time as is necessary for the Board.
the satisfactory performance of their duties.
Company Secretary The length of tenure and independence of the nonLisa Mitchell, Chief Financial Officer, was appointed executive directors as at year end is shown below: as Company Secretary in August 2012.
Prior to Tenure from Considered Ms Mitchells appointment, the role of Company Date of appointment to to be Secretary was undertaken by Prism Cosec Ltd. Prism Appointment 2013 AGM independent Cosec continues to provide corporate governance advice and services to the Company and to act as Ronald July 2011 2 years minute secretary to the Board and its Committees.
Blakely EFFECTIVENESS John Lander November 4 years Board composition 2008 At 31 December 2012 the Board was comprised of the Dennis October 5 years Chairman, two executive directors and four independent 1,2 McShane 2007 non-executive directors.
Subsequently, on 18 February 2013, Bill Schrader was appointed as a non-executive Lyndon October 5 years director and Dennis McShane as an executive director.
Powell 2007 As at the date of this report therefore, the Board 1 Dennis McShane ceased to be a non-executive director following comprises the Chairman, three executive directors his appointment as executive director of Corporate Strategy on and four independent non-executive directors.
2 William Bill Schrader was appointed as an independent The Board believes that this balance of executive and non-executive director on 18 February 2013. non-executive directors provides for high quality The Board considers that all its non-executive directors discussion and consideration of the key issues at year end, namely Ronald Blakely, John Lander, Dennis concerning the Company.
McShane and Lyndon Powell, were independent in The composition of the Board is regularly reviewed character and judgement and free from relationships or to ensure that the Directors have the required skills, circumstances that might affect their judgement.
During knowledge and experience to meet the needs of the the year under review, the majority of the non-executive business.
Biographical details for each of the current directors, excluding the Chairman, were independent directors are set out on page 43. non-executive directors and met the criteria for independence set out in the Code.
The following changes to the Board took place during the year ended 31 December 2012 and up to the date Throughout 2012 and up to the date of publication of of this report: this annual report, a majority of the Board members, excluding the Chairman, were independent nonexecutive directors.
COM 50 GOVERNANCE Board Meetings 19 June 2012 Scheduled held at short As announced in December 2011, Alan Stein, executive Board Meetings notice deputy Chairman and founder of the Company, retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 2012 Annual Current directors General Meeting the AGM.
Nicholas Smith, Chairman 5 5 5 5 Rajan Tandon, non-executive director and Nick Cooper, 5 5 5 5 representative for Mittal Investments S. a. r. l. Mittal Chief Executive Officer under the terms of the Relationship Agreement between Mittal and the Company, also retired from Jonathan Taylor, 5 5 5 5 02 the Board at the conclusion of the 2012 AGM.
As a executive director consequence of this retirement, the appointment Ronald Blakely, 5 5 5 5 of Jaroslaw Paczek as Rajan Tandons alternate non-executive director also terminated.
John Lander, 5 5 5 5 6 August 2012 non-executive director Patrick Spink, independent non-executive director, resigned from the Board to pursue other interests.
Dennis McShane, 5 5 4 5 non-executive director 18 February 2013 Dennis McShane, independent non-executive director Lyndon Powell, 5 5 4 5 and senior independent director was appointed as an non-executive director executive director.
Former directors William Bill Schrader was appointed as an Alan Stein, 1 3 0 1 independent non-executive director.
Executive Deputy Diversity 1 Chairman The Board is committed to equal opportunities in its Patrick Spink, 3 3 2 2 recruitment and succession planning policies and 2 non-executive director continues to welcome the current emphasis on diversity in general.
Rajan Tandon, 1 3 1 1 3 non-executive director While, as yet, none of the Board Directors are women, women made up 20% of the Executive Committee, 22% 1 Alan Stein retired from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys of the Senior Management Team and 42% of the total AGM on 19 June 2012. workforce as at 31 December 2012.
Ophir remains 2 Patrick Spink resigned from the Board on 6 August 2012.
3 Rajan Tandon resigned from the Board at the conclusion of the dedicated to encouraging diversity at all levels of the Companys AGM on 19 June 2012. business, acknowledging that a more diverse workforce, with the right mix of skills, experience and knowledge, can make a valuable contribution to the Company.
Meeting attendance The Board held five formal meetings during 2012, including a meeting to consider the strategic direction of the business.
In addition, five further meetings were called at short notice in order to consider specic items of business.
Details of the attendance of all Directors who served during the year ended 31 December 2012 and up to the date of this report at the formal and short-notice Board meetings are shown in the table below: ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 51 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board process During 2012, the Directors received specic training on: Directors are provided with full and timely information Macro, equity markets and gas market trends: before meetings, including detailed financial information Asia-Pacic liqueed natural gas: where applicable.
The Chief Executive Officer sets the agenda for Board meetings in consultation with the Competitor activity in East and West Africa: Company Secretary and the Chairman and formal UK Bribery Act update: minutes are prepared to record all decisions made.
HSE, including crisis management: and To facilitate the efficient dissemination of information Updates on specic areas of risk.
to directors, the Board is in the process of implementing In November 2012 the Directors participated in a site electronic board meeting software.
visit to Tanzania including a visit to the port facility Minutes of Board and committee meetings are formally located at Mtwara, Tanzania.
approved at the next full meeting.
In the meantime, Independent advice draft minutes are circulated to each director or All directors have access to the advice and services of committee member as appropriate as soon as the Company Secretary and the Board has established a practicable after the conclusion of the meeting.
Minutes procedure whereby any director may take independent of committee meetings may be made available to other professional advice at the Companys expense on any Board members on request and as appropriate.
matter in the furtherance of their duties.
If a director objects to a particular proposal, this will Re-election be recorded in the minutes of the relevant meeting.
In accordance with the provision of the Code, all During the year ended 31 December 2012 there were continuing directors of the Company offer themselves no such objections.
for annual re-election at the AGM.
Insurance and indemnification External directorships The Company provides its directors and officers with The Company had adopted a policy which allows the the benefit of appropriate insurance, which is reviewed executive directors to accept directorship of other annually.
In addition, directors and officers have quoted companies provided that they have obtained the received an indemnity from the Company against prior permission of the Chairman.
As set out in the Code, a any liability incurred by or attaching to the director no executive director would be permitted to take on or officer in connection with any negligence, default, more than one non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 breach of duty or breach of trust by them in relation to company or the chairmanship of such a company.
the Company or any associated company: and b any During the year ended 31 December 2012, none of the other liability incurred by or attaching to the director Companys executive directors held directorships in any or officer in the actual or purported execution and or other quoted company.
discharge of his duties and or the exercise or purported exercise of his powers and or otherwise in relation to Board evaluation or in connection with his duties, powers or office other Socia Ltd was appointed to undertake the first than certain excluded liabilities including to the extent evaluation of the Board, its members and processes.
that such an indemnity is not permitted by law.
The evaluation focused on three key areas: ensuring the tness of the Board to meet the demands of the future Appointment, induction and training of this fast-developing business: ensuring the Board has The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that an the right blend of skills and experience: and continuing appropriate induction is given to new Board members.
to develop the dynamics of the Board so that it remains The induction programme is specically tailored to the an effective decision making body.
needs of the incoming director and will include training on the business and strategy of the Company, copies The external facilitator conducted interviews with each of Board policies and procedures, meetings with senior Board member, the Chief Financial Officer, General management and site visits, where appropriate.
Counsel and Company Secretary, asking each to assess Ongoing development and training is provided to the Boards performance in five areas.
The resulting directors at Board and committee meetings.
report, including recommendations for action, was considered by the Board and a response plan agreed.
COM 52 GOVERNANCE The main focus of the response plan is to strengthen RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS and develop the skills and knowledge of the Directors Dialogue with shareholders and senior management team.
Formal monthly The Chief Executive Officer is primarily responsible for meetings have been instigated between the Chairman, investor relations within the Group, supported by the Chief Executive Officer and the senior independent investor relations function.
Presentations were made to director.
The appointment of a new non-executive analysts on publication of the Companys full year 2011 director in February 2013 enhanced the Boards African results in April and half-year results in August 2012.
The Chairman and Company Company also held its second capital markets day in Secretary will monitor progress over the year and the London in October to enhance investor knowledge of findings will play a key role in the structure and focus of the Company and its strategy.
All financial and regulatory announcements, as well The senior independent director led a review of the as other important business announcements, are Chairmans performance by the non-executive directors.
published to the investor relations section of the The result of the Chairmans review, where he was Companys website and stakeholders can subscribe perceived to be performing well in all categories, to receive new updates by email by registering online was consistent with the findings of the evaluation on the website.
Annual General Meeting Socia Ltd does not provide any other services to Our first Annual General Meeting AGM as a premium the Company.
listed entity was held in London in June 2012 and was attended by all continuing members of the Board.
The Conicts of interest AGM included a presentation about the business by the Every director has a duty to avoid a conict between Chief Executive Officer and an opportunity for their personal interests and those of the Company.
The shareholders to ask questions, both on the formal provisions of Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 business of the meeting and generally.
and the Companys articles of association permit the Board to authorise situations identied by a director in Voting on all resolutions at the AGM was by means of a which he or she has, or may have, a direct or indirect poll.
The results of the poll, including votes withheld on interest that conicts, or may conict, with the interests each resolution, are available on the investor relations of the Company.
section of the Companys website.
Prior to year end, the Board reviewed the outside The 2013 AGM will be held on 6 June 2013 at the offices positions and interests or arrangements with third parties of Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ.
held by each director and, following consideration, the Full details of the business of the AGM will be set out in positions and interests disclosed were authorised.
the Notice of Meeting and sent to shareholders, together with any related documentation, at least 20 clear The Board will continue to undertake an annual review business days before the date of the meeting in of directors situational conicts.
Notwithstanding the accordance with the requirement of the Code.
above, each director is aware of his duty to notify the Board should there be any material change to their COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD positions or interests during the year.
In order to facilitate the business of the Company, the Board has delegated certain responsibilities to its Directors do not participate in Board discussion or standing committees in line with the provisions of decisions which relate to any matter in which they the Code.
The reports of the Audit, Health, Safety have or may have a conict of interest.
and Environment, Nomination, and Remuneration Committees, are set out on the following pages.
