GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE be performed by third party contractors with the REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE specialist skills for joint venture as well as internal Dear Shareholder auditing.
The first of these audits will be performed in 2013 and the Committee will receive reports on the internal audits at each of its meetings going forward.
During this first full year as a listed entity, the Audit The Committee also gave oversight to the implementation Committee developed an agenda to include regular of training, education and communication related to the reviews of controls in the various financial and business UK Bribery Act such that all employees understand their processes.
To highlight examples, a third party was responsibilities.
Particular emphasis was given to the contracted to review the procurement process and implementation with third party service providers.
as a result of that work, several changes were implemented to improve processes and controls.
During the year, the Committee rened the risk An independent review was also completed to management process with management to ensure review the accounts payable process, where control a systematic evaluation of the major risks to the weaknesses were identied and steps taken to Company such that particular risks can be reviewed strengthen the controls.
and discussed by the Board at future meetings.
In general, as Ophir moved from a private to a listed The past year saw good progress in improvements entity, the control framework was good.
However, to the control framework.
given a relatively small staff and paper intensive work RONALD BLAKELY processes, a number of controls have been identied Audit Committee Chairman to improve areas such as segregation of duties and documentation.
These reviews will form an ongoing part of the Committee agenda in the coming year.
Also during the year, the decision was taken to establish an internal audit function which will initially MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The members of the Committee during the year During 2012, the Committee reviewed its objectives ended 31 December 2012, together with details of their and terms of reference to ensure that they remained individual attendance at Committee meetings held appropriate.
The Committees full terms of reference during the year, are set out below: are available on the Companys website but, in summary, the Committees main role and responsibilities are: Meeting Committee Members attendance monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, including its annual and half-yearly Ronald Blakely Committee Chairman 3 3 reports, interim management statements and any John Lander 3 3 other formal announcement relating to its financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting Dennis McShane 3 3 issues and judgements which they contain: The Board considers all members of the Committee keeping under review the effectiveness of the to be independent and that Ronald Blakely has recent Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems together with and relevant financial experience and competence in accounting as required by section C. 3.1 of the Code reviewing and approving statements to be included in and section 7.1.
1 of the Disclosure and Transparency any public document concerning internal controls and risk management: Rules respectively.
reviewing the adequacy and security of the Companys The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and procedures and arrangements for detecting fraud, representatives of the external auditor attend bribery and money laundering and ensuring that Committee meetings on a regular basis.
In addition, employees and contractors are able to raise concerns, the Group Financial Controller and the General Counsel in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial may be invited to attend all or part of Committee reporting or other matters: meetings as required.
The external auditors are also given the opportunity to meet with the Committee monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the without executive management being present.
Companys internal audit processes in the context of the Companys overall risk management system: Following Dennis McShanes appointment as executive director in February 2013, Mr McShane will step down from his position on the Audit Committee and a replacement will be appointed in due course.
COM 54 GOVERNANCE considering and making recommendations to the EXTERNAL AUDITOR Board, to be put to shareholders for approval at the Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young has acted as auditor Annual General Meeting, in relation to the appointment, since 2004.
During the year, the Committee considered re-appointment and removal of the Companys external and agreed that the Companys external audit services auditor, their terms of appointment and remuneration should be put out to tender at least once every 10 years, and assessing annually their independence and as set out in the revised Code.
The Chief Financial objectivity: and Officer, on behalf of the Committee, has therefore been delegated with the task of undertaking a review of audit developing and implementing a policy on the supply services, including a tender by suppliers, ahead of the of non-audit services by the external auditor.
02 FINANCIAL REPORTING The Companys audit partner will mandatorily rotate During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved from the account following the conclusion of the for consideration by the Board the financial results 2012 audit in accordance with the requirements of the for the year ended 31 December 2011 together with ethical standards of the Accounting Practices Board.
the results for the half-year to 30 June 2012.
On both The Committee Chairman discussed the Companys occasions, the Committee considered the appropriateness requirements with Ernst & Young and met the proposed of preparing the accounts on a going concern basis, a audit partner prior to his appointment.
The new audit particular area of scrutiny and review given that the partner attended his first Committee meeting in Company continues to be an exploration rather than November 2012. producing entity.
The going concern reviews included consideration of forecast plans and supporting The Committee has reviewed and confirmed the assumptions as well as the options available to the Companys policy governing the provision of audit Company for obtaining additional funding, such as and non-audit services provided by the auditor and its portfolio management and equity.
The policy clearly identies permitted and prohibited services and sets out the procedure to be At both full and half-year, the Committee agreed that followed for the approval of all audit and non-audit the Companys financial position was such that it services.
All engagements with an expected fee in continued to be appropriate for accounts to be prepared excess of US$100,000 require the prior approval of the on a going concern basis.
The Committee reviews statements on the Other matters considered by the Committee during independence and objectivity of the external auditor at least the year, and which are not covered elsewhere in this twice a year in order to satisfy itself that independence and report, include: objectivity has been safeguarded.
purchase price allocation and financial system During the year ended 31 December 2012 the Committee integration following the acquisition of Dominion approved fees for audit services of US$302,000 together Petroleum Ltd: with fees for non-audit work of US$709,000.
The nature of the services provided is set out in note 5 to the control processes for contracts and procurement: consolidated financial statements.
There is no limitation full and half-year external audit plans: of liability in the terms of appointment of Ernst & Young processes and controls for analysing exploration as auditor to the Company.
results and contingent reserves: RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS review of fraud detection procedures: and The Board has delegated its responsibility for review of insurance cover.
monitoring the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a continual basis to the Committee.
The Groups system of internal control is designed to safeguard the Companys assets and to ensure the reliability of financial information for internal and external use.
Any system of controls can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions authorised and correctly recorded and that any material errors and irregularities are detected within a reasonable timeframe.
The Groups internal controls are therefore designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk, recognising that not all risks can be eliminated and the cost of control procedures should not exceed the expected benets.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 55 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED The Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of The Company is committed to the highest standards the Groups system of internal controls which covers of business conduct and has adopted a whistleblowing financial, operational and risk management processes.
policy as a mechanism to support the achievement of Lines of responsibility have been clearly dened this goal.
Employees are encouraged to raise genuine and a delegated authority schedule approved concerns which are carefully and thoroughly and implemented.
investigated to assess what action, if any, should be taken.
Employees, officers and business partners are During the year, the Company undertook a bottom-up able to raise any concerns in a condential manner review of risk.
The Group operates a risk management with either the compliance officer who is the General process under which key risks are identied, their Counsel, Lyndon Powell independent non-executive likelihood and impact considered and actions taken to director, or the Chief Executive Officer.
The Committee reviews the Groups risk register every six months.
The principal risks During the year ended 31 December 2012, no issues identied by the Group are set out on pages 38 to 39. were raised via the whistleblowing policy.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal AUDIT COMMITTEE EVALUATION control systems in operation during the financial year Before the year end, the Committee undertook and, where necessary and appropriate, action has been a questionnaire-based evaluation of itself and its taken to remedy any identied failings or weaknesses.
The evaluation focused on whether The processes as set out above have been in place members of the Committee were satisfied that it was for the year under review and up to the date of this fullling all its duties and whether more or less time annual report.
should be spent considering certain topics.
Committee members were also asked whether they were satisfied INTERNAL AUDIT with the advice obtained from the Company on During the year the Committee reviewed the audit issues.
requirement for the Company to establish an internal audit function.
It was agreed that the Companys As a result of the evaluation, minor amendments development over the year warranted the establishment were proposed to the Committees terms of reference, of an internal audit function, albeit on an outsourced which were subsequently approved by the Board.
The tender for internal audit services is No additional topics were identied for the Committees expected to complete in early 2013. consideration and all members were comfortable with the level of advice and openness from ANTI-BRIBERY AND WHISTLEBLOWING executive management.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the Companys processes and procedures in relation to The UK Bribery Finally, it was agreed that consideration should be Act 2010 the Act and obtained conrmation that these given to undertaking an externally facilitated Committee were being properly implemented.
The main emphasis during the year has been to ensure that third party contractors were following the Companys anti-bribery policy and to the implementation of contracting and procurement procedures.
In addition, a gifts and hospitality register had been developed and a system for dealing with per diems for government officials was being considered prior to developing a formal policy.
