GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE HSE COMMITTEE CONTINUED REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Further information on the Companys approach to REPORT OF THE corporate responsibility and HSE matters can be found in NOMINATION COMMITTEE the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 34 to 37.
Dear Shareholder HSE COMMITTEE EVALUATION Before the year end, the Committee undertook a In February 2013 I succeeded Dennis McShane as questionnaire-based evaluation of itself and its Chairman of the Nomination Committee, having responsibilities.
Stakeholders including institutional and served as a member of the Committee since it was retail shareholders, voting agencies, environmental established in 2008.
I would like to congratulate groups and local communities are placing increasing Dennis on his appointment as executive director of importance on whether companies are being managed Corporate Strategy and thank him for his excellent in a socially responsible manner and companies are chairmanship during the last three years.
expected to demonstrate that sustainability is integrated into the business model.
Following the successful IPO in 2011, the Committee focused on the key issues of reinforcing The evaluation focused on ascertaining whether the the senior executive team, succession planning members believed that the Committee was adequately and Board composition.
fullling all of its duties.
This included consideration of whether the Committee composition was appropriate, With regard to the latter, Rajan Tandon, Mittal whether satisfactory advice was being received from the Investments representative on the Board, stepped Company and the level of engagement with and advice down as a director in June 2012.
Paddy Spink did and guidance from external advisers.
As a result of the the same in August 2012.
Their wise counsel has responses received, the Committee will invite operational been missed.
members of the senior management team and third During the latter part of the year Egon Zehnder party providers to attend and report to future meetings.
was appointed to assist with the selection of further non-executives to the Board.
The criteria of expertise were strong technical, engineering and or gas commercialisation expertise.
I am pleased that Bill Schrader has now joined the Board and we are sure that his wealth of energy industry experience will be of utmost value to the Company.
Succession planning will remain a key focus for 2013.
This has been helped by the development and adoption of a robust response plan to the points identied in the 2012 Board evaluation.
NICHOLAS SMITH Nomination Committee Chairman MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE The membership of the Nomination Committee, together with details of their individual attendance at meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2012, are set out below: Meeting Committee Members attendance Dennis McShane Committee Chairman 3 3 John Lander retired from the Committee 3 3 14 November 2012 Nicholas Smith 3 3 Ronald Blakely with effect from 0 0 14 November 2012 WWW.
COM 58 GOVERNANCE In order to adopt a more even allocation of Committee NOMINATION COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES membership among the independent non-executive The key focus of the Committee during 2012 has directors, the Board approved the appointment of been succession planning and Board composition.
In Ronald Blakely as a member of the Committee in place particular, the Committee reviewed the constituents of John Lander on 14 November 2012.
No Committee of the Companys senior management team, whether meetings were held following this change and prior further appointments were required to strengthen the to the year end.
team and how best to provide appropriate training to current members.
The Board considers all members of the Committee who served during the year to be independent, Following the retirement of Rajan Tandon at the 02 including the Chairman of the Board, who was conclusion of the AGM and the resignation of Patrick independent on appointment.
Spink in August 2012, the Committee considered Board composition and the importance of refreshing Board Further to his appointment as executive director in and committee membership.
Egon Zehnder, a February 2013, Dennis McShane stepped down from professional search agency specialising in the his position as Chairman of the Committee, and was recruitment of high calibre non-executive directors, was replaced by Nicholas Smith.
At the same time Lyndon engaged to identify candidates with strong technical Powell was appointed to the Committee.
or engineering or gas commercialisation expertise.
As ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF a result of this process, Bill Schrader was appointed THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE to the Board in February 2013.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are During its deliberations, the Committee also reviewed available on the Companys website.
In summary, the membership of all Board committees and made a the Committees main responsibilities include to: recommendation for minor changes to the Board for regularly review the structure, size and composition approval.
Egon Zehnder does not provide any other including the skills, knowledge, experience and services to the Company.
diversity of the Board and make recommendations NOMINATION COMMITTEE EVALUATION to the Board with regard to any changes: Before the year end, the Committee undertook a give full consideration to succession planning for questionnaire-based evaluation of itself which focused directors and other senior executives: on whether its terms of reference remained t for ensure that on appointment to the Board, nonpurpose.
The outcome of the evaluation was that the executive directors receive a formal letter of Committee did not believe that any changes to its terms appointment setting out clearly what is expected of of reference were necessary at the present time.
them in terms of time commitment, Committee service However, as with the Audit Committee, the Nomination and involvement outside Board meetings and review Committee agreed that consideration should be given annually the time commitment required from the to undertaking an externally facilitated evaluation of all Companys non-executive directors: Board committees during 2013. review the results of the Board performance evaluation process that relate to the composition of the Board: review the membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and any other Board committees as appropriate, in consultation with the chairmen of those committees: and consider the re-appointment of any non-executive director at the conclusion of their specified term of office, giving due regard to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board in the light of the knowledge, skills and experience required.
