CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance 35 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 The Board is committed to ensuring that The Chairman is responsible for The details of the way the Board high standards of corporate governance leadership of the board and ensuring operates, including a schedule of matters are maintained by the Group.
its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
reserved to the Board for decision, are set The division of responsibilities between out in the Board Reference File.
The Board endorses the main and the role of Chairman and the Chief supporting principles and the provisions Executive has been set out in writing The Board retains control over strategy, set out in the UK Corporate Governance and agreed by the Board.
investments and capital expenditure, and Code the Governance Code except as limits the decisions which can be taken detailed below.
The Board has delegated Group by management in the areas of strategic responsibility for the management and financial management and reporting, The Boards policies and procedures are of health, safety and the environment capital structure, corporate actions, documented in the Board Reference File that to Charles Holroyd.
mergers and acquisitions, major contracts sets out the roles and delegated authorities and other commitments, litigation and applying to the Directors, the Board and Management Team regulatory proceedings, remuneration the Board Committees.
The Board Reference General Committee and share incentive plans.
File is reviewed annually by the Board as part The Board delegates management of the of the annual governance review business to the Chief Executive.
To assist Where the Board delegates authority to undertaken by the Chairman.
in this, the Chief Executive has created a management it is on a structured basis, General Committee that consists of the which requires that proper management COMPLIANCE Executive Directors, the Group Operations oversight exists at the appropriate level.
The Board considers that, throughout Director, the Group Technical Director and the period under review, the Group the Group Human Resources Director.
The Board meets on a regular basis, has complied with the provisions at least ten times a year, and otherwise recommended in Section 1 of the The General Committee meets at least as required.
Of the ten regular meetings, Governance Code, other than in respect twice a month either physically or by typically eight are held at Group locations, of Provision D. 2.1 with the appointment video or telephone conference and and the remaining two are held by of Nigel Keen as Chairman of the focuses on Group wide performance telephone conference.
Remuneration Committee as and risk management and twice a year described below.
Board meetings involve reviews of financial and business performance against the plan PRESERVATION OF VALUE Executive Committee approved by the Board.
Risk management review, both at Group level and also for The basis on which the Group generates The General Committee is supported by each of the business units, is embedded in and preserves value over the longer term an Executive Committee that consists of the reporting system.
On a rotating basis, and the strategy for delivering the the members of the General Committee the Board receives presentations from the objectives of the Group are to be found with the addition of the Managing business units and key functional areas in the Chairmans Statement on page 02, Directors of each of the principal enabling it to explore specic issues in the Chief Executives Statement and businesses which comprise the Group.
Any matter requiring a Operational Review on pages 10 to 15.
OPERATION OF THE BOARD decision by the Board will be supported The Board is responsible to shareholders by a pre-circulated paper analysing all BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND for delivering sustainable incremental relevant aspects of the proposal and MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE shareholder value through entrepreneurial recommending a course of action.
Board of Directors leadership within a framework of controls The Board comprises the Chairman, for managing risk.
The Board sets the Board papers are distributed in advance four Non-Executive Directors and three Groups strategy, maintains the policy and of the relevant meeting in sufficient time Executive Directors.
The Directors decision making framework in which this to allow the Directors to prepare for biographies and details of length of service are shown on pages 30 to 31. strategy is implemented, veries that the meetings.
Minutes of Committee meetings All the Directors have written letters of necessary financial and human resources are circulated to the relevant Directors.
In appointment that have been approved are in place to meet strategic aims, the very few instances when a Director by the Board and which are available monitors performance against key has not been able to attend Board or for inspection at the Companys financial and non-financial indicators, Committee meetings, his comments Annual General Meeting.
oversees the system of risk management on the papers to be considered at the and sets values and standards in meeting are communicated in advance governance matters.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance continued 36 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 The Non-Executive Directors meet Remuneration Committee in due course.
Mike Hughes, Senior Independent without the Executive Directors at least Nigel Keen also serves as Chairman of Non-Executive Director, has been a annually, with the Chairman leading Oxford Instruments Pension Trustee member of the Board since November these meetings.
The Non-Executive Limited, the Trustee of the Companys 2004.
He is currently the Chairman of EA Directors also meet annually without the UK dened benefit pension scheme.
The Technology Ltd and a Non-Executive Chairman in attendance.
The Deputy Board of the Company and the Board of Director of South Staffordshire Water Ltd. Chairman chairs these meetings.
the Trustee to the Pension Scheme have Previously he held senior management each independently considered whether positions within GEC before becoming The Company Secretary and the it is appropriate to have the Chairman of CEO of Midlands Electricity plc and then Company Secretarys Ofce are the Company as Chairman to the Board Executive Vice President of GPU Inc responsible for implementing Board of the Trustee of the Pension Scheme, International Operations Group.
Mike is a procedures and for advising the Board notwithstanding the potential conicts member of the Audit, Remuneration and on corporate governance matters.
of interest inherent in the same person Nomination Committees.
holding both these positions, and they BOARD BALANCE AND each have unanimously confirmed that Jock Lennox was appointed to the Board INDEPENDENCE they believe that it is in the interest of all as an Independent Non-Executive The Governance Code requires the parties for this to continue.
Until April 2009, Board should be of sufficient size that he was a Senior Audit Partner at Ernst & the balance of skills and experience is Mike Brady, Deputy Chairman and Young where he gained extensive appropriate for the requirements of the Non-Executive Director, has been a experience advising clients in a variety of business and that there is a balance of member of the Board since June 1995. industries on financial reporting, Executive and Non-Executive Directors He is Emeritus Professor in the nancing, transactions and international such that no individual or small group Department of Oncology and Biology at expansion.
Jock is Chairman of the Audit of individuals can dominate the Boards the University of Oxford, having recently Committee and is a member of the decision making.
retired as BP Professor of Information Remuneration and Nomination Engineering, and is one of the UKs Committees.
The Board believes that The composition of the Board and the leading engineers.
He brings a depth of Jocks skills, experience and knowledge combination of diverse backgrounds and technical expertise to Board discussions.
enhance and maintain an effective Board expertise of the Non-Executive Directors His independence of mind gained from a and provide a well qualied Chairman of meet these principles.
career as a senior academic supervisor of the Audit Committee.
research programmes in a major technical Bernard Taylor was appointed to the Nigel Keen, Chairman, has been a discipline at Oxford University, his Board as an Independent Non-Executive member of the Board since February technical expertise as the only NonDirector in November 2002.
He has a degree in engineering Executive Director from a scientific worked at various City institutions, from Cambridge University, is a Fellow profession and the value of that expertise including Robert Fleming & Co. Ltd where of the Institute of Chartered Accountants to Board discussions, the breadth of his he was Deputy Chairman and Chief and of the Institution of Engineering and professional and business interests Executive and at J. P. Morgan plc where Technology and has been involved in unrelated to the Group, his continual he was Vice-Chairman Investment the formation and development of high constructive probing of the technical aspect of proposals being considered by Banking.
He is Vice Chairman of Evercore technology businesses for more than the Board and the composition of the Partners and Chief Executive of its thirty years.
He fullled the independence Board generally leads the Board to European business.
He is also a fellow of criteria at the time of his appointment conclude that it is appropriate that he the Royal Society of Chemistry, Chairman as set out in the Governance Code.
He is should continue in ofce.
Although the of ISIS Innovation Ltd and a member of Chairman of the Nomination Committee Board continues to value Mikes input The Council of the University of Oxford.
and is also currently Chairman of the and does not regard this input as being Bernard will be retiring from the Board Remuneration Committee as the Board considered that whilst the Company was less valuable as a result of his tenure as a at the Companys forthcoming AGM.
a SmallCap company it was appropriate director of the Company, the Board has and necessary for the Chairman of the reviewed Mikes status as an independent Further information on each of the Board to also be Chairman of the director and in the light of guidance by Non-Executive Directors is to be found Remuneration Committee.
The Board is the Governance Code has determined in the Directors Biographies on pages actively looking to recruit a new Nonthat he should no longer be considered 30 to 31.
Executive Director with the appropriate independent.
Mike is a member of the mix of skills to take over the Chair of the Nomination Committee.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 37 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Independence of Throughout the year, Non-Executive in relation to the key areas of Board Non-Executive Directors Directors attend Oxford Instruments accountability and the arrangements in In the opinion of the Board, events, exhibitions and award place to enable effective focus on these Mike Hughes, Jock Lennox and Bernard presentations.
Topics covered included Group Taylor are independent and Mike Brady strategy, performance, delegation and is no longer considered independent in The Company Secretary and her ofce accountability, success, development accordance with the guidelines set out act as advisers to the Board on matters and reward, Board and Committee in the Governance Code.
The Board concerning governance and ensure composition, Board induction and training, considers that they are each independent compliance with Board procedures.
All internal control and risk management.
In in character and judgement and do not Directors have access to this advice and a addition, each director has prepared a have relationships which are likely to procedure also exists for Directors to take written statement concerning governance affect their judgement.
This opinion is independent professional advice at the of the Company and has discussed the based on current participation and Groups expense.
No such advice was statement with the Chairman at the performance on both the Board and sought during the year.
The appointment individual one-to-one interviews which Board Committees including and removal of the Company Secretary the Chairman holds with each director.
consideration of the length of service are matters for the Board as a whole.
The Chief Executive is also involved in at Oxford Instruments plc.
the process by giving his input on the Board evaluation way the Board helps him in his role.
The Term of appointment of In light of the provisions of Section B.
6.2 output from these evaluations allows the Non-Executive Directors of the Governance Code which expects Chairman to review objectively the overall Each Non-Executive Director was that an externally facilitated evaluation of balance of the Board.
The Non-Executive appointed for an initial term of three the Board be carried out at least Directors meet annually to appraise the years.
7.1 of the triennially, John Stopford, an emeritus Chairmans performance.
Governance Code, the Board has professor of the London Business School, determined that all directors of the Board carried out a light touch evaluation of ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS are to be subject to annual election by the governance review process in 2011.
No one other than the Committee shareholders and accordingly the He found that the process described Chairman and members is entitled appropriate resolutions will be put to below effectively reviews the mechanics to be present at a meeting of the shareholders at the Companys of the operation of the Board and he Nomination, Audit or Remuneration forthcoming AGM.
found the written statement on Committee, but others may attend by governance each director completes a invitation of the Committee.
No Director votes on matters where he has a conict BOARD DEVELOPMENT very helpful input.
His observation was of interest.
Further details of the AND EVALUATION that the Board was functional and individual Committees activities Board development effective.
Unfortunately he died before are described below.
On appointment, Directors undertake an being able to issue his final report induction process which is designed to although this had already been prepared The table on the following page sets develop knowledge and understanding in final draft form.
In light of Professor out the frequency of, and attendance at, of the Groups businesses through visits Stopfords observations, the Board and principal Board Committee to various Group operating sites, questionnaires, which are the starting point of the evaluation process, have meetings for the year to 31 March 2012. discussion of relevant technology, as well been remodelled to collect a more as product demonstrations, briengs rounded view of the operation of the from management and familiarisation Board and its Committees.
with investor perceptions of the Group.
For the year ended 31 March 2012, The operating business units senior the Board has completed its annual management teams present to the Board on a regular basis.
effectiveness evaluation exercise, including a specic review of the effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors are encouraged its principal committees and members.
to meet individual members of the senior This was an internal exercise under the management team and have done so control of the Chairman using a detailed during the year under review.
questionnaire completed by all Directors CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance continued 38 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Attendance at meetings Main Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 11 5 5 4 Nigel Keen 11 5 5 4 Jonathan Flint 11 5 1 3 Kevin Boyd 11 5 Charles Holroyd 10 3 Mike Brady 11 5 5 4 Mike Hughes 11554 Jock Lennox 11554 Bernard Taylor 11554 Attended by invitation BOARD COMMITTEES There is a formal, rigorous and transparent Board and to identify appropriate The Board has formed the following procedure for the appointment of new candidates for non-executive director Committees: Nomination, Remuneration, Non-Executive Directors to the Board, positions on the Board.
the prime responsibility for which is using information it has gathered, taking delegated to the Nomination Committee.
into account diversity within the Board Membership of Board Committees, which Each appointment process begins with and bearing in mind the desire to nd a is set out on page 30, is determined by an evaluation of the balance of skills, successor to the current Chairman of the the Board and is reviewed regularly.
The knowledge and experience existing on Remuneration Committee, it has drawn written terms of reference of the Board the Board that is effected through a series up descriptions of the role and desired Committees are reviewed annually by each of one-on-one meetings between the capabilities for candidates to help in the Committee and the Board and are available Committee Chairman and Directors.
The search of new non-executive directors.
on the Companys website at www.
Nomination Committee takes external The Committee is currently in the oxford-instruments.
com investors and from advice when considered appropriate.
process of drawing up a shortlist of the Company on request.
They will be on qualifying candidates.
These candidates display at the Annual General Meeting.
During the year, the Board and the will meet with the Chairman and the Nomination Committee have reviewed Deputy Chairman and a final selection NOMINATION COMMITTEE the composition of the Board.
The of potential appointees will meet several The Nomination Committee comprises length of service of its Non-Executive Directors individually.
Following these all the Non-Executive Directors, under Directors, the promotion of the meetings, the Nomination Committee will consider each Directors feedback the chairmanship of the Chairman of Company into the FTSE 250 and the and make a final recommendation to the Board.
The Nomination Committee changing requirements of the the Board concerning any appointment is responsible for assisting the Board in Governance Code for FTSE 350 or appointments.
the formal selection and appointment companies, together with further of Directors and considers succession reection on diversity within the Company, have led it to conclude that On joining the Board, new Non-Executive planning for the Board.
It also considers changes to the membership of the Board Directors are provided with an induction potential candidates and recommends and its Committees need further programme including site visits and appointments of new Directors to the consideration.
Accordingly a submeetings with senior management.
The appointments are based on committee has been established whose induction is supported by brieng papers merit and against objective criteria including the time available and the terms of reference are, with the help of prepared by the Company Secretary.
commitment that will be required of executive search consultants Korn Ferry, Major shareholders are provided with an the potential Director.
to evaluate the balance of skills, opportunity to meet any new Nonknowledge and experience on the Executive Directors.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 39 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 The Nomination Committee recommends Remuneration Committee are included in The Audit Committee has unrestricted to the Board whether a Non-Executive the Directors Remuneration Report set access to Group documents and Directors appointment should be out on pages 43 to 52. information, as well as to employees renewed each year, taking into account of the Group and the external auditor.
the performance of the individual.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee comprises all the The Audit Committee reviews all The Nomination Committee also annually Independent Non-Executive Directors and public statements containing financial reviews the performance of the Chief is chaired by Jock Lennox.
The Chairman information, including the half year and Executive and succession planning within and Deputy Chairman of the Board and annual financial statements and interim the business.
members of senior management such as management statements, together with the Chief Executive and Group Finance the related Stock Exchange REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Director are invited to attend all or part of announcements, having received The Remuneration Committee any meetings or to present such reports as information on the accounting principles, comprises all the Independent Nonare required for the Committee to discharge policies and practices adopted in the Executive Directors and the Chairman its duties.
The external auditors are invited Groups accounts, changes proposed to of the Board.
The Chairman of the to attend meetings of the Committee on those principles, policies and practices, Board, Nigel Keen, who fullled the a regular basis, including at the half year, significant accounting issues and independence criteria at the time of his at the planning stage before the audit and contingent liabilities affecting the Group, appointment as set out in the Governance after the audit at the reporting stage.
At potential tax contingencies and the Code, is Chairman of the Remuneration least once a year the Committee meets with Groups compliance with statutory Committee because the Board considers the external auditors without the Executive tax obligations.
that in a SmallCap company it is essential Directors present.
that the Chairman be involved in setting The Audit Committee is responsible for remuneration policy.
The Board is working The primary objective of the Audit the development, implementation and to appoint new Non-Executive Directors Committee is to assist the Board of monitoring of the Groups policy on during the course of 2012 and 2013 and is Directors in fullling its responsibilities external audit.
The Audit Committee expecting that one of these appointments relating to external financial reporting reserves oversight responsibility for will also be able to serve as Chairman of the and associated announcements, oversight monitoring the independence and Remuneration Committee.
The members of of the external audit process including objectivity of the external auditors.
the Committee are appointed by the Board.
consideration of the appointment, removal and independence of the A review takes place annually of the performance of the external The Remuneration Committee is Groups external auditors, the resourcing auditors following the completion responsible for recommending to the and plans of the Internal Audit function of the annual audit.
To assess the Board the remuneration packages for and the adequacy and effectiveness of effectiveness of the external auditors, Executive Directors and the bonus and the financial control environment.
the Audit Committee reviews: share option strategy for the Groups executive management.
Independent The Audit Committees terms of U The external auditors fullment of professional advice is sought when reference include all matters indicated by the Governance Code.
The terms the agreed audit plan and variations considered necessary.
Under its terms of reference are considered annually from the plan of reference the Chairman of the Board by the Audit Committee and are then may be Chairman of the Committee.
The referred to the Board for approval.
The U The robustness and perceptiveness of Board as a whole is responsible for xing Audit Committee structure requires the the auditors in their handling of key the remuneration of the Non-Executive inclusion of one member with relevant accounting and audit judgements Directors, including the Chairman.
recent financial experience, currently the Committee Chairman, and expects all U The external auditors comments in The Chief Executive is invited to attend Remuneration Committee meetings as Audit Committee members to be respect of financial controls deemed appropriate, for example when nancially literate.
consideration is being given to the To full its responsibility regarding the performance of other Executive Directors The Audit Committee Chairman reports independence of the external auditors, and on significant Group wide changes in the outcome of meetings to the Board the Audit Committee reviews the salary structure and terms and conditions and the Board receives minutes of all changes in key external audit staff in the affecting other employees at senior Audit Committee meetings.
external auditors plan for the current executive level.
Further details of the year, the arrangements for day-to-day CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance continued 40 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 management of the audit relationship, U Reports on the systems of financial section of the website provides financial a report from the external auditors controls and financial risk management and other information on the Group and describing their arrangements to the website itself carries additional identify, report and manage any The Groups Business Malpractice Policy information on the Groups products, conicts of interest and the overall comprises an internal process that has services and markets.
extent of non-audit services provided been communicated directly to all by the external auditors.
In addition, employees by which employees can raise ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM to safeguard auditor objectivity and a concern, including concerns relating to The Annual General Meeting is an independence when the external auditor fraud, damage to the environment, opportunity for the Board to meet provides non-audit services, the criminal activity or danger to health and shareholders.
At its AGM, the Group Chairman of the Audit Committee safety, in the knowledge that it will be complies with the provisions of the reviews the provision of non-audit taken seriously, treated as condential Governance Code relating to the disclosure services by the external auditors where and that no action will be taken against of proxy votes, the separation of resolutions the proposed fee exceeds 20,000 and them.
There is also provision within the and the attendance of Committee with formal Audit Committee approval Policy for employees to raise concerns Chairmen.
The Group arranges for the where fees are 50,000 or above.
directly with the Senior Independent Annual Reports and Financial Statements Competitor quotes are obtained Director.
The Policy is reviewed annually and related papers to be posted on its where the proposed fee is in excess by the Committee.
website and, where shareholders have of 100,000. elected to receive paper copies, posted ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE to shareholders so as to allow at least 20 Details of the audit fees, together with The Administration Committee consists working days for consideration prior to fees for non-audit services for the year, of a minimum of two Directors and deals the AGM.
The next AGM will be held on are set out in note 3 page 74 to the with items of a routine and administrative 11 September 2012 at the Groups ofces Financial Statements.
The Board receives a summary in Tubney, Oxfordshire.
outlining all matters decided by the The Audit Committee is required to assist Administration Committee since the RISK MANAGEMENT the Group Board to full its responsibilities previous Board Meeting.
Within the Group there is an relating to the adequacy and effectiveness ongoing embedded process for of the financial control environment.
This INVESTOR RELATIONS identifying, evaluating and managing includes consideration of the adequacy of The Group places considerable the significant risks faced by the Group.
both the resourcing and the plans of the importance on regular communications Day-to-day management of this process has been delegated by the Board to the Internal Audit function.
with its shareholders with whom it has Executive Directors.
an ongoing programme of dialogue.
All To full these duties the shareholders are encouraged to A standard process is in place Committee reviews: participate in the Annual General throughout the Group that requires Meeting at which the Chairman and the senior management of each business U The Groups risk framework and risk Chief Executive present an overview of to identify significant business risks and management policies the Groups business and review the results and make comments on strategy to classify them both as to probability and current business activity.
Once identied, U Any internal control findings mitigating action, where possible, is reported by the external auditor The Non-Executive Directors meet formulated and responsibility within the informally with shareholders both before management team assigned.
On a U The Internal Audit functions terms and after the Annual General Meeting and regular basis each business reviews and of reference, reporting lines and respond to shareholder queries and updates its risk summary which is then access to the Audit Committee requests.
The Chairman and the Senior reported to the Chief Executive.
If a and all members of the Board, and its plans and the outcomes of the Independent Director make themselves material risk changes or arises, the planned activity available to meet shareholders, as required.
Managing Director of the business reports this in writing to the Chief U Internal Audit reports on key All Group announcements are posted Executive at which time there is audit areas and significant control on the Group website, www.
oxforda discussion on the adequacy of the environment deficiencies instruments.
com investors, as soon as mitigating actions taken.
Details of all they are released.
The Investor Relations major risks identied and the mitigating CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 41 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 actions in place are reported to and Following an internal audit, local The key components designed to provide reviewed by the Board.
The Financial management are asked to comment on effective internal control within the review pages 16 to 23 gives an any issues raised and put in place Group are as follows: overview of the major risks and remedial action plans.
On a bi-annual uncertainties faced by the Group.
basis, a summary of the results of the U there is a formal schedule of matters non-financial audits is reported to the reserved to the Board for decision: In addition, the Board considers risks Board and a summary of the results of other than these matters, the Board to the Groups strategic objectives which the financial audits is reported to delegates to the Chief Executive and are not addressed within the Groups the Audit Committee.
reviews the delegation of authorities businesses and develops appropriate throughout the management structure: actions to manage and mitigate these risks.
There is a review at least annually of the internal audit process which determines U the Groups management structure INTERNAL AUDIT whether it continues to be t for comprises the General Committee The Group has an established process purpose or needs to be amended.
It has whose members have Group wide of internal audits of both financial and been determined that it continues to be financial responsibilities and to non-financial areas of all the Groups appropriate for internal audits to be whom day-to-day responsibility operating businesses and Head Ofce.
carried out by Group personnel as it is for the management of the Group Non-financial audits are overseen by the felt that this is the most appropriate way is delegated.
The responsibility Board and financial audits are overseen for a business of the size and complexity is based on the identication of by the Audit Committee.
This year the annual separate businesses for each of review has concluded that it is now the Groups activities, the heads U Non-financial audits are carried out appropriate to recruit a risk manager of these businesses together with in the areas of Operations, Human with specialist knowledge of internal the Chief Executive, the Group Resources, IT, Health and Safety and audit.
This appointment will manage the Finance Director and certain other Research and Development.
These internal audit process and will perform members of the senior management audits are carried out by the Group some of the financial audits.
team form the Groups Executive functional heads or their delegate.
There are clearly dened Audit cycles vary between one INTERNAL CONTROL lines of management responsibilities and four years dependent on the The Board is ultimately responsible for at all levels up to and including risk prole of that function in each the Groups system of internal control the Group Board and the Groups operating business.
and for reviewing its effectiveness.
accounting and reporting functions reect this organisation: However, such a system is designed to U Financial audits are carried out by manage rather than eliminate the risk of U financial executives within Group members of the finance function failure to achieve business objectives and businesses report to their own who are qualied accountants.
can provide only reasonable and not operational head but there is also a Approximately half of the audits absolute assurance against material well established and acknowledged are carried out by members of mis-statement or loss.
Day-to-day functional reporting relationship the Group finance team and half responsibility for maintaining adequate through to the Group Finance Director: by the operating businesses systems of internal control is delegated to the Executive Directors.
Finance Directors as it is felt that U the Board reviews strategic issues internal audits carried out on peer During the year the Directors have and options formally once a businesses allow a sharing of best reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups year during the annual strategic practice.
In Japan, internal audits system of internal controls.
planning process and during the are carried out by an external rm year as appropriate.
In addition the of auditors due to the significant These internal control procedures have Executive Directors maintain a three language barrier and the Head Ofce treasury function is reviewed been in place for the year under review year planning model of the Group by external consultants.
Financial and up to the date of approval of the and its individual businesses: internal audits occur on a three year report.
They are regularly reviewed by cycle unless risk factors trigger a the Board and accord with the Turnbull U annual budgets are prepared for more frequent occurrence.
These controls include each of the Groups businesses financial, operational, compliance and which include monthly gures for risk management.
turnover, profit, capital expenditure: cash ow and borrowings.
The CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance continued 42 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 budgets are reviewed through the U non-financial internal audit U all requests to quote for substantial Group management structure and visits are conducted by the xed price contracts are reviewed by result in a Group financial budget Groups functional heads, the Chief Executive and or the Group which is considered and approved or their delegates: Finance Director to assess both by the Board: technical and financial risk and to x U work performed is based on an appropriate balance between risk U the businesses prepare monthly a standardised Group format and reward.
However, no procedure management accounts which compare but involves random testing, can guarantee the avoidance of the actual operating result with together with a review of the losses on xed price contracts of a both the budget and the prior year.
internal control questionnaire: technical nature: and The businesses also prepare rolling reforecasts for orders, turnover, U where required, action plans U with respect to the UK pension operating profit and cash.
Both are are drawn up by the businesses scheme the Group has its own reviewed by the Board monthly: in conjunction with the Group trustee representatives, involves Finance Director or, for nonits own independent actuary with U the Board approves all acquisition financial audits, with the relevant whom actuarial assumptions are and divestment proposals and there functional head to remedy any reviewed, agrees the investment are established procedures for the significant control weaknesses policy with the Trustee, ensures there planning, approval and monitoring that are identied from is an independent actuarial valuation of capital expenditure: completion of the internal control every three years and agrees funding questionnaire or as a result of levels to provide adequate funding U for all major investments the the internal audit.
The results to meet the benefit payments of the performance of at least the first of audit reviews are reported to members as they fall due.
twelve months against the original local management, the Group proposal is reviewed by the Board: Finance Director and the Audit Committee or Board and checks U each Group site, except for on the progress of the action Susan Johnson-Brett representative sales ofces, is required items arising are made: Company Secretary to submit a self assessment internal control questionnaire annually: U the Board receives regular updates 12 June 2012 on treasury, tax, property, U internal audit is carried out through pensions, insurance, litigation, a system of regular reviews of the human resources, corporate social financial and non-financial internal responsibility, business ethics and controls at each site.
These reviews health and safety matters: are coordinated by a manager in Head Ofce.
U authorisation limits are set at appropriate levels throughout the U financial internal audit Group: compliance with these limits visits are conducted by is monitored by the Group Finance Director and internal audit: accountants from other parts of the Group and in Japan, due to language differences, by local external auditors:
