GOVERNANCE The directors recognise the importance of sound corporate The directors believe it is essential for the company to be led governance, whilst taking into account the size and nature and controlled by an effective board which monitors progress of the company.
The company has fully complied with the through monthly reports and management accounts.
The board provisions set out in the Financial Reporting Councils UK has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
The most Corporate Governance the Code for the year ended 25 March significant of these are the approval of: 2012, a copy of which can be found at www.
corporate strategy of the group and the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets: This statement describes how the principles of corporate the appointment of the Chief Executive, other directors and governance in the Code are applied by the company.
the Company Secretary: major capital investments: annual and half yearly financial statements: The board interim management statements: and The board comprises nine directors: David Newlands, the nonacquisitions and disposals.
executive Chairman, three executive directors, Dominic Taylor, George Earle and Tim Watkin-Rees, and five non-executive The board met six times during the year and all meetings were directors, Eric Anstee, David Morrison, Andrew Robb, Stephen attended by all board members except for Eric Anstee and Rowley and Nick Wiles.
Steve Rowley who were each unable to attend one meeting.
Where a director is unable to attend, he provides input through The board considers that David Newlands, Eric Anstee, Andrew discussion with the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Robb, Stephen Rowley and Nick Wiles are independent for the purposes of the Code.
Given the size of the company and its A formal performance evaluation of the board, its committees ownership structure, the board has concluded that the proportion and individual directors took place during the year.
The of independent non-executive directors is appropriate.
performance of individual executive directors is appraised annually by the Chief Executive, to whom they report.
The The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the board and performance of the Chairman is reviewed by the non-executive ensuring the effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
The board directors, led by Andrew Robb, Senior Independent Director, is comprised of an appropriate balance of skills, experience, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
independence and knowledge, which enables it to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
The balance of independence creates The performance review of the Chief Executive is conducted by an environment that encourages the effective challenge and the Chairman, taking into account the views of other directors.
development of proposals on strategy.
All the non-executive Non-executive directors performance is reviewed by the directors bring considerable knowledge and experience to board Chairman, taking into account the views of other directors.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any of the companys share schemes or bonus schemes and their The performance evaluation confirmed that the members of service is non-pensionable.
the board were satisfied with the boards overall performance and there were no material changes recommended.
In addition Biographical details of each of the current serving directors to the evaluation of board members, the various committees are set out on page 20.
Procedures exist to allow the directors carried out self-assessments to determine whether their terms to seek independent professional advice in respect of their of reference had been satisfactorily fullled and how their duties at the companys expense where the circumstances are processes could be improved.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary.
An external performance evaluation of the board will take place The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive once every three years in line with the requirements of the Code.
directors and the executive directors service contracts are available for inspection at the companys registered ofce Every member of the board will offer himself for re-election during normal business hours and will be available at the annual at the 2012 annual general meeting.
recommendations in respect of the re-election of each director can be found in the notice of meeting on pages 50 to 54.
The Chairman, David Newlands, chairs board meetings and regularly consults with the executive directors regarding ongoing The Chief Executive proactively manages succession planning business.
His other significant commitments are disclosed in for the executives and senior management team and keeps the his biography on page 20.
The board considers that these board updated on developments as necessary.
commitments do not hinder his ability to discharge his responsibilities to the company and its subsidiaries the group effectively.
PayPoint plc annual report 2012 17 GOVERNANCE continued The appointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditor is kept Committees of the board under annual review.
Rather than adopting a policy on The following formally constituted committees deal with specic tendering frequency, an annual review of the effectiveness aspects of the groups affairs in accordance with the duties and of the external audit is undertaken by the committee.
The responsibilities formally delegated to them by the board.
The committees assessment of the external auditors performance terms of reference for each of the committees are available on and independence, if satisfactory, underpins its recommendation the companys website at www.
to the board to propose to shareholders the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor.
A resolution for its re-appointment will Audit committee be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting, the The audit committee comprises Eric Anstee, Andrew Robb, notice for which can be found on pages 50 to 54.
Stephen Rowley and Nick Wiles.
The board considers Eric Anstee, who is Chairman of the audit committee, to have recent Remuneration committee and relevant financial experience in accordance with the Code.
It The role, composition and activities of the remuneration met five times during the year.
All members were in attendance committee and details of how the company applies the principles with the exception of Eric Anstee, who was unable to attend one of the Code in respect of directors remuneration are set out in of the meetings.
On that occasion, it was chaired by Andrew Robb.
the remuneration committee report on pages 23 to 28.
The audit committee is primarily responsible for monitoring that Nomination committee the financial performance of the group is properly measured The nomination committee comprises Eric Anstee, Andrew and reported and appropriate financial control systems and Robb, Stephen Rowley, David Morrison, Nick Wiles and David procedures are in place.
During the year, the committee: Newlands, who is its Chairman.
It met once during the year and reviewed reports from the auditor relating to the groups all members were in attendance.
accounting and internal controls: advised the board on the appointment, performance, independence and objectivity of The committee is responsible for considering and making the auditor and the internal auditor: reviewed the effectiveness recommendations on the appointment of additional directors, of the groups systems of internal control, including fraud the retirement of existing directors and for reviewing the size, prevention: reviewed the appropriateness of the internal audit structure and composition of the board and membership of board programme and the reports of the internal auditor.
committees, which are considered against objective criteria.
The committee considered the level of non-audit fees for The committee considers the need for progressive refreshment services provided by the auditor in order to satisfy itself that and keeps the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity and auditor independence is safeguarded.
The group has a policy experience of the board under review.
During considerations which prohibits the auditor providing certain services which on the appointment and retention of non-executive directors, might impair its independence.
The committee monitors the committee has regard to the need for particularly rigorous compliance with the policy safeguarding the independence of the external auditor.
The policy also prescribes that any review and the need to progressively refresh the board where non-audit services to be performed by the auditor in any one terms of appointment are beyond six years.
year excluding tax services are to be provisionally capped at an aggregate total equivalent to the level of the annual audit The Senior Independent Director would chair discussions relating fee.
Any proposal to use the auditor for non-audit services to succession planning for the Chairman.
exceeding this will be subject to the prior approval of the audit committee.
In determining the most appropriate provider of Conicts of interest non-audit services, the committee will consider the knowledge Under the articles of association, the board has authority to and expertise of the potential providers and the proposed costs.
approve any conicts or potential conicts of interest that are Non-audit services will only be undertaken by the auditor where declared by individual directors: conditions may be attached to they are deemed to be the preferred provider and the provision such approvals and directors will generally not be entitled to of services poses no threat to its independence.
Details of the participate in discussions or vote on matters in which they have remuneration paid to the auditor for the statutory audit and or may have a conict of interest.
non-audit services, which normally are limited to assurance and tax advice, are set out in note 5.
A register of conicts is maintained and is reviewed at least annually to ensure all details are kept up-to-date.
Authorisation The audit committee meets the external auditor without is sought prior to the appointment of any new director or if any the executive directors being present and procedures are in new conicts arise.
place which allow access at any time of both external and internal auditor to the audit committee.
The Chairman of the committee reports the outcome of each meeting to the board, which is provided with the minutes of all committee meetings.
18 PayPoint plc annual report 2012 GOVERNANCE continued Risk management and internal control Shareholder relations The directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining The directors consider that the annual report and accounts the groups system of internal control, and for regularly play an important role in providing shareholders with an reviewing its effectiveness.
Procedures have been designed evaluation of the companys position and prospects.
The board to meet the particular needs of the group and its risks, aims to achieve clear reporting of financial performance to all safeguarding shareholders investments and the companys shareholders.
The board acknowledges the importance of an assets.
Such a system is designed to manage, rather than open dialogue with its institutional shareholders and welcomes eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and correspondence from private investors.
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process of We believe that, in addition to the annual report and the identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced companys website, the annual general meeting is an ideal by the group.
forum at which to communicate with investors, and the board encourages their participation.
The Senior Independent Director All procedures necessary to comply with the FRCs Internal is available to address any unresolved shareholder concerns.
Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code have been in place throughout the year under review and The company held briengs with institutional fund managers, up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial analysts and other investors following the announcement of half statements.
The directors have conducted a formal review of yearly results and feedback from these has been reported to the the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control during board.
Meetings have been held at other times during the year the year.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identied when appropriate.
The operational management of the group is delegated to senior managers who are appointed by the Chief Executive.
The responsibilities of the senior management group include the regular review of the main business risks to the group.
The group has prepared a detailed risk register which includes analysis of all the main operational risks covering all parts of the groups business activities, including financial risks.
The group evaluates and prioritises the identied key operational risks.
In order to ensure that this process is managed effectively, responsibility for each key risk area is assigned to a member of senior management, who must confirm in writing that the potential threats in each area have been properly identied and recorded and the appropriate action taken to mitigate risks so far as possible.
This process has been fully embedded into the operations of the business.
The audit committee receives regular updates on the ongoing risk management, control systems and processes, which are discussed at their meetings.
KPMG is the internal auditor and conducts a rigorous internal audit programme covering all the groups key business areas.
The audit committee approved the current programme in March 2011 and, each year, the programme is reviewed to ensure that account is taken, where necessary, of any change.
In addition, independent internal audits are conducted for assessment: of compliance with ISO IEC 27001:2005 information security management, which takes place twice annually: by LINK auditors, on an annual basis, which assesses control over LINK related ATM systems: by independent assessors for Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard compliance: and audits by our clients from time to time.
