48 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Board governance Corporate governance Senior independent director Vivienne Cox is the companys senior independent Introduction director, having been appointed to the role on The board believes that during 2012 the company was 1 January 2013 following Patrick Cescaus resignation in full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance from the board.
A detailed account of the provisions of the Code can be found on the FRCs website at Viviennes role will include meeting regularly with the www.
uk and we encourage readers to view chairman and chief executive to discuss specific issues, our compliance schedule on the company website at e. g. strategy, attending meetings with major www.
com investors  to understand any issues or concerns information governance they may have, as well as being available to shareholders generally if they should have concerns The board embraces the Codes underlying principles that have not been addressed through the normal with regard to board balance and diversity and the channels.
In her first year with Pearson, Vivienne has nomination committee, led by the chairman, is actively been instrumental in the introduction of the boards seeking additional suitable candidates who possess the reputation and responsibility committee, which she right mix of knowledge, skills and experience to chairs, and in improving the quality of health and safety enhance debate and decision-making.
Composition of the board During 2012, Patrick Cescau held separate sessions The board currently consists of the chairman, with the other non-executive directors and the Glen Moreno, five executive directors including the chief executive to appraise the performance of the chief executive, John Fallon, and five independent chairman, including in relation to the effectiveness of non-executive directors.
Following his departure in December, Patrick was invited back in February 2013 As reported, Rona Fairhead will step down from the to conduct similar sessions in respect of the chairmans board at the forthcoming AGM.
Additionally, subject performance during 2012 as part of the annual board to completion of the Penguin Random House venture, evaluation process.
Vivienne, as senior independent John Makinson will be appointed as chairman of director, will then take responsibility for appraising the Penguin Random House and it is intended that he will chairmans performance during 2013 and beyond.
step down from the Pearson board at that time.
The senior independent director would be expected to chair the nomination committee in the event that Chairman and chief executive it was considering succession to the role of chairman There is a defined split of responsibilities between the of the board.
chairman and the chief executive.
The chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership of the board Independence of directors and ensuring its effectiveness: the chief executive is All of the non-executive directors were considered by responsible for the operational management of the the board to be independent for the purposes of the business and for the development and implementation Code during the year ended 31 December 2012. of the companys strategy as agreed by the board.
The roles and responsibilities of the chairman and The board reviews the independence of each of chief executive are clearly defined, set out in writing the non-executive directors annually.
This includes and reviewed and agreed by the board annually.
reviewing their external appointments and any potential conflicts of interest as well as assessing their Chairman individual circumstances in order to ensure that there In May 2012, Glen Moreno stood down from his role are no relationships or circumstances likely to affect as deputy chairman and senior independent director their character or judgement.
Apart from this, there were Susan Fuhrman has now served on the board for more no changes to the chairmans significant commitments than eight years.
Throughout that time, Susan, as during the course of 2012. a leader in educational reform and efficacy, has made a very positive contribution to our board and committee work.
Susan has indicated that she intends to stand down from the board at the 2014 AGM.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 49 GOVERNANCE AND SHAREHOLDER MATTERS: Length of tenure of non-executive directors Years 26 AND 27 APRIL 2012, LONDON Arculus 7 Focus on forthcoming AGM and review of Cox 1 shareholder issues Fuhrman 8 Findings of external report on shareholders views Hydon 7 Review of corporate social responsibility Lewis 2 Board effectiveness review Acquisition of Certiport Conflicts of interest Acquisition of Global English Since October 2008, directors have had a statutory duty under the Companies Act 2006 the Act to avoid STRATEGY: 4, 5 AND 6 JUNE 2012, SO PAULO conflicts of interest with the company.
The companys Articles of Association Articles allow the directors Strategy discussions review of Brazilian to authorise conflicts of interest.
The company has education business established a procedure to identify actual and potential Review of Pearsons Leading on Standards publication conflicts of interest, including all directorships or other on the future of examinations in Britain appointments to, or relationships with, companies Acquisition of Author Solutions, Inc. which are not part of the Pearson Group and which could give rise to actual or potential conflicts of BUSINESS PERFORMANCE: 25 AND 26 JULY 2012, LONDON interest.
Once notified to the chairman or company Interim results and dividend approval secretary, such conflicts are considered for Post-acquisition reviews authorisation by the board at its next scheduled Discussion on formation of reputation and meeting.
The relevant director cannot vote on an responsibility committee authorisation resolution, or be counted in the quorum, Acquisition of Inframation Group in relation to the resolution relating to his her conflict or potential conflict.
The board reviews any STRATEGY: 4 OCTOBER 2012, LONDON authorisations granted on an annual basis.
Trading update Board meetings Five-year strategic plan The board held six scheduled meetings in 2012, with Review of standing committee terms of reference some meetings taking place over two or more days.
Acquisition of EmbanetCompass In recent years, we have developed our board meeting Discussion of Penguin Random House venture agenda to ensure that board discussion and debate is John Fallons first meeting following his appointment centred on the key strategic issues facing the company.
to the board Over the course of 2012 the major items covered by the board included: STRATEGIC PLAN: 6 DECEMBER 2012, NEW YORK Strategic plan India business BUSINESS PERFORMANCE: 23 FEBRUARY 2012, LONDON Options for Pearson in Practice business 2011 report and accounts and dividend Risk assessment and review of mitigating actions recommendation Triennial valuation of UK defined benefit pension fund 2012 operating plan Annual review of chief executive authorisation limits Risk assessment and review of mitigating actions and procedures Annual review of authorised conflicts Review of chief executive transition Review of division of responsibilities between In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the board chairman and chief executive held one further full meeting to approve the Penguin Review of treasury policy Random House venture and undertook Presentation by Sir Michael Barber on efficacy, discussions as required to consider the terms research and educational reform of corporate transactions.
