Governance Chairmans introduction to governance The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance in the best interests of its shareholders and other stakeholders.
Dear shareholder I am pleased to introduce the Corporate Governance Report for 2012 on behalf of the Board.
The Annual Report remains the principal means of reporting to our shareholders on the Boards governance policies.
This Report sets out how the main and supporting principles of good corporate governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code June 2010 have been applied in practice.
The Code is publicly available on the Financial Reporting Council FRC website frcpublications.
com Role of the Board and its effectiveness My primary role as Chairman is to provide leadership to the Board and to provide the right environment to enable the Directors and the Board as a whole to perform effectively to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders.
In doing so we take account of the interests of our customers, employees, suppliers, communities in which we operate and other interested stakeholders.
I rmly believe that we have good governance in place and that we operate effectively as a Board.
However there is always room for improvement and each year we carry out a detailed performance Ken Harvey evaluation of the Board and each of the Committees as well as Chairman, of the Directors and the Group General Counsel & Company Pennon Group Plc Secretary.
Further details of the review, which was facilitated by an external governance consultancy for the first time, are set out later in this report.
I remain mindful of the need to ensure that the Non-executive Directors continue to have appropriate up to date knowledge and understanding of both South West Water and Viridor as they develop and pursue new initiatives.
Last year the Board had a number of visits to key sites within both South West Water and Viridor and met and discussed the then current issues with managers and employees across the Group.
This year the Board has concentrated on receiving presentations from senior management on material developments in the businesses including our energy from waste plant projects: landll gas management: energy production from landll: and regulatory and legislative changes proposed by Ofwat and Government.
42 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Financial statements Remuneration The Board and the Remuneration Committee remain mindful of Guide to the contents shareholder and the Governments concerns regarding some of the Governance report companies remuneration practices.
We have always pursued a remuneration policy of setting pay Directors biographies p44 at a level which is just sufficient to attract and retain high calibre management and providing incentives which are fully aligned Board Directors independence and responsibilities p46 with creating shareholder value.
We have reviewed our pay and How the Board operates p46 benets practice again this year and are satisfied no changes are Performance evaluation p46 necessary to maintain this policy.
Dealing with conicts of interest p47 Shareholder engagement Audit Committee p47 The Directors and I recognise the importance and value of regular communications with our shareholders.
This ensures that Sustainability Committee p49 we understand their needs and wishes and hopefully that we Nomination Committee p49 provide them with confidence that we have the right governance Internal control and risk identication p50 structures, processes and systems in place to assist us in Going concern statement p51 achieving our stated objectives.
Directors responsibilities statement p51 A regular dialogue with the Companys institutional shareholders is maintained through a comprehensive investor relations Corporate governance statements p51 programme.
During the year some 60 meetings with institutional Remuneration Committee p52 shareholders including with prospective shareholders were Elements of remuneration p52 held and attended by the Group Director of Finance and the Companys Investor Relations Manager.
The Chief Executive Remuneration policy for Executive Directors including of South West Water, the Chief Executive of Viridor and I also incentive plans, pensions and service contracts p53 participated when appropriate.
The Group Director of Finance Total shareholder return graph p56 reports to the Board regularly on major shareholders views about Remuneration policy, including fee levels and contracts for the Group and every six months the Companys Brokers give a services, for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors p56 presentation to the Board on equity market developments and Emoluments of Directors table p57 shareholder perceptions.
Executive Directors pensions table p57 I also actively encourage the participation of shareholders at our Annual General Meeting and as usual at our 2012 Annual General Directors share interests p58 Meeting on 26 July all our Directors aim to be present together with a number of directors and executives of South West Water and Viridor to meet with shareholders to discuss the business of the Group.
Compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code and other requirements I am pleased to report that throughout the year the Company complied with the provisions and applied the main principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code with no exceptions toreport.
My introduction to this Corporate Governance Report and the following sections are made in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, FSA Listing Rule 9.8.
6 and FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules 7.1 and 7.2 and cover the work of our Board and its Committees: our internal control systems and procedures including risk management: our corporate governance statements relating to share capital and control: and our Going concern and Directors responsibilities statements.
Ken Harvey Chairman 18 June 2012 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43 Governance Board of Directors Chairman Executive Directors Kenneth George Harvey CBE, BSc Colin Irwin John Hamilton Drummond OBE, MA, MBA, LTCL, CCMI Chairman Chief Executive, Viridor Committees Committees Nomination Chairman Sustainability, Executive Appointed on 1 March 1997.
Ken was formerly chairman and chief Appointed on 1 April 1992.
Prior to joining the Company Colin was executive of Norweb Plc.
He was chairman of National Grid Holdings a divisional chief executive of Coats Viyella, having previously been in 1995 and was previously deputy chairman of London Electricity and corporate development director of Renold plc, a strategy consultant with earlier its engineering director.
He has also been chairman of a number the Boston Consulting Group and an ofcial of the Bank of England.
of limited and private equity funded companies.
Currently he is the senior He is chairman of the Governments Living with Environmental Change independent non-executive director of National Grid Plc.
Business Advisory Board and of the Environmental Sustainability Knowledge Transfer Network.
He is a senior visiting research fellow in Earth Sciences at Oxford University and a Past Master of the Worshipful Company of Water Conservators.
Non-executive Directors Martin David Angle BSc Hons, FCA, MCSI Gerard Dominic Connell MA Non-executive Director Senior Independent Non-executive Director Committees Committees Audit, Sustainability, Nomination, Remuneration Chairman Audit Chairman, Sustainability, Nomination, Remuneration Appointed on 1 December 2008.
Martin currently holds non-executive Appointed on 1 October 2003.
Gerard currently is also a non-executive directorships with Savills plc, OAO Severstal, Shuaa Capital PSC and director and chairman of the audit committee of the Defence Science The National Exhibition Centre where he is Chairman.
In addition he and Technology Laboratory and the independent director, finance and sits on the Board of the FIA Foundation where he is a vice-chairman.
investment, of the Nuclear Decommissioning Fund Company Limited.
Formerly he held senior positions with Terra Firma Capital Partners and He was previously group finance director of Wincanton Plc.
Before that various of its portfolio companies, including the executive chairmanship he was a director of Hill Samuel and a managing director of Bankers of Waste Recycling Group Limited.
Before that he was the group finance Trust, having trained originally at Price Waterhouse.
In addition he has director of TI Group plc and held a number of senior investment banking held other corporate finance and business development positions positions with SG Warburg & Co Ltd, Morgan Stanley and Dresdner in the City and in industry.
He is also a governor of Kings College Kleinwort Benson.
44 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Financial statements David Jeremy Dupont MA, MBA Christopher Loughlin BSc Hons, MICE, CEng, MBA Group Director of Finance Chief Executive, South West Water Committees Committees Executive Sustainability, Executive Appointed on 2 March 2002.
David was formerly regulatory and finance Appointed on 1 August 2006.
Chris was previously chief operating director of South West Water Limited, having joined Pennon Group Plc officer with Lloyds Register and earlier in his career was an executive then South West Water Plc in 1992 as strategic planning manager.
director of British Nuclear Fuels Plc and executive chairman of Magnox Previously he held business planning and development roles with Electric Plc.
He was also a senior diplomat in the British Embassy, Tokyo, Gateway Corporation.
He is a member of the CBI Environmental Affairs working in both the consulting and contracting sectors.
Chris started Committee and the CBI South West Regional Council.
his career as a chartered engineer and subsequently held a number of senior positions with British Nuclear Fuels.
Between April 2008 and March 2012 he was chairman of Water UK and currently is vicechairman of the Cornwall Local Enterprise Partnership and a member of the audit committee of the charity, WaterAid.
Company Secretary Dinah Alison Nichols CB, BA Hons Kenneth David Woodier, Solicitor, CMA, DMS, CPE Law Non-executive Director Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Committees Committees Audit, Sustainability Chairman, Nomination, Remuneration Executive Appointed on 12 June 2003.
Dinah was formerly Director General Appointed company secretary to the Board in March1998.
Ken was Environment at the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs formerly the head of group legal services at Pennon Group Plc then and previously held various senior appointments within Government, South West Water Plc from February 1990.
Previously he held senior including being head of the water directorate during the period of water legal positions with H. P. Bulmer Holdings Plc, Investors in Industry Plc privatisation.
She is also a Crown Estate Counsellor, a non-executive 3i and Severn Trent Water.
He is a director of the Devon & Somerset director of the Land Trust and Keep Britain Tidy and, until recently, Law Society and a member of its governance committee.
a director of Aberdeen Smaller Companies High Investment Trust.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45 Governance Corporate governance and internal control The Board and its Committees All Directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship The Board of the Groups affairs, with the Non-executive Directors having The Directors, independence and responsibilities a particular responsibility for ensuring that strategies proposed The Board of Directors at the end of the year comprised the for the development of the business are critically reviewed.
The Chairman, three Executive Directors and three Non-executive Non-executive Directors also critically examine the operational and Directors.
The Non-executive Directors were considered by financial performance of the Group and full a key role in corporate the Board to be independent throughout the year.
None of the accountability through their membership of the Committees of relationships or circumstances set out in provision B.
In addition the Chairman holds meetings with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code applied to them.
Non-executive Directors, without the Executive Directors present, Following this years Annual General Meeting and subject to to discuss performance and strategic issues.
re-election, Dinah Nichols will have served on the Board for more How the Board operates than nine years since her first election.
However Dinah has been In accordance with Group policies the Board has a schedule of determined by the Board to be independent.
The Board is satisfied matters reserved for its decision and delegates more detailed that she does and will continue to demonstrate independence of consideration of certain matters to Board Committees: to character and judgement in the performance of her role on the the subsidiary boards of South West Water and Viridor: to Board.
All of the Non-executive Directors are considered to have the Executive Directors: and to the Group General Counsel & the appropriate skills, experience in their respective disciplines Company Secretary, as appropriate.
The matters reserved to the and personality to bring independent and objective judgement to Board include the approval of financial statements: acquisitions the Boards deliberations.
Their biographies on pages 44 and 45 and disposals: major items of capital expenditure: authority levels demonstrate a broad range of business and financial experience.
for other expenditure: risk management: and approval of the Gerard Connell is the Senior Independent Non-executive strategic plan and annual operating budgets.
His duties include leading the annual evaluation of the The Board operates by receiving written reports circulated in performance of the Chairman by the Non-executive Directors and advance of its meetings from the Executive Directors and the being available as an additional point of contact on the Board for Group General Counsel & Company Secretary on matters within shareholders.
Gerard is also chairman of the Audit Committee their respective business areas in the Group.
Under the guidance and in accordance with the Codes principles relating to audit of the Chairman, all matters before the Board are discussed committee membership he has recent and relevant financial openly and presentations and advice are received frequently from experience as set out in his biography on page 44.
Martin Angle other senior executives within the Group or from external advisers.
is also a member of the Audit Committee and he has relevant Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group financial experience as set out in his biography on page 44.
General Counsel & Company Secretary and the Board has There is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles of established a procedure whereby Directors, in order to full Chairman and the Chief Executives of South West Water and their duties, may seek independent professional advice at the Viridor as recorded in the descriptions of the roles approved by Companys expense.
All Directors are now subject to re-election each year in accordance with provision B.
The training needs of Directors are reviewed as part of the performance evaluation process.
The search for an additional non-executive director is well under way.
The intention is to appoint a director who is considered to Performance evaluation be independent and who will be a member of the Remuneration, The Board has well developed internal procedures to evaluate Audit, Nomination and Sustainability committees.
the performance of the whole Board, each Committee, the Chairman, each individual Director and the Group General The Directors on the Board and their attendance at the 11 Counsel & Company Secretary.
The evaluation procedure relating scheduled meetings of the Board during 2011 12 are shownbelow: to the Board and its Committees was administered this year by Board an external governance consultancy, Lintstock.
All participants Members Appointment date Attendance views were sought via an online questionnaire on a range of questions which were specically designed by the Chairman Kenneth Harvey and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary in Chairman March 1997 11 11 conjunction with Lintstock to ensure objective evaluation of Non-executive Directors: performance.
Responses were then summarised and evaluated Martin Angle December 2008 11 11 by Lintstock for the Board and each Committee to consider and Gerard Connell October 2003 11 11 determine whether any changes should be made to be more effective.
A meeting between the Chairman, the Group General Dinah Nichols June 2003 11 11 Counsel & Company Secretary and Lintstock was then held to Executive Directors: discuss the high level findings of the evaluation and to consider Colin Drummond April 1992 11 11 them in the context of governance developments generally.
While performance was again considered to be satisfactory, there were David Dupont March 2002 11 11 a number of suggestions made to rene the overall effectiveness Christopher Loughlin August 2006 11 11 of the Board which the Board agreed should be introduced over 46 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Financial statements the following months when appropriate.
For example it was agreed Dealing with Directors conicts of interest that performance could be improved further through a number of The Board has in place a procedure for the consideration minor changes to Board reports and discussions at the beginning and authorisation of Directors conicts or possible conicts of each meeting on topical issues.
This is in accordance with the Directors interests provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and The Chairmans performance was evaluated separately by the the Companys Articles of Association which grants to Directors Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Nonauthority to approve such conicts subject to appropriate executive Director.
The Chairmans other significant commitments conditions.
outside the Group have not changed during the year and the Board is satisfied that such commitments do not prejudice the Board committees Chairmans performance in relation to his Group role.
Group policies allocate the tasks of giving detailed consideration to specified matters, to monitoring executive actions and to assessing reward, to the Board Committees as set out in the remaining sections of this Governance Report and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 and 53.
As part of the Groups risk review process this year we have once again assessed the key areas of sensitivity to the Group and these are set out on pages 28 to 33.
We have concentrated on the high level key risks to the Group and have provided an indication of how the level of risk has changed over the past year.
As reported in previous Annual Reports we continue to monitor carefully the effectiveness of our external auditors as well as their independence, bearing in mind that it is recognised there is a need to use our auditors rm for nonaudit services from time to time.
We have full regard to the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards and ensure that our procedures and safeguards meet these standards.
Periodically a detailed review of the provision of external Gerard Connell, Audit Committee Chairman auditors is undertaken in accordance with best practice.
The last such review was undertaken in 2006 when the The Audit Committee current auditors were appointed following a comprehensive Members Appointment date Attendance competitive tender process.
In addition the auditors appointment is reviewed annually by the Committee.
Gerard Connell As part of this annual review the Committee considers Chairman October 2003 6 6 the tenure, quality and fees of the auditors.
Martin Angle December 2008 6 6 Our policy for the engagement of the auditors rm for nonDinah Nichols June 2003 6 6 audit work involves the Group Director of Finance setting out in a report to the Committee the reasons for appointing Our activities during the year the auditors rm for any material work and obtaining the A continuing focus this year has been reviewing the systems approval of the Committee.
We carefully review whether it and controls in place in Viridor to manage its increasingly is necessary for the auditors rm to carry out such work complex and regionalised businesses across the UK.
and we will only grant approval for their appointment It is important to ensure that Viridor continues to have if we are satisfied that the auditors independence and appropriate processes and controls in place to manage the objectivity are fully safeguarded.
strong growth expected from its energy from waste plants, The Companys auditors assist in this process by ensuring its developing recycling businesses and the major contracts that the senior partner responsible for the external audit of with waste authorities.
The Committee was pleased to note the Group remains responsible for such audit for no more that plans are also being developed to deliver significant than five years and that there is a Quality Review Partner enhancements and upgrading of IT systems and that who is involved in planning the audit and in the reviewing regular internal audits at local sites are demonstrating that of the final accounts of the Company including assessing new controls and systems put in place have been working any critical matters which may be identied in the audit.
The auditors have also confirmed to the Committee that In South West Water the emphasis has been on continuing they have complied with all relevant guidance issued to manage systems in place as efficiently as possible by the Auditing Practices Board and have implemented whilst ensuring that risks are being appropriately assessed appropriate safeguards including: and controls in place are operating satisfactorily.
The t BMM OPO BVEJU SFMBUFE TFSWJDFT XIFSF OFDFTTBSZ CFJOH Committee was pleased to note that South West Waters risk performed by personnel independent of the audit assessment and internal control processes remain robust.
engagement team We decided to review our risk review process this year t OP XPSL CFJOH VOEFSUBLFO UIBU XPVME SFRVJSF UIF bearing in mind that it is 12 years since the Group introduced auditors to act in a capacity as an advocate detailed risk management policies and procedures in t OP BTQFDU PG UIF BVEJUJOH FOHBHFNFOU QBSUOFS T accordance with the Turnbull Recommendations.
We performance being assessed on the level of non-audit appointed Deloitte to undertake a full review: to date we have fees charged to the Company received a valuable interim report which is to be followed t UIF $PNNJUUFF $IBJSNBO NFFUJOH XJUI UIF BVEJUPST up shortly by a presentation to the Committee and the Quality Review Partner periodically to discuss the scope Board to enable us to consider any changes which may and performance of their work.
be appropriate to existing processes.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47
