Directors report Other statutory information Principal activities and business review The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries executive Directors do not have service contracts.
The Chairman, the Group are the provision of water and sewerage services, Ken Harvey, also does not have a service contract but he does recycling, waste management and renewable energy.
Information have a contract for services which is terminable upon 12 months regarding the Group, including events and its progress during the notice.
The Executive Directors, David Dupont and Chris Loughlin, year, events since the year-end and likely future developments is have service contracts which are due to expire when they reach contained in the Business review set out on pages 2 to 39 of this age 60 the unexpired term for David Dupont and Chris Loughlin Directors report.
is until 10June 2014 and 20 August 2012 respectively.
In respect of Colin Drummond, who has reached age 60, his contract now In addition the Business review contains a fair and balanced review continues subject to 12 months notice.
The other Executive of the business of the Group, including its position and prospects, Directors contracts are also expected to continue after they reach Key Performance Indicators and a description of the principal age 60.
Formal resolutions for the above Directors re-election risks and uncertainties facing the Group in accordance with the will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and Section biographies are set out on pages 44 and 45.
In addition in accordance with the ABI Corporate Social Responsibility Guidelines, statements are No Director has, or has had, a material interest, directly or included on any significant environmental, social and governance indirectly, at any time during the year under review in any contract ESG risks and the actions taken in mitigating these risks within significant to the Companys business.
A list of all the Directors the Business review on pages 28 and 29.
Further information on during the year is set out in the emoluments table on page ESG aspects of the Groups business are included in the Group 57.
Further details relating to the Directors and their service Sustainability report on pages 34 to 39.
The principal subsidiaries agreements or contracts for services are set out on pages 55 of the Company are listed in note 38 to the financial statements on and 57 and details of the Directors interests in shares of the page 108.
Company are given on pages 58 to 60.
Corporate governance and Directors responsibilities Directors insurance and indemnities statements The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provisions The Directors responsibilities statements, a report on the review contained in the Companys Articles and the Company has of, and a statement on, the Groups system of internal controls maintained throughout the year Directors and Ofcers liability and the disclosures required by Part 6 of Schedule 7 of the Large insurance for the benefit of the Company, the Directors and its and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports Ofcers.
The Company has entered into qualifying third party Regulations 2008 and FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rule indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in a form 7.2 are set out in the Companys Corporate governance and and scope which comply with the requirements of the Companies internal control report on pages 42, 43 and 46 to 51 of this Annual Act 2006 and which were in force throughout the year and remain Report which are hereby included within this Directors report in force.
Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors Financial results and dividend a So far as each of the Directors in ofce at the date of the signing Group profit on ordinary activities after taxation was 172.4million.
of the report is aware, there is no relevant audit information of The Directors recommend a final dividend of 18.3p per Ordinary which the Companys auditors are unaware: and share to be paid on 5 October 2012 to shareholders on the b Each of the Directors has taken all the steps each Director register on 10 August 2012, making a total dividend for the year ought to have taken individually as a director in order to make of 26.25p, the cost of which will be 95.9 million, leaving a credit themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to to reserves of 76.5 million.
The Business review on pages 24 to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that 27 analyses the Groups financial results in more detail and sets information.
out other financial information, including the Directors opinion on Financial instruments asset values on page 25.
Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of Directors the Group and the exposure of the Group to price, credit, liquidity In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate and cash ow risks are set out in the Business review on pages 26 Governance Code the Code all Directors are offering themselves and 27. up for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
The Employment policies and employee involvement Board continues to believe that each Director makes an The Group has a culture of continuous improvement through effective and valuable contribution to the Board, demonstrating investment in people at all levels within the Group.
The Group is continued commitment to his or her role.
The Non-executive committed to pursuing equality and diversity in all its employment Directors, Gerard Connell and Martin Angle, are considered to be activities including recruitment, training, career development and independent in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
Dinah promotion and ensuring there is no bias or discrimination in the Nichols, subject to her re-election at this years Annual General treatment of people.
In particular, applications for employment Meeting, will have served as a Non-executive Director for more are welcomed from persons with disabilities and special than nine years.
The Board has determined that Dinah remains arrangements and adjustments as necessary are made to ensure independent as she demonstrates independence of character and that applicants are treated fairly when attending for interview or for judgement in her conduct of matters with the Board.
The Non- 40 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group Governance Financial statements 2012 Annual General Meeting business In addition to routine business, resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to: t renew the existing authorities to issue a limited number of shares and to purchase up to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company t seek authority to make political donations under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, as amended.
It is not the Groups policy to make political donations.
This is a precautionary measure which is followed by many companies to ensure that there is no inadvertent breach of the law t re-elect Mr K G Harvey, Mr M D Angle, Mr G D Connell, Mr C I J H Drummond, Mr D J Dupont, Mr C Loughlin and Ms D A Nichols as Directors of the Company t seek authority to continue to call general meetings other than an annual general meeting on not less than 14 clear days notice Pursuant to the EU Shareholder Rights Directive shareholder authority is required to continue to call meetings on at least 14 clear days notice.
Such authority would only be exercised by the Directors in exceptional circumstances and if they considered that it was in the best interests of shareholders and the Company as a whole to do so.
Wherever possible the opportunity and the amount owed to its trade creditors at 31 March 2012, was is taken to retrain people who become disabled during their 16days.
employment in order to maintain their employment within the Purchase of own Ordinary shares Group.
The Group also has a Boardroom Diversity Policy and The Company has authority from shareholders to purchase up encourages gender diversity in particular.
Further details are set to 10% of its own Ordinary shares as renewed at the Annual out in the report of the Nomination Committee on page 49.
General Meeting in 2011 which was valid as at 31 March 2012 and Employees are consulted regularly about changes which remains currently valid.
Of the 4,309,567 shares held in Treasury at may affect them either through their trade union appointed 31 March 2011, 676,862 were subsequently re-issued under the representatives or by means of the elected Staff Council which Companys employee share schemes for proceeds of 1.9 million.
operates in South West Water for staff employees.
Major shareholdings These forums, together with regular meetings with particular Details of major shareholdings notied to the Company in groups of employees, are used to ensure that employees are accordance with the FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules 5 kept up to date with the operating and financial performance are set out on page 113 Shareholder Information.
Independent auditors The Group also uses a monthly information cascade process  LLP were appointed auditors until to provide employees with important and up to date information the conclusion of the twenty-third Annual General Meeting.
A about key events and to receive feedback from employees.
resolution for their re-appointment upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee of the Board will be proposed at the Annual Further information about employment matters relating to General Meeting.
the Group are set out on pages 17, 23, 37 and 38 of the Businessreview.
Appointed business South West Water Limited is required to publish additional The Group encourages share ownership amongst its employees financial information relating to the appointed business as water by operating an HM Revenue & Customs approved Sharesave and sewerage undertaker in accordance with the Instrument of Scheme and Share Incentive Plan.
At 31 March 2012 around oneAppointment from the Secretary of State for the Environment.
third of the Groups employees participated in these plans.
A copy of this information is available on the website Research and development southwestwater.
co. uk or upon application to the Group Company Research and development activities within the Group involving Secretary at Peninsula House, Rydon Lane, Exeter EX2 7HR.
water and waste treatment processes amounted to 0.2 million Annual General Meeting during the year 2010 11 0.2 million.
The twenty-third Annual General Meeting of the Company will Pennon Group donations be held at the Sandy Park Conference Centre, Sandy Park Way, During the year donations amounting to 73,992 2010 11 Exeter, Devon EX2 7NN on 26 July 2012 at 11.00am.
Further details are included on page 37 of of the resolutions are summarised above and set out in the the Group Sustainability report.
No political donations were made separate Notice of Annual General Meeting which is circulated 2010 11 nil.
to shareholders with this Annual Report or provided by electronic Tax status communication via the Companys website pennon-group.
co. uk The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the Information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. is also on the Companys website.
Payments to suppliers By Order of the Board It is the Groups payment policy for the year ending 31 March Ken Woodier 2013 to follow the Code of The Better Payment Practice Group Group General Counsel & Company Secretary on supplier payments.
Information about the Code can be 18 June 2012 obtained from the website payontime.
co. uk The Company will agree payment terms with individual suppliers in advance and abide by such terms.
The ratio, expressed in days, between the amount invoiced to the Company by its suppliers during 2011 12 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41
