GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance which it considers to be central to the effective management of the business and to maintaining the confidence ofinvestors.
The Group complies with the laws and endeavours to observe thecustoms and culture inthe countries inwhich it operates and does business.
TheGroup expects all Directors and employees to drive to achieve the highest standards and to act with respect and integrity.
TheBoard monitors and keep under review theCompanys corporate governance framework.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company confirms that throughout 2012 it complied with the relevant provisions setout in Section 1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code withthe exception of B.
1.2 of the Code which species that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
However as at 31 December 2012 and at the date of this report, the Company can confirm that itdoes now comply with this provision.
For the period between 1 January 2012 and 12 December 2012 the Company only had three Non-Executive Directors Peter Williams, PeterParmenter and Marc Brown, excluding the Non-Executive Chairman Paul Walker determined by the Board to be independent.
Jrg Mohaupt is not considered to be independent due to his affiliation with Premium TV Group, the majority shareholder in theCompany.
On12 December 2012 the Company appointed Gabby Logan as an additional Non-Executive Director.
The Board consider Gabby Logan tobeindependent.
This report, together with the Remuneration Committee Report onpages 60 to 64 provides details ofhow the Company has applied theprinciples and complies with the provisions oftheCode.
The Board The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the Company.
The Board provides leadership for the Group and concentrates its efforts onstrategy, performance, governance and internal control.
As at the date of this report, the Board has nine members: the Non-Executive Chairman Paul Walker, the joint Chief Executive Officers Simon Denyer and Oliver Slipper, the Chief Financial Officer David Surtees, four Independent Non-Executive Directors Peter Williams, Marc Brown, Gabby Logan and Peter Parmenter and one Non-Executive Director Jrg Mohaupt.
The biographical details of each of the Directors are set out on pages 44 to 45 and details of their membership of the Boards committees are set out below.
The Board has a formal schedule ofmatters reserve to it for decision andapprove which include, but are not limited to: the Groups business strategy: annual budget and operating plans: major capital expenditure and acquisitions: the systems of corporate governance, internal control and risk management: the approval of the interim and annual financial statements and interim management statements: and any interim dividend and the recommendation of any final dividend.
The Board held eight scheduled meetings during 2012.
The Groups strategy was regularly reviewed.
AllDirectors participate in discussions relating to the Groups strategy, financial and trading performance and risk management.
TheBoard considers it met sufficiently often to enable the Directors to discharge their duties effectively.
The table below gives details of Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings in 2012: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Paul Walker 8 8 2 2 1 1 Simon Denyer 8 8 Oliver Slipper 8 8 David Surtees 8 8 Peter Williams 8 8 3 3 2 2 1 1 Marc Brown 8 8 3 3 2 2 1 1 Jrg Mohaupt 8 8 2 Peter Parmenter 6 8 2 3 0 2 1 1 1 Gabby Logan 1 Gabby Logan was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 12 December 2012 and was appointed to each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on that date.
2 Peter Parmenter was unable to attend all board and commitees meetings due to work commitments 54 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE At the request of any Non-Executive Director, the Non-Executive Chairman willarrange meetings consisting of only the Non-Executive Directors to allow the opportunity for any concerns to be expressed.
During 2012, the Non-Executive Chairman maintained regular contact and met the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is chaired by Paul Walker.
TheNon-Executive Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and its effectiveness.
Simon Denyer andOliver Slipper are joint Chief Executive Officers and are jointly responsible for the execution of strategy and the day-to-day management ofthe Group.
The division of roles and responsibilities between the Non-Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive Officers are formally setout inwriting and agreed by the Board.
Board balance and independence Paul Walker, Peter Williams, Marc Brown, Peter Parmenter and Gabby Logan are, inthe opinion of the Board, independent of Management andfree from any business relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise oftheir independent judgement.
As set out above whilst the majority of the Board excluding the non-Executive Chairman did not comprise Independent Non-Executive Directors during the entirety of 2012, at theyear-end and at the date of this report, the majority of the Board comprised Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Directors consider that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience by virtue of the Directors varied backgrounds see biographical details on pages 44 and 45.
Board appointments Board nominations are recommended tothe Board by the Nomination Committee under its terms of reference.
All Directors are subject toelection by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and thereafter to re-election every year in line with the Companys Articles of Association and provision A.
Information and professional development On appointment, Independent Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction, including meetings with members of the Management team andbriengs on particular issues.
As an ongoing process, Directors are briefed and provided with information concerning major developments affecting their roles and responsibilities.
Inparticular, the Directors knowledge ofthe Groups worldwide operations isregularly updated by arranging presentations fromSenior Management throughout the Group.
The Chairman and Executive Directors consult with each Non Executive Director to ensure that they are all able to allocate sufficient time to the Group to discharge their responsibilities.
The Non-Executive Chairman works closely with the Company Secretary toensure that the Board is supplied inatimely manner with information inaform and of a quality appropriate toenable itto effectively discharge itsduties.
Where there are occasions when Directors are unable to attend ameeting they have the opportunity toreview meeting papers and submit comments to the Non-Executive Chairman.
Directors are also supplied with a monthly Chief Executive Officer report and a monthly financial report which provides the Board with information on operational and financial performance and the Groups business plans.
All Directors are able to consult with the Company Secretary.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary isa matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
Directors may obtain, in the furtherance of their duties, independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Groups expense.
In addition, all Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and all Senior Management.
Board performance evaluation The Board recognises that it is required to undertake a formal and rigorous review of its performance and that of its Committees each financial year.
The Board had intended to review the effectiveness of the Chairman, the Board and its various committees in the latter part of 2012.
However in light of i the Boards intention to fully comply with the Code and ensure a majority of its members were independent which is now the case and ii its desire to operate for a full financial year before performing this review, the Board has decided to conduct its first full review in 2013.
The results of this review will be presented in the Companys Annual Report for the year to 31 December 2013.
Committees The Board is supported by a number ofcommittees including the following principal committees: Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
All the Independent Non-Executive Directors are members of each of the principal committees of the Board.
The terms of reference of each of the principal committees are available on request by writing to the Company Secretary at the Companys registered address and are available on the Groups website: www.
The Committees, if they consider it necessary, can engage with third-party consultants and independent professional advisors and can call upon other resources of the Group to assist them in developing their respective roles.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises four Independent Non-Executive Directors: The table below gives details of Directors attendance at Audit Committee meetings in 2012 Audit Committee Peter Williams Chair 3 3 Marc Brown 3 3 Peter Parmenter 2 3 1 Gabby Logan 1 Gabby Logan was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 12 December 2012 and was appointed to each oftheAudit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on that date.
The main roles and responsibilities ofthe Audit Committee are set out inwritten terms of reference.
The Audit Committee is responsible for: reviewing financial statements and formal announcements relating to the Groups performance: reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and risk management systems: assessing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors: developing and implementing policies on the engagement of the external auditors for the supply of non-audit services: making recommendations for the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors and approving their remuneration and terms of engagement: and reviewing arrangements by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting and other matters.
The Board is satisfied, in accordance with the provisions of the Code, that at least one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience, given the nature of the senior management positions previously held by Peter Williams see biographical details on pages 44 to 45.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
The attendance record ofCommittee members is recorded in the table above.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Joint Chief Executive Officers, the ChiefFinancial Officer, the Chairman of the Board and the Groups external auditors regularly attend meetings.
The Audit Committee is responsible forreviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal control procedures and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for assessing whether the Group requires an internal audit function.
The Group does not currently have an internal audit function.
Given that most ofthe Groups financial functions are currently centralised, such a function isnot considered appropriate.
This will be reconsidered as the Group grows and decentralises its operations.
The Audit Committee was presented bythe Groups Management with a presentation of the Groups current internal control procedures and risk management systems and following due consideration the Audit Committee was satisfied that the current arrangements and the Groups internal controls and risk management systems were appropriate.
The Audit Committee considers that the Group has made good progress on risk during the year, resulting in better process, understanding and awareness combined with a greater engagement right across the business.
The debate onrisk, risk tolerance and risk appetite willcontinue to be a focus for the Board and the Committee during the next year.
During the year the Financial Reporting Councils Conduct Committee FRCCC requested some information and clarification relating to certain items in the Groups 2011 financial statements and following that the Directors concluded that certain items in the Groups 2011 consolidated statement of cash ows should be re-classied and a liability in respect of an acquisition of a non-controlling interest in an already controlled subsidiary should be recognised.
Details of these items are set out in note 1 to the Financial Statements.
The discussions with the FRCCC in respect of the Groups 2011 financial statements have now been concluded.
The Committee reviewed, and approved all of the Groups correspondence with the FRCCC.
56 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE In addition, the Committee reviewed theadequacy of the whistle-blowing arrangements in place to enable employees to raise, in confidence, any concerns they may have.
The Committee is satisfied that such arrangements remain appropriate.
Key to giving the Board confidence In the Groups approach to controls and risk is the effectiveness of the Groups external auditors.
The Audit Committee had intended to review their effectiveness during 2012 but decided to hold this review in early 2013 following the nalisation of the Groups 2012 audit being the first full financial year that the Group has operated as a public company.
The Audit Committee will judge them onthe quality of their audit findings, Managements response and stakeholder feedback.
The Audit Committee will also assess their independence by way of their challenge to Management.
The Audit Committee have considered their independence with reference to their audit and non-audit fees which for 2012 are set out in note 4 to the financial statements and have concluded they are independent.
The Committee recognises that the independence of the auditors is an essential part of the audit framework andthe assurance that it provides.
TheCommittee monitors the types of non-audit work that are undertaken by the external auditors to ensure that their objectivity and independence is not compromised.
Any significant proposed non-audit assignments require prior approval and the Committee receives a report at each meeting providing details of non-audit assignments carried out by the external auditors in addition to their normal work.
Audit partner rotation is also important toretain the objectivity of the process and the 2012 audit will be the final audit of Mark Henshaw after eight years although only two of those were post the Groups IPO.
In future the audit partner will rotate after five years.
In advance of that review the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that it propose to shareholders that Grant Thornton UK LLP be re-appointed as the Groups external auditors.
Accountability and audit The Board acknowledges that it should present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
In this context, reference should be made to the Directors Responsibilities Statement which includes a statement in compliance with the Code regarding the Groups status as a going concern, and to the Independent auditors report which includes a statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
The Board recognises that its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports and reports to regulators as well as information required to be presented by law.
Internal control The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and the Audit Committee reviews its effectiveness.
Sucha system isdesigned to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable andnot absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures, which have been established to provide internal control.
As part of the process that the Board has in place to review theeffectiveness of the internal control system, there are procedures designed tocapture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the case of those categorised bythe Board as significant, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
In accordance with the revised guidance for Directors on internal control the Revised Turnbull Guidance, the Board confirms that there isan ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
These include those relating to social, environmental and ethical matters.
This process was in place throughout 2012 and up to the date of approval of theAnnual Report and Accounts.
Theprocess will be regularly reviewed bythe Audit Committee which will report its findings for consideration by the Board and isinaccordance with the Revised Turnbull Guidance.
The key procedures operating within the Group were as follows: during the year the Audit Committee met to evaluate risk and consider the appropriateness of the Groups risk assessment systems and internal control policies: the Group consists of a number ofunits each with its own management structure which forms part of the overall management structure ofthe Group.
The senior executives of these units report to the Executive Directors on a monthly basis: the Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary and re-forecasting control, focused on monthly performance reporting which is at an appropriate detailed level.
A summary supported bycommentary and performance measures is presented to the Board each month.
Theperformance measures are subject to review to ensure that they provide relevant and reliable indications of business performance: the Group has established procedures for the delegation of authority: the Groups divisions operate within a framework of policies and procedures which are laid down in policy and procedure manuals and cover key issues such as authorisation levels: and Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued the Group has established policies and procedures designed to ensure the maintenance of accurate accounting records sufficient to enable thepreparation of financial statements, and consolidated financial statements, in accordance with the financial reporting frameworks applicable to the Group, the main feature of which is a structured system of review and approval by Management and the Board.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises five Independent Non-Executive Directors: The table below gives details of Directors attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings in 2012 Remuneration Committee Paul Walker 2 2 Peter Williams 2 2 Marc Brown Chair 2 2 Peter Parmenter 0 2 1 Gabby Logan 1 Gabby Logan was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 12 December 2012 and was appointed to each oftheAudit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on that date..
The Remuneration Committee isresponsible for: Considering and evaluating remuneration arrangements for senior managers and other key employees and making recommendations to the Board.
Its purpose is to support the strategic aims of the business and shareholder interest, by enabling the recruitment, motivation and retention of key employees while complying with the requirements of regulatory and governance bodies.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 60 to64.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises five Independent Non-Executive Directors: The table below gives details of Directors attendance at Nomination Committee meetings in 2012 Nomination Committee Paul Walker Chair 1 1 Peter Williams 1 1 Marc Brown 1 1 Peter Parmenter 1 1 1 Gabby Logan 1 Gabby Logan was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 12 December 2012 and was appointed to each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on that date..
The Nomination Committee isresponsible for: Reviewing the balance and composition of the Board and its committees and foridentifying and recommending appointments or renewal ofappointments to the Board.
These regular reviews ensure that the Group and the Board are able to draw from acomplementary balance ofskills and experience and there is in place an appropriate plan for orderly succession tothe Board.
The procedure for appointments issetoutin its terms ofreference.
The Nomination Committee made good progress in 2012, securing the appointment of the Groups new Non-Executive Director, Gabby Logan, following on from the appointment ofPeter Parmenter in December 2011.
The Committee spent time reviewing theexisting skill set on, and diversity ofthe Board specically in terms of background, experiences and gender and balancing this against the Groups long term strategies and plans.
The Committee spent a considerable amount of time considering potential candidates that might t the criteria and have secured, in Gabby and Peter, two excellent appointments to the Board.
Both directors have undertaken extensive induction programmes to ensure arounded understanding of the business and its ambitions.
The Committee also ensured that succession is a key agenda item for the board and have spent time discussing talent and succession for Senior Managers in the business.
During 2013 the Committee will continue to support succession plans and development oftheExecutive 58 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Director team, continue to review ongoing knowledge and training for all directors and continue toensure the Committee plans for theevolution ofNon-Executive Directors overthe medium term to maintain the appropriate mix ofskills.
During 2013 the Nomination Committee intends to consider and review the Groups succession planning arrangements and the Boards Performance Evaluation.
The Nomination Committee met once during 2012.
The table above gives details of Directors attendance at that meeting.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered address.
Corporate Responsibility Details of the Groups approach to Corporate Responsibility are set out onpages 51 to 52, under the headings Employment policies, Employee Involvement and Environmental policy.
Relations with shareholders The Board recognises the importance ofmaintaining good communication with its shareholders and does this through the Annual Report, preliminary and interim announcements, interim management statements and the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, one of the Joint Chief Executive Officers and the Chief Financial Officer make presentations to institutional shareholders and analysts immediately following the release of the preliminary and interim results.
These presentations are made available on the Companys website: www.
The Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with major shareholders to discuss issues of importance to them, should a meeting berequested.
Annual General Meeting Voting at the 2012 Annual General Meeting will be by way of poll.
The results of the voting at the Annual General Meeting will be announced anddetails of the votes will be available to view on the Companys website www.
com as soon as possible after the meeting.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59
