0WFSWJFX 4USBUFHZ, 1 T 1FSGPSNBODF PWFSOBODF 'JOBODJBMT 0UIFS JOGPSNBUJPO Chairmans Corporate Governance Introduction JDIPMBT 8SJHMFZ $IBJSNBO In seeking a non-executive Director to replace Neil Davidson, the Nomination Committee was mindful of the balance ofskills on the Board, our diversity policy and the The Board supports the recommendations of the Davies Report.
After an extensive higheststandards in search, I am delighted to welcome Marion Sears to the Board.
She has extensive experience in retail and finance and will CorporateGovernance bring a valuable new perspective to the Board.
The changes we have implemented will I believe ensure The Boards corporate governance priority during the last thatthe Board remains effective.
We have exceptional year has been succession planning for both executive and housebuilding experience and knowledge with our executive non-executive Directors.
Directors and a strong independent body of non-executive Our Chief Executive Mike Farley recently informed the Directors who bring diverse skills and experience to the Board of his intention to retire at the forthcoming Annual Board.
Together the Directors have the skills and experience General Meeting as he will reach his normal retirement date to deliver the Groups strategy to build a larger, stronger during this year.
business whilst returning cash to shareholders.
I am particularly pleased that Persimmon has again been able During 2012 the Board conducted its first external evaluation to promote from within, continuing its long term strategy of with the assistance of Coefficient part of the Equiniti Group nurturing and promoting talent from within the Company.
ofcompanies in accordance with Code provision B.
Coefficients evaluation was that the Company was well run We were pleased to announce earlier this year that Jeff and that the current Board arrangements generally worked Fairburn, currently Group Managing Director and North well and were fit for purpose.
A few minor recommendations Division Chief Executive will succeed Mike asGroup Chief were made by Coefficient to improve processes and Executive with effect from 18 April 2013.
Jeffhas been with optimisearrangements which the Board have or are in Persimmon since 1989 and has extensive housebuilding thecourse of implementing.
Iam confident that under Jeffs leadership the Company will go from strength to strength.
We recognise that maintaining good corporate governance sets the standards and values for the Group as a whole.
We were also pleased to report that Nigel Greenaway, Iamagain pleased to confirm that the Company has SouthDivision Chief Executive was promoted to the Board complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 on 8 January 2013.
Nigel has been with the Group since 1986 throughout 2012. and has extensive experience in all areas of housebuilding.
The Board will be giving consideration to the implementation Neil Davidson will have completed nine years service as a of the new Code provisions introduced inSeptember 2012 non-executive Director and will not be seeking re-election and will report on its progress next year.
I would like to place on record theBoards thanks for Neils excellent contribution to the Company over the very challenging period of his directorship, JDIPMBT 8SJHMFZ which has included our acquisition of Westbury plc as well as $IBJSNBO the housing recession in 2008.
