Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement The Board of Directors presents its Directors Report Together the balance of skills, experience and personal incorporating the Corporate Governance Statement for characteristics of the non-executive Directors result in a theyear ended 31 December 2012. diversity of views and opinions to support the executive Directors and provide excellent advice and judgement on the formation and implementation of the Groups strategy.
The 5IF #PBSE Chairman encourages open and honest debate in the spirit of $PNQPTJUJPO constructive challenge, which results in high quality decision making in all areas of strategy, performance, responsibility The Board comprises a non-executive Chairman, four and accountability.
executive Directors and five non-executive Directors.
Nicholas Wrigley became Chairman on 21 April 2011.
In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate MrWrigley remains an Executive Vice Chairman of Governance Code 2010 the Code there is a clear written Rothschild London.
division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive, which has been approved by the Board.
The executive Directors have extensive experience in the housebuilding industry.
Mike Farley has been with the, FZ BDUJPOT PG UIF #PBSE Group for 30 years and has served as Chief Executive since The Board approved the Companys Capital Return Plan April 2006.
Mike Farley has announced that he will be andcurrent strategy in February 2012.
Full details of the retiring at the AGM on 18 April 2013.
Jeff Fairburn has been current strategy are set out in the Business Review on appointed by the Board to succeed Mike Farley as Chief pages2to 24.
Jeff Fairburn joined the Group in 1989 and was appointed to the Board in June 2009, having held a number The Board met on eight occasions in 2012, including the of positions within the business.
Mike Killoran joined the annual strategy meeting.
There was full attendance by all Group in 1996 and has been Finance Director for the last Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the year, 13years.
Nigel Greenaway has been with the Group since except that Messrs Pennycook, Davie and Preston were each 1986 and was appointed to the Board on 8 January 2013. unable to attend one Board meeting.
Mr Preston was also unable to attend one Remuneration Committee meeting The non-executive Directors have complementary skill sets, andone Audit Committee meeting.
bringing substantial and diverse experience to the Board.
Nicholas Wrigley and Jonathan Davie have considerable The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for experience of the financial markets and capital raising: itsconsideration and decisions.
The schedule includes the Richard Pennycook has extensive retail experience gained approval of the Groups strategy, major investments, annual from his role as Finance Director of Wm Morrison and half year results, interim management statements and Supermarkets plc: Neil Davidson has extensive experience trading updates, review of performance, dividend policy, inthe regulatory environment, particularly with regard to monitoring risk and ensuring adequate financial controls competition law: Mark Preston has wide ranging experience areavailable.
The schedule is reviewed annually.
The in retail, commercial and residential property as Chief implementation of the Boards strategy and policies are Executive of Grosvenor Group Limited.
Marion Sears delegated to executive Directors and senior management wasappointed to the Board on the 8 January 2013 as a within the Group.
non-executive Director and has significant experience #PBSE EJWFSTJUZ BOE JOEFQFOEFODF inretail and banking.
The Company recognises that a diverse workforce can bring During 2012 David Thompson, Senior Independent Director benefits to the Company and by the same measure, the having served on the Board for 12 years retired at the AGM Directors recognise the value diversity, including gender can on 19 April 2012.
Richard Pennycook succeeded David bring to the Board.
When considering the nomination and Thompson as the Senior Independent Director.
As announced appointment of new Directors the Nomination Committee on 8 January 2013, Neil Davidson, having served nine years evaluates candidates skills, knowledge and experience in on the Board will retire and will not be standing for order that they nominate new Directors on the basis of merit re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Further information and overall suitability.
"Before any appointment is finalised, isprovided in the Directors Biographies on pages 26 and 27. the Board takes into account the balance of skills, knowledge, 1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS 0WFSWJFX 4USBUFHZ, 1 T 1FSGPSNBODF PWFSOBODF 'JOBODJBMT 0UIFS JOGPSNBUJPO %JSFDUPST 3FQPSU BOE $PSQPSBUF PWFSOBODF 4UBUFNFOU DPOUJOVFE experience and diversity on the Board."
Subject to the above Coefficients report confirmed that the current Board principle, the Directors intend to work towards a meaningful arrangements worked well and were fit for purpose.
percentage of women on the Board in line with the Anumber of minor recommendations were made to recommendation of Lord Davies Report, taking into improvegovernance and communications between the accountthe size of the Board.
Board and senior management within the Group.
Anumberof these recommendations to improve processes During the course of 2012 the Nomination Committee and optimise arrangements have already been implemented recommended to the Board and the Board approved and the remainder will be put in place during 2013. theappointment of Marion Sears as a non-executive Director.
Marion was appointed to the Board on In addition to the Board evaluation, the Chairman 8January2013 andbrings extensive experience in retail undertakes an annual verbal evaluation of the executive andbanking, complementing the existing skills of the Directors performance.
The non-executive Directors non-executive Directors.
undertake a verbal annual performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive The Board considers the non-executive Directors Richard Directors.
The Chairman undertakes an annual verbal Pennycook, Neil Davidson, Jonathan Davie, Mark Preston evaluation of the non-executive Directors.
and Marion Sears to be independent.
The Company has procedures in place to ensure that Directors disclose any The Chairman has discussed with all Directors their situation in which they may have an interest, direct or requirements for professional development and training indirect which conflicts or may possibly conflict with the andwhere appropriate this has been provided to Directors.
No authority to authorise a conflict All Directors have access to the advice and services of the of interest has been required during 2012.
Group Company Secretary and may also seek independent professional advice and training at the Companys expense, 3F FMFDUJPO PG %JSFDUPST ifso required to carry out their duties.
In accordance with Code provision B.
7.1 all Directors will The Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM, except for Nomination Committee all undertake a written selfMike Farley and Neil Davidson who are retiring.
The Boards evaluation of their performance each year and as a result reasons for supporting the re-election of the Chairman ofsuch evaluations a number of procedural changes have Nicholas Wrigley and the non-executive Directors Richard been made to the Committees agendas and procedures to Pennycook, Jonathan Davie and Mark Preston are that they improve the flow of information to Directors.
For example, have individually produced excellent performance in their Group Head Office Senior Management in charge of major duties and have shown a high level of commitment to their support functions, such as IT, have made presentations to roles.
Marion Sears having recently been appointed to the theAudit Committee in the past year.
Board is also standing for election by shareholders in accordance with Article 114 of the Companys Articles PNJOBUJPO $PNNJUUFF ofAssociation.
TheBoard considers that Marion Sears knowledge and experience will make her a valuable addition The current members of the Nomination Committee are to the Board.
Nicholas Wrigley Chairman, Richard Pennycook, NeilDavidson and Jonathan Davie who was appointed on 1FSGPSNBODF FWBMVBUJPO BOE QSPGFTTJPOBM 20 February 2013.
David Thompson wasamember of the EFWFMPQNFOU Committee until his retirement on 19April 2012.
Neil Davidson will retire from the Committee on 18April 2013.
In 2012 the Board undertook an externally assisted board The Committee met twice during 2012 toreview and evaluation in accordance with Code provision B.
The consider thecomposition of the Board, toconsider Board Company appointed Coefficient, part of the Equiniti Group succession planning and to make recommendations for the of companies to assist in the Board evaluation.
Coefficient appointment of a new non-executive Director.
There was does not have any other connection with the Company.
fullattendance byDirectors at the Committee meetings.
Coefficient undertook detailed discussions with the In accordance with the Committees long term succession Directors, the Company Secretary and the Divisional plan it recommended to the Board Jeff Fairburns ChiefExecutives.
They also reviewed all corporate appointment to succeed Mike Farley as Chief Executive governance procedures together with the Board and onthe latters retirement, and Nigel Greenaways Committee documentation and minutes of meetings promotionto the Board.
Both recommendations were heldinthe prior year.
"1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS %JSFDUPST 3FQPSU BOE $PSQPSBUF PWFSOBODF 4UBUFNFOU DPOUJOVFE The Committee did not use a recruitment agency or open ""VEJU $PNNJUUFF advertising in seeking a new non-executive Director, as it did The current members of the Audit Committee are Richard not consider that this would have assisted in the recruitment Pennycook Chairman, Jonathan Davie and Mark Preston, of a high calibre non-executive Director with the right skills the latter being appointed on 27 February 2012."
David to complement the Board.
The Committee recommended Thompson was a member of the Committee until 27 Marion Sears to the Board and she was subsequently February 2012.
Richard Pennycook, as Chairman of the appointed with effect from 8 January 2013.
Ms Sears has Committee has recent relevant financial experience as undertaken a comprehensive induction with the Company Finance Director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc.
and has had detailed discussions with the Chairman, Group Jonathan Davie and Mark Preston also have recent relevant Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Chairman of the financial experience in their current roles respectively as Audit Committee and the Group Company Secretary.
Chairman of IG Partners and Chief Executive of Grosvenor MsSears is undertaking a programme of visits to regional Group Limited.
operating businesses and their new housing sites during the course of this year.
The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the integrity of the Groups financial reporting process: monitor the effectiveness of the Groups internal control, Group Risk 3FNVOFSBUJPO $PNNJUUFF function and Group Risk management systems: review The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting reports from the Risk Committee and the Group Risk theremuneration of the Chairman and executive Directors.
Manager: monitor the statutory audit of the annual The current members of the Remuneration Committee consolidated accounts: review and monitor the independence areJonathan Davie Chairman, Nicholas Wrigley, Neil of the Groups external auditors: the provision of additional Davidson, Mark Preston and Marion Sears.
Neil Davidson services to the Group by the Auditor and oversee the Groups will retire asamember of the Committee on 18 April 2013. relationship with them.
David Thompson served as a member of the Committee The Committee met on four occasions during 2012 and all during theyear until his retirement from the Committee members were in attendance at each meeting, save that on27February 2012.
MrPreston did not attend one meeting.
The Committee The Committees key action during the course of the year regularly meets the auditors without the presence of the was the review of long term incentive arrangements for Companys management.
The Committees Chairman also executive Directors and senior managers, resulting in the meets the Group Risk Manager without the Companys introduction of the Persimmon Plc 2012 Long Term management being present, at least once each year.
Extensive consultation was The key actions of the Committee during the year have been: carried out with shareholders prior to the 2012 LTIP being approved by shareholders at the General Meeting on r assessment of the release of net realisable value provisions 17October 2012.
The 2012 LTIP is designed to ensure that relating to the Groups landbank: executive Directors and the Groups senior managements r the review of the Groups current tax status, IT systems remuneration is aligned to the Companys strategic objectives upgrade and internal audit reports: and the Capital Return Plan.
r oversight of the Groups health and safety strategy In addition the Committee considered in detail executive andpolicies: Directors remuneration during 2012 and awards under the annual bonus plan.
Details of the remuneration policy and r the publication of lead indicator reports bi-monthly package foreach Director serving during 2012 are set out in tomonitor the significant risks faced by the Group: the Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 45. r the review of the Group Risk Register: The Committee met five times during 2012 to discuss, r review of the half year and annual results.
consider and approve both the 2012 LTIP and the remuneration for executive Directors and the Chairman.
During 2012 the Committee reviewed and updated the TheCommittee members all attended each meeting, save Group Risk Register which has been approved by the Board.
that Mr Preston was unable to attend one meeting.
The Groups principal risks are set out on page 21.
"1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS 0WFSWJFX 4USBUFHZ, 1 T 1FSGPSNBODF PWFSOBODF 'JOBODJBMT 0UIFS JOGPSNBUJPO %JSFDUPST 3FQPSU BOE $PSQPSBUF PWFSOBODF 4UBUFNFOU DPOUJOVFE The Committee formulates and oversees the Companys The Risk Committee has the delegated task of overseeing policy on monitoring external auditor objectivity and theBoards responsibilities with regard to risk and internal independence in relation to non-audit services."
Specifically this includes determining appropriate isexcluded from undertaking a range of work on behalf of control procedures and the review of effectiveness of internal the Company to ensure that the nature of non-audit services control.
The members of the Risk Committee during 2012 performed or fee income relative to the audit fees does not were Mike Farley, Mike Killoran, Jeff Fairburn, David compromise or is not seen to compromise the auditors Thornton and Nigel Greenaway.
The Risk Committee is independence, objectivity or integrity.
The auditor is supported by the Group Risk Manager.
The Risk Committee therefore not allowed to carry out appraisal or valuation reports to the Audit Committee which oversees the Risk services, management functions and litigation support, Committees activities.
actuarial services, legal, accounting or remuneration services The Company has complied with the Code provisions on on behalf of the Company.
From time to time non-audit internal control, having continued to operate procedures services are put out to tender to a number of suitable firms.
necessary to implement the guidance issued by The The Committee has reviewed and is satisfied with the TurnbullCommittee Report revised October 2005 performance of KPMG Audit plc and therefore recommends throughout the year.
Details of the audit fee and The Audit Committee reviews the internal control and risk fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc for non-audit services are on management systems in relation to the financial reporting page 62.
The increase in non-audit fees paid to the auditor process and in relation to the process of preparing during the year was approved by the Committee.
considered the auditor was best placed to provide the required advice in this instance.
Senior management from the Finance Department monitor the Groups financial management and reporting systems The Group has had a whistle-blowing procedure in place for and continually assess the integrity and effectiveness of the anumber of years.
The whistle-blowing telephone hotline Groups accounting procedures.
Senior management from isprominently advertised on Group notice boards and is the Finance and Company Secretarial Departments review publicised in the Staff Handbook, which was reissued to all financial reports, interim management statements and staff during 2012.
All employees may raise concerns about trading updates, with appropriate consultation with the malpractice or improper or potentially illegal behaviour in Groups auditor, ensuring that such reports and statements confidence without the concern of victimisation or are accurate and complete and comply with all relevant disciplinary action.
Each operating business and group function is required to report to the Group to ensure 5FSNT PG 3FGFSFODF that all financial reporting is accurate and that all matters The Terms of Reference of the Audit, Remuneration and which may be material to the Group as a whole have been Nomination Committees are available on the Companys reported to the Board.
Senior management reports its website www.
com or from findings to the Audit Committee and through that theGroup Company Secretary at the Companys Committee to the Board.
The Group Risk Department has facilitated an update to theCorporate Risk Register during the year to reflect the 3JTL $PNNJUUFF BOE JOUFSOBM DPOUSPM changing risk profile facing the Group.
The results of this Effective risk management is critical to the achievement process have been reported to the Risk Committee and ofour objectives and the long term sustainable growth of havebeen used to drive a risk focused programme of work ourbusiness.
The Board has overall responsibility for the designed to improve business processes and increase internal Companys system of internal control and for the review of control effectiveness.
The updated Group Risk Register itseffectiveness.
It is the role of management to implement hasbeen approved by both Risk and Audit Committees.
the Boards policies on risk control through the design Theprincipal risks have not changed.
andoperation of appropriate internal control systems.
Allemployees have some responsibility for internal control aspart of their responsibility for achieving objectives.
"1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS %JSFDUPST 3FQPSU BOE $PSQPSBUF PWFSOBODF 4UBUFNFOU DPOUJOVFE The Risk Committee met six times during 2012, ensuring 3FMBUJPOT XJUI TIBSFIPMEFST there has been an ongoing process for the identification, The Directors recognise that it is important to maintain good evaluation and management of the significant risks that relations with the Companys shareholders as they arefaced by the Company."
The processes that the Risk increasingly provide perspective on governance matters, Committee has applied in 2012 in reviewing the effectiveness aswell as strategy and financial results.
Mike Farley, of the system of internal control include the following: JeffFairburn and Mike Killoran have responsibility for r review of reports produced by the Group Risk Department maintaining appropriate communications with institutional on internal control and management of risk: investors and analysts, advised by the Groups joint brokers Merrill Lynch and Citigroup together with financial PR r reviewing reports from the Corporate Responsibility consultants Citigate Dewe Rogerson.
Committee a sub-committee of the Risk Committee withparticular reference to reputational, environmental, The Chairman and Senior Independent Director maintain sustainability and social risks facing the Group: contact with major shareholders.
During 2012 the Chairman and Jonathan Davie Chairman of the Remuneration r review of representations on risk and control from all Committee undertook extensive consultation with major managing directors of operating businesses following shareholders on the structure and implementation of the individual reviews of internal control within their new2012 LTIP which was designed to align the executive operating businesses: Directors and senior management objectives with the r review of representations on risk and control from Companys new strategy and Capital Return Plan.
The bothGroup and divisional management.
Company also monitors the constituents of its share register Members of the Risk Committee completed the following to ensure that its investor relations communications are tasks which are essential parts of the Groups risk control appropriately targeted at its shareholder base.
The Board is framework: provided with reports and feedback from major shareholders and Directors presentations and meetings with both r maintaining continuous detailed involvement in shareholders and analysts.
All Directors attend the monitoring and controlling work in progress and Companys AGM and are available to answer questions controlsover land acquisition assessment: atthemeeting or privately.
r regular site visits and discussion with site based personnel: The Company issues regular trading and interim r ongoing review of Group performance in comparison management statements to the London Stock Exchange tooperational forecast and financial budgets: aswell as the publication of annual and half year financial results.
The Company provides shareholders with access to r involvement in each operating business board discussions, detailed presentations of results at its analysts presentations, particularly operational board meetings where all aspects a recording of which can be viewed on the Companys of operation and performance were analysed.
website for a period of one year.
Upon completion of these processes the Risk Committee formally considers the annual review of the effectiveness of 5IF 6, $PSQPSBUF PWFSOBODF $PEF the Groups system of internal control.
This review covers allmaterial controls including financial, operational and The Company complied with the Code throughout 2012 and compliance controls, as well as the Groups risk management continues to review its governance procedures to maintain system.
The review for 2012 has been completed and proper control and accountability.
The Code is available from approved by both the Risk and Audit Committees.
A detailed the Financial Reporting Council, telephone 0207 492 2300 or Group Risk Department programme of work for 2013 has online at www.
uk been approved by both the Risk and Audit Committees.
The Companys system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, in order to achieve business objectives.
However, the system does not provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
"1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS 0WFSWJFX 4USBUFHZ, 1 T 1FSGPSNBODF PWFSOBODF 'JOBODJBMT 0UIFS JOGPSNBUJPO %JSFDUPST 3FQPSU BOE $PSQPSBUF PWFSOBODF 4UBUFNFOU DPOUJOVFE PJOH DPODFSO 0UIFS %JTDMPTVSFT After completing a full review, the Directors have a 1SJODJQBM BDUJWJUJFT reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate Persimmon Plc the Company is the holding company resources to fund its operations for the foreseeable future."
ofthe Persimmon Group of companies the Group and is Forthis reason they continue to adopt the going concern apublic company, listed in the UK and traded on the London basis in preparing the accounts.
Further details are provided in note 2 to the financial Theprincipal activity of the Group is housebuilding, which statements.
iscarried out within the United Kingdom and is unchanged 4JHOJDBOU TIBSFIPMEJOHT from last year.
The Groups main trading companies are Persimmon Homes Limited and Charles Church As at 31 December 2012 and as at the date of this report the Developments Limited.
The Group trades under the brand Company had been notified under the Financial Service names of Persimmon Homes, Charles Church, Westbury Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5 of the Partnerships, Hillreed Homes and Space4.
following interests of the voting rights of the Company: The subsidiary undertakings which principally affect the VNCFS PG 1FSDFOUBHF PG UPUBM BNF WPUJOH SJHIUT WPUJOH SJHIUT BUVSF PG IPMEJOH profits and assets of the Group are listed in note 32 to the financial statements.
"""MMJBO[ 4& %JSFDU OEJSFDU #VTJOFTT SFWJFX ""NFSJQSJTF %JSFDU 'JOBODJBM OD OEJSFDU Pages 2 to 24 of this Annual Report form the Business BOE Review section of this Directors Report in accordance with TVCTJEJBSJFT the requirements of the Companies Act 2006."
"This Business ""9"" 4"" %JSFDU Review contains a review of the development and OEJSFDU performance of the Groups business during the year and 5FNQMFUPO OEJSFDU theposition at the end of the year with analysis using 'PSFJHO 'VOE KeyPerformance Indicators."
"The Business Review is ""CFSEFFO OEJSFDU themanagement report for the purpose of DTR 4.1."
BOBHFNFOU T A description of the Groups future prospects, research and TVCTJEJBSJFT development, the principal risks and uncertainties facing #MBDL3PDL OD OEJSFDU thebusiness and details of the Groups use of financial instruments are also contained within the Business Review.
%JSFDUPST BOE %JSFDUPST JOUFSFTUT Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group and associated risk exposure are given The current Directors of the Company and their biographical in note 22 to the financial statements.
details are shown on pages 26 and 27.
David Thompson also served as a non-executive Director until his retirement on 3FTVMUT BOE SFUVSO PG DBTI 19April 2012.
None of the Directors have any contracts of The Groups revenue for 2012 was 1,721.4m and its significance with the Company.
Detailsof the executive consolidated profit before taxation was 221.8m.
Directors service contracts are givenin the Remuneration Report on page 42.
In accordance with the previously announced Capital Return Plan, it is proposed to return 75p in cash per ordinary share The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors on 28 June 2013 to shareholders on the register at 6.00 pm on and their connected persons in the shares of the Company 19April 2013.
No interim dividend was paid during the year at31 December 2012 and as at the date of this report are and no final dividend will be paid in addition to the 75p disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 45.
The total return for the year will be 75p per ofthe interests of the executive Directors in share options share 2011: dividend of 10p per share.
As set out in the and awards of shares can be found on page 44 within the Chairmans Statement the Directors propose to effect the sameReport.
return of cash through an issue of Bshares and or C shares.
This is intended to give shareholders the opportunity wherever possible to choose whether to receive the cash as a return of capital or as dividend income.
Full details of the B C share proposal willbe sent to shareholders on 18 March 2013.
"1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS %JSFDUPST 3FQPSU BOE $PSQPSBUF PWFSOBODF 4UBUFNFOU DPOUJOVFE ""QQPJOUNFOU BOE SFQMBDFNFOU PG %JSFDUPST 4IBSF DBQJUBM Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 15 The Company has one class of share, being ordinary shares innumber."
Directors may be appointed by the Company with a nominal value of 10p each, which carry no right to byordinary resolution or by the Board of Directors.
During 2012 291,717 ordinary shares were ADirector appointed by the Board of Directors holds issued with a nominal value of 29,171.70 to employees officeuntil the next following Annual General Meeting exercising share options for a cash consideration of 624,268.
AGM and is then eligible for election by the shareholders.
At 22 February 2013 the issued share capital ofthe Company The Company may by special resolution remove any Director was 302,916,147 ordinary shares with a nominal value of before the expiration of his term of office.
Further details are provided in note 24 to the financial statements.
At each AGM at least one-third of the Directors shall retire from office and shall be eligible for reappointment.
In any Shares may be issued with such preferred, deferred or other event each Director shall retire from office and shall be rights or restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, return eligible for reappointment at the AGM held in the third year ofcapital, or voting or otherwise, as the Company may from following his last reappointment.
In accordance with the time to time by ordinary resolution determine or failing Companys Articles of Association Articles and the Code such determination as the Directors may decide, subject anon-executive Director who has been in office for more tothe provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and other than nine years consecutively shall retire at each AGM and shareholders rights.
There are no securities carrying shall be eligible for reappointment.
In accordance with specialrights with regard to control of the Company.
7.1 the Board has determined that all The Directors may allot, grant options over, or otherwise Directors will in any event be subject to annual re-election dispose of shares in the Company to such persons including byshareholders.
the Directors themselves at such times and on such terms The office of Director shall be vacated if the Director resigns asthe Directors may think proper, subject to the Articles, the by notice in writing to the Company: or offers in writing to Companies Act 2006 and shareholders rights.
At the AGM resign and the Directors resolve to accept such offer: or a on 19 April 2012, shareholders gave Directors authority to bankruptcy order or interim order is made against the issue up to one-third of the issued share capital excluding Director or the Director makes any arrangement or shares held in Treasury at that date, being an aggregate composition with his creditors generally: the Director is, nominal amount of 10,068,876 and to disapply pre-emption ormay be, suffering from mental disorder: is absent from rights onthe issue of shares up to 5% of the issued share meetings of Directors for six successive months without capital, being an aggregate nominal amount of 1,512,957. permission of the Directors: becomes prohibited by law from Theseauthorities will expire at the conclusion of the AGM acting as a Director: or is removed from office by notice in on18April 2013.
Resolutions to renew these authorities writing served upon him by all co-Directors.
willbeput to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Inaddition, shareholders will be asked to approve the return 1PXFST PG UIF %JSFDUPST of cash through a B and or C share structure at a General Meeting to be held immediately following the AGM.
The business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors who may exercise all the powers of the Company, 7PUFT PG NFNCFST subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by the Company in general meetings.
In All issued shares in the Company are fully paid and there particular the Directors may exercise all the powers of the arecurrently no restrictions on voting rights.
Votes may Company to borrow money, issue and buy back shares with beexercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate the authority of shareholders, appoint and remove Directors members by a corporate representative.
The deadline for and recommend and declare dividends.
delivering either written or electronic proxy forms is not lessthan 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
$BQJUBM TUSVDUVSF To attend and vote at a meeting a shareholder must be entered on the Register of Members at a time that is not The following description summarises certain provisions morethan 48 hours before the time of the meeting ofthe Articles adopted by special resolution passed on calculatedusing working days only.
This is only a summary and the relevant provisions of the Companies Act On a vote on a show of hands each member being an 2006 and Articles should be consulted if further information individual present in person or a duly authorised is required.
A copy of the Articles may be obtained by writing representative of a corporation has one vote.
Each proxy to the Group Company Secretary at the registered office.
present in person who has been appointed by one member entitled to vote on a resolution has one vote.
If a proxy has Amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made been appointed by more than one member and has been by way of special resolution in accordance with the given the same voting instructions by those members, provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
"1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS 0WFSWJFX 4USBUFHZ, 1 T 1FSGPSNBODF PWFSOBODF 'JOBODJBMT 0UIFS JOGPSNBUJPO %JSFDUPST 3FQPSU BOE $PSQPSBUF PWFSOBODF 4UBUFNFOU DPOUJOVFE theproxy has one vote."
If a proxy has been appointed by Mergers.
Change of control is deemed to occur if at any time more than one member and has been given conflicting any person, or group of persons acting in concert, acquires instructions, or instructions to vote for or against by one control of the Company.
member and discretion by another, the proxy has one vote The Company does not have agreements with any employee forand one vote against a resolution.
On a vote on a poll, including Directors that would provide compensation for each member present in person or by proxy or by a duly loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover, except authorised representative has one vote for each share held that provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause bythe member.
options and awards granted to employees under such Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 31 schemes to vest on a takeover.
Details of compensation ofthefinancial statements.
The Trustee of the Persimmon payable to Directors if their employment is terminated in Employee Benefit Trust may vote or abstain on shareholder breach of contract are provided in the Remuneration Report resolutions as it sees fit.
%JWJEFOET BOE EJTUSJCVUJPOT &TTFOUJBM DPOUSBDUT PS BSSBOHFNFOUT The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends The Company is required to disclose any contractual or other not exceeding the amount recommended by the Directors, arrangements which it considers are essential to its business.
The Directors may pay interim dividends The Group has a wide range of suppliers for the production and any fixed rate dividend whenever the financial position ofnew homes.
Whilst the loss of or disruption to certain of of the Company, in the opinion of the Directors, justifies these arrangements could temporarily affect the Groups itspayment.
business, none are considered to be essential.
The Group isnot dependent upon particular customers for the sale All dividends and interest shall be paid subject to any lien ofitsproducts as a significant majority of its sales are to ofthe Company to those members whose names are on the privateindividuals.
Register of Members on the record date, notwithstanding any subsequent transfer or transmission of shares.
4VQQMJFS QBZNFOU QPMJDZ 5SBOTGFS PG TIBSFT It is the Groups policy to agree payment terms with its trade creditors and other suppliers on an individual contract basis There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the at the time the goods and services are ordered rather than Company.
Any member may transfer their shares in writing following a standard code.
The policy is to ensure that in any usual or common form or in any other form suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and acceptable to the Directors and permitted by the Companies toabide by the agreed terms once satisfied that the goods Act 2006 and the UK Listing Authority.
The Company is not orservices have been provided in accordance with the aware of any agreements between shareholders that may contractterms and conditions.
The Companys average result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or that may creditor payment period at 31 December 2012 was 29 days result in restrictions on voting rights.
2VBMJGZJOH UIJSE QBSUZ JOEFNOJUZ QSPWJTJPOT BOE &NQMPZFF JOWPMWFNFOU RVBMJGZJOH QFOTJPO TDIFNF JOEFNOJUZ QSPWJTJPOT The Group places considerable value on the involvement The Company has not issued any qualifying third-party ofits employees and has continued to keep them informed indemnity provision or any qualifying pension scheme on matters affecting them as employees and on the various indemnity provision.
financial and economic factors affecting the performance ofthe Group.
The Group regularly updates its employment 4JHOJDBOU BHSFFNFOUT policies and employees have been issued with a revised Staff One significant agreement contains provisions entitling the Handbook to update them with information relevant to their counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the employment.
Each of the Groups operating businesses event of a change of control of the Company.
maintains employee relations and consults employees as appropriate.
Internal Group magazines are published twice a Under the 300m credit facility dated 1 April 2011 disclosed year and distributed to allemployees to ensure that they are in note 22 of the financial statements all amounts become kept well informed ofthe Groups operations.
In addition, due and payable under the terms of the facility if any person information concerningthe financial performance of the or group of persons acting in concert gains control of the Group is senttoeach operating business for circulation.
Further information can be found inour Sustainability Control has the same meaning as section 450 of the Report atwww.
"com Corporation Tax Act 2010 and acting in concert has the meaning given to it in the City Code on Takeovers and 1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS %JSFDUPST 3FQPSU BOE $PSQPSBUF PWFSOBODF 4UBUFNFOU DPOUJOVFE The Company makes various benefit schemes available At 1 January 2012, the Company held 402,026 shares in toemployees, including a Savings-Related Share Option treasury 0.13% of the issued ordinary share capital at that Scheme which encourages the awareness and involvement date excluding treasury shares which had previously been ofemployees inthe Groups performance."
All permanent purchased under authorities granted by shareholders.
employees areencouraged to participate, subject to having During2012 all of these shares representing 0.13% of the six months service at the date of grant of options.
issued ordinary share capital at 31 December 2012 with a nominal value of 40,202.60 were transferred to employees &RVBM PQQPSUVOJUJFT tosatisfy the exercise of share options or awards under the Groups various share schemes, for a total cash consideration The Companys policy is to have equal opportunities for of 648,114.
At 31 December 2012 the Company no longer training, career development and promotion for all held any shares in treasury.
"employees regardless of race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion or belief, gender, sexual orientation, political ""OOVBM FOFSBM."
FFUJOH beliefs, marital or civil partnership status, age, pregnancy ormaternity or disability.
Applications for employment by The AGM will commence at 12 noon on Thursday 18 April disabled persons are always fully considered with appropriate 2013 at York Racecourse, Knavesmire Road, York YO23 1EX.
regard to the aptitude and abilities of the person concerned.
The notice of the meeting and an explanation of the ordinary In the event of an employee becoming disabled every effort and special business are given in the AGM circular.
"ismade to ensure that their employment with the Group ""VEJUPS continues, that appropriate training is arranged and any reasonable adjustments are made to their working A resolution for the reappointment of the auditor KPMG environment."
It is the Groups policy that the training, career Audit Plc will be proposed at the AGM.
"development and promotion of disabled persons should, as ""VEJU TUBUFNFOU far as possible, be identical to that of other employees."
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this $IBSJUBCMF BOE QPMJUJDBM EPOBUJPOT Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is The Group has made donations of 359,000 2011: 94,000 norelevant audit information of which the Companys to support charitable organisations during the year.
The auditor is unaware and that each Director has taken all the principal donation was 250,000 to the Harley Staples Cancer steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to Trust the winner of the Companys 40th Birthday Charity make himself aware of any relevant audit information and House Competition.
Further details of the Groups toestablish that the Companys auditor is aware of that community involvement and charitable activities can information.
This confirmation is given and should be befound in the Sustainability Report on our website at interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section www.
No political 418of the Companies Act 2006. donations were made during the year.
"%JSFDUPST SFTQPOTJCJMJUZ ""DRVJTJUJPO PG PXO TIBSFT The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual At the AGM held on 19 April 2012 shareholders granted Report and financial statements in accordance with theCompany authority to purchase up to an aggregate applicable law and regulations."
Further details are provided of30,236,865 of its own shares.
No shares have been on page 46. purchasedto date under this authority and therefore at By order of the Board 31December 2012 the authority remained outstanding.
Thisauthority expires on 18 April 2013 and a resolution torenew the authority will be put to shareholders at the FJM 'SBODJT forthcoming AGM.
"SPVQ $PNQBOZ 4FDSFUBSZ 'FCSVBSZ 1FSTJNNPO 1MD $PNQBOZ 3FHJTUSBUJPO VNCFS 1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS 0WFSWJFX 4USBUFHZ, 1 T 1FSGPSNBODF PWFSOBODF 'JOBODJBMT 0UIFS JOGPSNBUJPO Remuneration Report The Board of Directors presents its Remuneration Report for r reviewed the long term incentive arrangements for the year ended 31 December 2012."
A resolution to approve executive Directors and senior managers, resulting this report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting inanew long term incentive plan being approved by to be held on 18 April 2013.
This report has been divided shareholders in October 2012.
The Persimmon Plc 2012 intotwo sections for audited and unaudited information.
Long Term Incentive Plan closely aligns the Directors Thefirst section of this report is unaudited.
interests with the Companys new strategy andCapital Return Plan announced in February 2012: 3FNVOFSBUJPO $PNNJUUFF r considered the executive Directors pension arrangements: and The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible for setting the Chairmans and each executive r considered the level of the Chairmans fees.
The executive Directors are Mike The Committee sought advice from its independent Farley, Group Chief Executive who retires on18 April 2013, remuneration consultants New Bridge Street NBS, a Jeff Fairburn, Group Managing Director who will become trading name of Aon Hewitt part of the Aon Corporation Group Chief Executive from 18 April 2013, Mike Killoran, who were appointed by the Committee.
NBS is a signatory Group Finance Director and Nigel Greenaway, tothe Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct SouthDivision Chief Executive who was appointed inrelation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Aon Hewitt also provides advice to the Company on the The Committees terms of reference are regularly reviewed Groups pension schemes via its actuarial and pension bythe Board and the current terms of reference were consultancy division.
The Committee does not consider adoptedon 23 February 2011.
Copies of the terms thatthe independence of NBS is compromised by this ofreference are available on the Companys website, appointment.
In addition, the Committee consulted with www.
com or from the Mike Farley, Group Chief Executive, although he did not GroupCompany Secretary.
participate in any discussion relating to his own remuneration.
The Committee is comprised of five non-executive Directors, who all served throughout the year except for Mark Preston The Committee has also reviewed the remuneration of the and Marion Sears who were appointed to the Committee on Groups Divisional Boards the level of management below 27February 2012 and 20 February 2013 respectively.
David board level and of the Group Company Secretary.
Thompson previously the Senior Independent Director alsoserved on the Committee until 27February 2012.
3FNVOFSBUJPO QPMJDZ GPS UIF FYFDVUJWF $VSSFOU NFNCFST %BUF PG BQQPJOUNFOU UP UIF $PNNJUUFF %JSFDUPST POBUIBO %BWJF $IBJSNBO BO The Committees policy for the executive Directors JDIPMBT 8SJHMFZ %FD remuneration is to provide remuneration which is largely FJM %BWJETPO 'FC performance orientated, closely aligns the Directors interests.
BSL 1SFTUPO 'FC with those of shareholders and which will retain a talented.
BSJPO 4FBST 'FC executive team who can deliver excellent long term Group performance.
The Committee met five times during 2012 to consider and To achieve this policy the remuneration of the executive approve the remuneration arrangements of the executive Directors is made up of different elements of fixed and Directors and the Chairman.
No Director is involved in any performance related pay, with a significant emphasis on discussion about his own remuneration.
performance related pay for achievement of stretching During the year the Committee reviewed the remuneration targets.
The executive Directors remuneration package policy for the executive Directors and the Chairman.
includes basic salary, an annual bonus plan, long term Theyhave: incentive plan awards, pension or pay in lieu of pension andbenefits.
r considered the level of the executive Directors basicsalaries: Basic salary, pension and benefits are fixed elements of remuneration and are intended to be at market competitive r considered the performance conditions and targets for the levels, commensurate with the executive Directors annualbonus scheme: experience and responsibilities.
"1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS 3FNVOFSBUJPO 3FQPSU DPOUJOVFE The Companys policy is for service contracts with The Committee considers the pay and employment executiveDirectors to have no more than a 12months conditions of Group employees generally and takes these noticeperiod."
intoaccount when determining the remuneration of the executive Directors.
Performance related pay makes up a Annual bonuses are performance related and significantly higher proportion of remuneration for the non-pensionable.
The aim of the Committee is to set executive Directors and senior employees than for employees stretching targets which will incentivise the executive generally, reflecting the role of these individuals in managing Directors to achieve excellent performance and reward the business to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
Annual bonus performance conditions are reviewed annually by theCommittee to ensure that The Boards policy is to also make long term incentive plan theconditions take into consideration the outlook for the awards to senior management to incentivise them to achieve Groupover the medium term and are appropriate from excellent long term financial performance, align their ariskperspective.
interests with the executive Directors and to help retain key individuals.
The value of long term incentive plan awards Any bonus earned in excess of 100% of basic salary will be granted is based on seniority.
The same performance made through awards under the Companys Bonus Share conditions are attached to awards made to senior Scheme Bonus Shares, which vest and become exercisable management as apply to awards made to executive Directors.
in two equal tranches, half on the announcement of the Companys final results in the year following the award and In addition, the Board has a policy to make invitations under half on the announcement of the Companys results in the the Companys Savings-Related Share Option Scheme to all second year following the award.
A dividend equivalent is permanent employees with more than six months service, to payable on awards that vest based on dividends and returns encourage the interest and awareness of all employees in the of cash to shareholders with record dates occurring between financial performance of the Group.
the date of grant and the date ofvesting.
In order to align the interests of the executive Directors with Long term incentive plan awards are designed to align the the interests of shareholders, the Committee encourages executive Directors interests with the Companys long term significant long term share ownership of the Companys financial performance and with the interests of shareholders.
shares by the executive Directors.
Formal share ownership The Committee determines whether awards should be guidelines have been in place for a number of years to granted to executive Directors and the level of any awards implement this policy, requiring each executive Director made.
The Committee also determines the performance tohold shares in the Company.
conditions attached to awards to ensure that the conditions The Committee considers that the policy for executive are stretching and appropriate to the Companys strategy.
Directors remuneration is in line with current market Overall, the Committees policy is to ensure that the balance standards and best practice.
of performance conditions in the annual bonus and long Full details of both the quantum of the individual term incentive plan awards provide a good link to the components of the packages payable to executive Directors Groups business strategy.
If challenging performance and the structure of annual bonus and LTIP awards, conditions attached to variablepay are achieved in full, including details of the performance conditions are asignificant proportion ofan executive Directors asfollows.
During 2012 the Committee, in line with best practice, introduced a clawback arrangement to the annual bonus planand to the Companys long term incentive plans.
Theclawback arrangement allows for the Company to recover annual bonuses made and share awards which vested due to an error or misstatement, or if a Director is guilty of gross misconduct which substantially affects the Companys financial performance or reputation.
"1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS 0WFSWJFX 4USBUFHZ, 1 T 1FSGPSNBODF PWFSOBODF 'JOBODJBMT 0UIFS JOGPSNBUJPO 3FNVOFSBUJPO 3FQPSU DPOUJOVFE The Committee has decided that annual bonuses for 2013 #BTJD TBMBSZ will again be based on a Profit Measure performance target, Basic salaries are reviewed by the Committee annually as it considers that this performance condition will withany increases normally taking effect from 1 January."
incentivise the Directors in line with the Groups strategic Generally, monthly paid employees throughout the Group priorities, which as can be seen on page 7 of the Business received a 3% basic salary increase in 2012. Review, include continuing to rebuild profit margins, which supports the Capital Return Plan.
After taking into consideration Group employees salary increases in 2012 and general market conditions, the The Committee has again determined an appropriate sliding Committee awarded Mike Farley and Mike Killoran scale around a profit target figure for bonuses equal to 100% a3%increase in their basic salaries on 1 January 2013. of basic salary.
In determining the target figure the Commensurate with his increased responsibility, Jeff Committee has taken into consideration the current market Fairburns salary was increased to 450,000 from 1 January conditions faced by the housebuilding industry and the 2013.
Jeffs salary will be further increased to 600,000 upon Groups budget.
The new target is based on budget figures his promotion to Group Chief Executive on 18 April 2013. which are commercially sensitive, but which will be disclosed Basic salaries are as set out below: in the next Remuneration Report.
The maximum bonus level which can be earned by the.
JLF 'BSMFZ b b executive Directors will be capped at 150% of salary for 2013, FGG 'BJSCVSO BO UP 7AQS b b unchanged from last year.
"Consistent with best practice, to GSPN ""QS b earn maximum bonuses, the executive Directors will need."
JLF, JMMPSBO b b tomeet very stretching performance levels above target.
"JHFM SFFOBXBZ b "" The Committee considers that bonus opportunity is broadly BQQPJOUFd 8JBOVBSZ comparable in terms of quantum and structure to that on offer at the other major listed UK housebuilders."
"""OOVBM CPOVTPOH 5FSN ODFOUJWF 1MBOT The performance condition for 2012 annual bonuses was based on Group profit before tax before exceptional items During 2012 the Committee undertook a review of the and goodwill impairment the Profit Measure, with the Companys existing long term incentive arrangements for following target figures and straight line vesting between executive Directors and senior management and concluded therelevant target figures."
that a new long term incentive plan should be introduced, soas to provide a closer link between reward to executive #POVT BT 1Sot measurF aperDFOUBHF Directors and senior management for the successful 5BSHFU SBOHF for2012 ofsalary implementation of the Companys new strategy and 5ISFTIPME b NJMMJPO CapitalReturn Plan, announced in February 2012.
5BSHFU b NJMMJPO Whileundertaking the review, the Committee consulted.
BYJNVN b NJMMJPO extensively with the Companys major shareholders.
Following this review, the Committee concluded that a The Profit Measure for 2012 was 225.1m and exceeded newlong term incentive plan should be introduced with thatof the previous year by 52%, as a result, annual bonus amuch longer vesting period and a performance condition payments for 2012 will be made at 150% of basic salary.
directly linked to the return of 1.9bn 6.20 per share to Bonus equal to 100% of basic salary will be paid in cash and shareholders over the 9 year Capital Return Plan period.
the remainder will be paid in Bonus Share Scheme awards.
The new Persimmon Plc 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan was The Committee considered whether a non-financial target, approved by shareholders at a general meeting on 17 October taking into consideration environmental, social and 2012.
Proxy votes were received on the resolution to approve governance matters, should comprise part of annual bonus this plan for 72% of the total voting rights and of those, 85% award performance conditions.
The Committee concluded voted in favour.
that financial targets are more appropriate for the executive Directors at this time and that there are appropriate procedures in place throughout the Group to ensure that non-financial matters are carefully considered and are integral to the Groups business operations.
The Committee also considered the level of risk associated with the remuneration policy and concluded that there are sufficient safeguards in this regard.
"1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS 3FNVOFSBUJPO 3FQPSU DPOUJOVFE 1FSTJNNPO 1MDPOH 5FSN ODFOUJWF 1MBO Generally, the options granted will normally become exercisable in two tranches."
To the extent options vest UIe -5 1 onorbefore 31 December 2017, up to 40% of the Following the approval of the 2012 LTIP, awards were made totalnumber of shares held under an option may be to approximately 140 members of senior management, exercisedfrom 31 December 2017 and the remainder including the executive Directors, the aim being to ensure ofthevested options shall normally become exercisable the whole senior management team is incentivised to meet on31December2021.
the Groups long term objectives.
Ifthe Cumulative Cash Return Targets are achieved early, This first tranche of options granted under the 2012 LTIP anaward will vest and become exercisable on the date this have an initial exercise price of 6.20, which will reduce isachieved, but no options will become exercisable before byanamount equal to the value of cash returns to 31December 2015. shareholders made by the Company during the period from If the Cumulative Cash Return Targets are not achieved by a date of grant to the earlier of 31 December 2021 or the date of Measurement Date except 31 December 2015 options will exercise of an option subject to the rules of the 2012 LTIP.
vest and become exercisable on the Measurement Date by The options are subject to a performance condition based which the Cumulative Cash Return Targets for that date have onthe cumulative aggregate value of cash returns the not been achieved and the number of shares that vest will be Cumulative Cash Return paid by the Company by five reduced accordingly.
specific measurement dates the Measurement Dates The awards made to the executive Directors in 2012 were overthe period starting on 1 January 2012 and ending asfollows: on31December 2021 the Cash Return Period.
Options will also be subject to the Underpin, see below.
OJUJBM FYFSDJTF QSJDF QFS TIBSF PO UIF SBOU %BUF 5PUBM OVNCFS PG TVCKFDU UP BEKVTUNFOU TIBSFT TVCKFDU UP For an option or proportion of an option to vest, the BNF underthe rules of the Plan UIF 0QUJPO following Cumulative Cash Return targets must normally.
JLF 'BSMFZ b beachieved by the Measurement Dates, as set out in the tablebelow:.
JLF, JMMPSBO b FGG 'BJSCVSO b $VNVMBUJWF $BTI 3FUVSO QBJE CZ UIF $PNQBOZ EVSJOH UIF $BTI 3FUVSO 1FSJPE CZ UIF JHFM SFFOBXBZ b. FBTVSFNFOU %BUFT TFU PVU PQQPTJUF theCumulative Cash ReturO 5BSHFUT.
FBTVSFNFOU %BUFT The Committee intends to make a further grant to Jeff b QFS TIBSF PS NPSF CZ %FDFNCFS Fairburn over 2,174,400 shares in view of his impending b QFS TIBSF PS NPSF CZ %FDFNCFS promotion to Group Chief Executive.
The option price for b QFS TIBSF PS NPSF CZ %FDFNCFS this additional award will be 6.20 or if higher, the market b QFS TIBSF PS NPSF CZ %FDFNCFS value of a Persimmon share immediately prior to the date b QFS TIBSF PS NPSF CZ %FDFNCFS ofgrant.
Thiswill take Mr Fairburns total award under the 2012 LTIP to4,590,400 shares.
The aggregate number of shares held under an option that As the completion of the first year of the Capital Return Plan will vest by each Measurement Date will normally be has placed the Company in a position ahead of our initial determined by reference to the fraction x 6.20, where x is expectations the Committee has decided that when Mike the value of the Cumulative Cash Return paid by the date Farley retires inApril 2013, 966,400 shares under the award ofthe relevant Measurement Date.
made to him in2012 will remain exercisable, subject to the In considering the extent to which the performance performance condition.
The earliest date that Mike Farley condition has been satisfied, no options shall vest and could exercise this option would be 31 December 2015 at become exercisable unless, in the opinion of the Committee, ananticipated option price of 4.50. acting fairly and reasonably, the cash returns paid by the For the same reason, it has also been decided in principle by Company during the Cash Return Period were financed out the Committee that none of the shares under the 2011 award of retained earnings and the Company has an ungeared made to Mike Farley under the Persimmon Plc Long Term balance sheet at the relevant Measurement Date except to Incentive Plan 2007 will lapse on his retirement.
Therefore, take account of events and or circumstances which the subject to the performance condition his full award may Committee fairly and reasonably determines are appropriate become exercisable in April 2014. the Underpin.
If the Cumulative Cash Return Target of 1.70 is not met by 31December 2015 the performance condition will not have been satisfied and the Plan will expire on 31 December 2015 and all options will lapse in full on that date.
"1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS 0WFSWJFX 4USBUFHZ, 1 T 1FSGPSNBODF PWFSOBODF 'JOBODJBMT 0UIFS JOGPSNBUJPO 3FNVOFSBUJPO 3FQPSU DPOUJOVFE 1FSTJNNPO 1MDPOH 5FSN ODFOUJWF 1MBO Mike Farley elected not to accrue any further service in theScheme after April 2006 and instead receives a salary UIF A -5 1 supplement of 30% of basic salary, which the Committee Awards granted in 2010 under the 2007 LTIP will vest in considers is cost neutral to the Company."
The vesting of the 2010 awards is subject to a pension is based on his pensionable salary at the date of performance condition made up of two parts.
Half of the leaving the Group or the Scheme and he remains a member award is subject to a condition measuring the relative Total of the Scheme for life insurance purposes.
A salary cap for Shareholder Return TSR of the Company against the pension purposes was introduced for Mike Farley in 2007 constituents of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment and his current pensionable salary is 463,579, substantially trusts.
The other half of the award is subject to a below his basic salary.
The normal retirement age in the performance condition measuring the Companys profit Scheme for Mike Farley is 60 and his accrual rate was 45ths.
before tax pre exceptional items PBT.
Both parts of the Jeff Fairburns normal retirement age is 65 and his accrual performance condition relating to these awards are measured rate is 60ths.
Jeff Fairburn is subject to a Scheme pensionable over a performance period of three years starting on salary cap of 137,400, which increases on 1 July each year in 1January 2010. line with increases in the Retail Price Index.
In addition Jeff The TSR vesting schedule is: is also a member of the Groups stakeholder pension scheme.
3BOL PG UIF $PNQBOZ T 543 He receives a Company contribution into his Group BHBJOTU DPNQBSBUPS DPNQBOJFT 1FSDFOUBHF PG TIBSFT TVCKFDU UP UIF 543 stakeholder policy of 9% of the difference between the PWFS UIF 1FSGPSNBODF 1FSJPE QFSGPSNBODF DPOEJUJPO UIBU XJMM 7FTU Scheme cap and 74,222, being an amount which would #FMPX NFEJBO JM takehis pensionable accrual contributions up to the HMRC.
FEJBO annual allowance for pension saving attracting income #FUXFFO NFEJBO BOE #FUXFFO BOE QSP SBUB taxrelief.
VQQFS RVBSUJMF PO B TUSBJHIU MJOF CBTJT As Jeff Fairburn does not earn pension on his total basic 6QQFS RVBSUJMF salary the Committee has agreed that he will also be paid asalary supplement of 9% of the difference between his The TSR performance condition was met in full and 100% pensionable pay and his basic salary.
This arrangement is ofthis half of the award will vest in March 2013. inplace for other employees within the Group below Board The PBT vesting schedule is: level whose benefits in the Scheme are limited to the Scheme 5IF SPVQ T QSot beforF UBY 1FSDFOUBHF PG TIBSFT TVCKFDU UP UIF SPVQ T pensionable salary cap and who wish to limit their QSeexceptional items over QSot beforF UBY QSF FYDFQUJPOBM JUFNT pensionable pay to the annual allowance.
thePerformance Period QFSGPSNBODF DPOEJUJPO UIBU XJMM 7FTU #FMPX b N JM Mike Killoran elected to cease accrual in the Scheme with effect from 1 April 2012.
The Committee agreed that Mike b N Killoran will be paid a salary supplement of 30% of his basic b N salary, which the Committee after taking advice from Aon b N PS NPSF Hewitt the Schemes pension consultants considers is cost neutral to the Company based on the pension benefits The Companys PBT over the three year performance period MikeKilloran previously earned.
Prior to 1 April 2012, was 453.6m and 100% of this half of the award will also vest Mikes Scheme retirement age was 60 and his accrual rate in March 2013. was 45ths.
He earned pension in the Scheme on a A dividend equivalent will be payable on this award, based pensionable salary of 140,625 a level which enabled him on dividends and returns of cash to shareholders with record toearn pension in the Scheme equal to the HMRC annual dates occurring between date of grant and date of vesting.
allowance and in addition, received a salary supplement of30% of the difference between his basic salary and his pensionable salary.
1FOTJPO Nigel Greenaway is not a member of a Group pension scheme Basic salary is the only element of an executive Directors and receives a salary supplement of 9% of his basic salary.
Mike Farley and JeffFairburn are members of the Persimmon Plc Pension andLife Assurance Scheme the Scheme, the Groups 0UIFS CFOFUT maindefined benefit pension scheme.
Accrual in the Benefit provision for executive Directors is comprised of fully Schemeis based on a career average revalued earnings financed cars or cash car allowance, membership of the basisfor all members.
Group private medical scheme, life assurance benefits, the Group income protection scheme, subscriptions and some telephone costs.
"1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS 3FNVOFSBUJPO 3FQPSU DPOUJOVFE Mike Farley and Mike Killoran hold significantly more than ""MM FNQMPZFF TIBSF TDIFNF the minimum."
As Jeff Fairburn and Nigel Greenaway do not The executive Directors may also participate in the currently hold the minimum, they are required to retain Companys Savings-Related Share Option Scheme, which is shares received as a result of share scheme awards except for open to all permanent employees who have more than six sales of shares to pay income tax and National Insurance due months service.
on the exercise of awards until they increase their shareholdings to the guideline requirement.
&YFDVUJWF %JSFDUPST TFSWJDF DPOUSBDUT &YUFSOBM BQQPJOUNFOUT The dates of the executive Directors service contracts are as set out below.
None of the executive Directors currently have an external %BUF PG PSNBM appointment.
The Directors recognise that external DPOUSBDU&GGFDUJWF GSPN PUJDF QFSJPE FYQJSZ appointments can broaden an individuals skills and.
"JLF 'BSMFZ ""QSJM BOVBSZ UI experience."
If an executive Director wishes to take up an NPOUIT CJSUIEBZ external appointment, he must first seek approval from the.
"JLF, JMMPSBO ""QSJM BOVBSZ UI Chairman and or the Group Chief Executive."
"NPOUIT CJSUIEBZ FGG 'BJSCVSO ""VHVTU VOF UI $IBJSNBO NPOUIT CJSUIEBZ The Committee is also responsible for setting the Chairmans JHFM BOVBSZ BOVBSZ UI SFFOBXBZ NPOUIT CJSUIEBZ remuneration."
Mr Wrigley has a letter of appointment dated 7 March 2011 to his role as Chairman.
He will be paid a fee of An executive Director is only entitled to payments for 190,000 p. a. for 2013, an increase of 3% on his fee for 2012. termination of employment where dismissed by the Mr Wrigley does not receive any bonus, pension, salary Company in breach of contract.
Such payments will be supplement or share scheme awards or other benefits.
subject to mitigation by the Director and will not in any event Mr Wrigley was not present when the Committee exceed 12 months basic salary and benefits.
In addition, if determined his fee level for his role as Chairman and Mike Killorans contract is terminated in breach of contract doesnot participate in any discussion relating to his by the Company, his termination payment may include any ownremuneration.
payment for bonus earned prior to the date of termination.
LTIP and Bonus Share awards are not contractual entitlements and Directors awards will lapse under the rules PO FYFDVUJWF %JSFDUPST of those schemes save in certain good leaver circumstances.
The remuneration policy for non-executive Directors is All of the Directors will retire at the 2013 Annual General topay fees commensurate with their duties.
Non-executive Meeting and except for Mike Farley and Neil Davidson are Directors have letters of appointment which set out their offering themselves for re-election.
Non-executive Directors duties and responsibilities: they do not have service contracts.
do not have service contracts.
Appointments may be terminated on one months notice.
Non-executive Directors do not qualify for performance 4IBSF PXOFSTIJQ HVJEFMJOFT related remuneration nor are they eligible for membership ofGroup pension schemes.
A non-executive Directors letter The Directors current share ownership requirements are of appointment is effective from their date of appointment asfollows: asa Director of the Company.
These dates can be found 7BMVF PG TIBSFIPMEJOH $VSSFOU IPMEJOH JODMVEJOH onpage27.
The Board as a whole determines the fees of the SFRVJSFNFOU TIBSFT IFME CZ TQPVTF non-executive Directors.
The fees for 2013 have increased by.
"JLF 'BSMFZ UJNFT CBTJD TBMBSZ UJNFT 3% to 53,000 p. a. plus an additional fee of 9,400 p. a. for CBTJcsBMBSZ extra responsibilities in chairing a committee.. JLF, JMMPSBO UJNFT CBTJD TBMBSZ UJNFT CBTJcsBMBSZ FGG 'BJSCVSO UJNFT CBTJD TBMBSZ UJNFT CBTJcsBMBSZ JHFM SFFOBXBZ UJNFT CBTJD TBMBSZ UJNFT CBTJcsBMBSZ 1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS 0WFSWJFX 4USBUFHZ, 1 T 1FSGPSNBODF PWFSOBODF 'JOBODJBMT 0UIFS JOGPSNBUJPO 3FNVOFSBUJPO 3FQPSU DPOUJOVFE 1FSGPSNBODF HSBQI Shown below is the Companys TSR performance against the FTSE 250 Index over the last five financial years."
The Board has chosen this comparator for the 2012 report as it is a broad index of which the Company is a member.
%FD %FD %FD %FD %FD %FD 1FSTJNNPO 1-$ '54& OEFY The auditor is required to report on the information contained in the following part of this report.
4DIFEVMF PG %JSFDUPST FNPMVNFOUT GPS UIeyFBS FOEFE %FDFNCFS 4BMBSZ %FGFSSFE CPOVT 4BMBSJFT 1FSGPSNBODF TVQQMFNFOU JO TIBSFT andfees SFMBUFE Benets lieu ofpension FBSOFE 5PUBM 5PUBM b cashbonus b b b b b $IBJSNBO 5 8SJHMFZ oooo &YFDVUJWF.
JMMPSBO PO FYFDVUJWF 3 $ %BWJETPO oooo 3 1FOOZDPPL oooo %BWJF oooo.
"1SFTUPO oooo o 'PSNFS OPO FYFDVUJWF p % ' 5IPNQTPO oooo 5PUBMT q 5IF SPVQ T EFOFE CFOFU QFOTJPO TDIFNF JT OPO DPOUSJCVUPSZ ""T B SFTVMU UIF TBMBSZ QBJE UP FBDI PG."
"JLF, JMMPSBO BOE FGG 'BJSCVSO XIJMF NFNCFST BDDSVJOH TFSWJDF JO UIJT TDIFNF XBT SFEVDFE CZ PG UIFJS QFOTJPOBCMF TBMBSZ XIJDI XPVME IBWF CFFO UIF NFNCFS SBUF PG DPOUSJCVUJPO UP UIF TDIFNF 4BMBSZ SFMBUFE CFOFUT SFNBJO CBTFE PO UIF TBMBSJFT QVCMJTIFE PO QBHF p %BWJE 5IPNQTPO SFUJSFE GSPN UIF #PBSE PO ""QSJM ?"
JLF, JMMPSBO IBWF FBDI TBDSJDFE QBSU PG UIFJS DBTI CPOVT FOUJUMFNFOU CFGPSF JUT BXBSE 1FOTJPO DPOUSJCVUJPOT FRVBM UP UIF BNPVOU HJWFO VQ XFSF NBEF JOUP QFOTJPO QMBOT GPS UIF CFOFU PG UIFJS EFQFOEBOUT.
BSL 1SFTUPO T GFFT BSF QBJE JO GVMM UP IJT FNQMPZJOH DPNQBOZ SPTWFOPS &TUBUF PMEJOHT Mr J Millar, who retired as a Director in April 2006 received a fee for 2012 of 12,500 2011: 12,500 in his capacity as a Group Special Projects Director.
Mr D H Davidson who retired as Chairman in April 2006 remains Life President and received a fee of 7,500 2011: 7,500 and benefits of 37,840 2011: 36,120 for the year to 31 December 2012.
Mr G Grewer, who retired asaDirector in December 2001 received a fee of 40,000 2011: 40,000 for his role as Chairman of the Trustees of both the Persimmon Plc Pension and Life Assurance Scheme and the Prowting Pension Scheme.
During the year other than referred to above, no Director waived his entitlement to any emoluments.
"1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS 3FNVOFSBUJPO 3FQPSU DPOUJOVFE %JSFDUPST QFOTJPO FOUJUMFNFOUT ODSFBTF 5ransfer value ofnet 5PUBM BDDSVFE 5PUBM BDDSVFE EFDSFBTF 5SBOTGFS ODSFBTF JO of ination incrFBTF QFOTJPO BU QFOTJPO BU ODSFBTF JO inaccrued 5SBOTGFS WBMVF valueat USBOTGFS WBMVF EFDSFBTF JO BDDSVFE 31December 31December BDDSVFE QFOTJPO at31 December 31December MFTT NFNCFS QFOTJPO MFTT NFNCFS QFOTJPO netofination DPOUSJCVUJPOT DPOUSJCVUJPOT b Q B b Q B b Q B b Q B b b b b."
JMMPSBO In addition the Company contributed 6,954 to Jeff Fairburns Stakeholder Pension policy for the year to 31 December 2012 2011: 9,527.
%JSFDUPST JOUFSFTUT JOPOH 5FSN ODFOUJWF 1MBO BXBSET BOE 4BWJOHT 3FMBUFE 4IBSF 4DIFNF PQUJPOT 1FSGPSNBODF &YFSDJTF QSJDF BOVBSZ SBOUFE &YFSDJTFEBQTFE %FDFNCFS &YFSDJTBCMF &YQJSZ DPOEJUJPO NBSLFU QSJDF BU EBUF inyear JO ZFBS inyear GSPN EBUF enddate PG BXBSE.
"BS %FD Q ooo ""QS ""QS %FD Q BO 0DU o oo BO 0DU %FD Q 5PUBM o 'BJSCVSO ooo 4FQ 4FQ %FD Q oo ""QS ""QS %FD Q ooo."
"BZ o Q BO 0DU o oo BO 0DU %FD Q 5PUBM o., JMMPSBO oo ""QS ""QS %FD Q ooo."
BZ o Q BO 0DU o oo BO 0DU %FD Q 5PUBM o SBOE 5PUBM o 0QUJPOT HSBOUFE VOEFS UIF 1FSTJNNPO 1MD 4BWJOHT 3FMBUFE 4IBSF 0QUJPO 4DIFNF 0QUJPOT HSBOUFE VOEFS UIF 1FSTJNNPO 1MDPOH 5FSN ODFOUJWF 1MBO 0QUJPOT HSBOUFE VOEFS UIF 1FSTJNNPO 1MDPOH 5FSN ODFOUJWF 1MBO All options and awards were granted for nil consideration.
The 2012 LTIP awards were made on 17 October 2012 and the performance condition relating to these awards is set out on page 40.
Vesting of LTIP awards granted in 2009 was subject to the achievement of performance conditions based half on TSR relative to the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts and half based on cash generation targets.
The vesting schedule for the TSR condition was 25% of the award for median performance, with sliding scale increases until full vesting at or above upper quartile performance.
The cash generation target was 400m for 25% of this part of the award to vest, rising to 600m or more for full vesting of this part of the award.
The TSR condition was partly met and the cash generation target was met in full, which meant that overall 88% of the 2009 award vested.
The performance conditions relating to LTIP awards made in 2010 are set out on page 41.
"1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS 0WFSWJFX 4USBUFHZ, 1 T 1FSGPSNBODF PWFSOBODF 'JOBODJBMT 0UIFS JOGPSNBUJPO 3FNVOFSBUJPO 3FQPSU DPOUJOVFE The performance conditions for 2011 awards are based half on TSR versus a comparator group of the constituents of the FTSE 250 and half on the Profit Measure targets."
The TSR performance condition is median to upper quartile performance for between 25% to 100% of this part of the award to vest.
The targets for the Profit Measure condition will be disclosed after the maturity of the awards.
The closing price of a share in the Company at 31 December 2012 was 800p, the lowest closing price in 2012 was 471.5p and thehighest closing price in 2012 was 820p.
%JSFDUPST JOUFSFTUT JO TIBSFT The interests of Directors serving at the end of the year and of their connected persons in the ordinary share capital of the Company are as shown below: beneficial holdings OUFSFTUT JO TIBSF PQUJPOT BOE BXBSET %FDFNCFS BOVBSZ %FDFNCFS BOVBSZ 5 8SJHMFZ o o.
1SFTUPO o o o o 5PUBM The Directors beneficial holdings represent 0.6% of the Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2012.
All interests ofthe Directors are beneficial.
There has been no change in the Directors interests set out above between 31 December 2012 and 22 February 2013.
Interests in share options and awards include the Directors interests in Bonus Share awards, as set outbelow.
#POVT 4IBSFT The interests of Directors in Bonus Shares are as shown below: #POVT 4IBSFT BXBSEFE 7FTUFE %FDFNCFS BOVBSZ EVSJOH ZFBS duringyear.
1 'BSMFZ o o 'BJSCVSO o o., JMMPSBO o o 5PUBM o o Bonus Shares vest over a two year period.
The proposed Bonus Share awards earned under the annual bonus arrangements for2012 for Mike Farley, Jeff Fairburn and Mike Killoran are 39,635, 21,020 and 25,779 respectively.
The proposed Bonus Share awards for 2012 were calculated at the average share price of 856.3p over the period from 1 January 2013 to 14 February 2013, inclusive.
"By order of the Board POBUIBO %BWJF $IBJSNBO 3FNVOFSBUJPO $PNNJUUFF 'FCSVBSZ 1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS"
