76 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Nominations Committee report Role of the Committee t regularly reviews the composition and structure of the Board and its committees t identies and recommends for Board approval suitable candidates to be appointed to the Board t considers succession planning for Directors and other senior executives and in doing this considers diversity, experience, knowledge and skills How the Committee spent its time during the year Norman Murray Chairman of the Nominations Committee Search for directors Non-executive Director Succession planning Governance other matters Diversity Membership and attendance at meetings held in 2012 Meetings attended eligible to attend Current members Norman Murray Chairman Ayman Asfari Thomas Thune Andersen Stefano Cao Roxanne Decyk a Ren Mdori Rijnhard van Tets a Ren Mdori was appointed a Director and member of the Committee in January 2012.
He missed one meeting due to a longstanding commitment arranged prior to his appointment to the Board.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 77 Dear shareholder Throughout the year, Geoff Traneld, our Group Director of HR provided the Committee with briengs about how the Group is Following a recent period of change to building its capability in general.
Details were given, at a granular level, on the evolving pipeline of talent and the effective processes being our Board, the Nominations Committee implemented to retain and attract talented individuals across the has, over the last year, been able to Group.
Leadership development programmes continued throughout concentrate on longer term succession 2012 and follow up modules, tailored to Petrofacs specic needs, arebeing developed: which may include attendance by Committee planning at Board level and below.
members, who were very supportive of these programmes.
Indoing so, we have been mindful of MrTraneld also provided the Committee with updates on the Groups enhanced processes in relation to recruitment, performance thecontinuing debate around diversity.
management and talent management, designed to support the overall HR strategy of meeting our strategic aims and growth targets.
Petrofac appointed its first external directors in the run up to the Companys admission to listing on the London Stock Exchange in The Board has determined it will monitor diversity through the 2005 and, as a consequence, the Companys original Non-executive Committee and, following the Committees recommendation, Directors stepped down from the Board in quick succession at the formallyadopted a Diversity and Inclusion Policy at the end of 2012. end of their respective terms in 2010 and 2011.
The Committee has Whilst werecognise that we have a gender imbalance within the therefore spent significant time over the last two years in search of Group, we arein many ways extremely varied with employees from new Non-executive Directors to refresh the Board.
This exercise has more than 80nations.
We believe that this policy should help to now been completed following the appointment of Ren Mdori in promote and protect diversity, which we see as one of our key January 2012.
At the same time, Marwan Chedid was appointed strengths and which draws upon the wider, recently enhanced Code asan Executive Director.
Whilst it is our policy for Non-executive of Conduct, details of which can be found on page 57.
The adoption Directors to serve for no more than six years, the Committee has ofthis policy will be supported by communications and training decided to make an exception for Rijnhard van Tets and invite him to programmes which are being rolled out across the Group in a phased remain on the Board beyond the 2013 AGM.
The Committee believes manner over the next 12 to 18 months.
Next year, we will review, that after a period of significant change, the Board would benefit from explain and report further on diversity in accordance with the revised Rijnhard continuing to serve as a Director.
I am delighted that he has UK Corporate Governance Code, which will take effect for financial agreed to stay and I am grateful for his support and counsel in his role years commencing on or after 1 October 2012.
The Committees as Senior Independent Director.
terms of reference were reviewed at the end of the year and it was agreed that they continue to conform to best practice and, as a result, Whilst succession planning for the Board has inevitably been less they remain unchanged.
ofan area of focus this year, we have still spent considerable time discussing this matter.
Last year we stated that, excluding me, we aspired for the Board to be comprised of 15% women by 2013 and 25% women by 2015.
We explained that we would only be able to meet this aspiration by the appointment of female Non-executive Directors given our current pipeline of female executive talent.
Norman Murray TheCommittee therefore worked extensively with Egon Zehnder Chairman of the Nominations Committee International during 2012, with whom we have no other relationship, to identify appropriately qualied candidates.
We remain confident 26 February 2013 that we will be able to meet our published target for 2013 in the near future.
I would emphasise that any woman who is appointed to our Board will be appointed on merit.
During last years evaluation exercise Directors expressed the viewthat they wished the Board to spend more time focusing on succession planning below Board level.
As you will see on page 73, we increased the amount of time spent on this vital part of our stewardship from 27% to over 35% between 2011 and 2012, withthe Committee being the forum in which the Board has discharged this responsibility.
78 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Audit Committee report Role of the Committee t monitors the integrity of the Companys financial statements and reviews significant financial reporting judgements t reviews the effectiveness of financial and regulatory compliance controls and systems t monitors the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function andreviews its material findings t oversees the relationship with the external auditors includingagreeing their fee and assessing their independence andeffectiveness How the Committee spent its time during the year Rijnhard van Tets Chairman of the Audit Committee Financial reporting $ External Audit, including review $ of non-audit services Governance other matters $ Code of Conduct, including our $ Speak Up programme Policy review $ Internal control systems $ Membership and attendance at meetings held in 2012 Meetings attended eligible to attend Current members Mr Rijnhard van Tets Chairman Mr Thomas Thune Andersen Ms Roxanne Decyk a Mr Ren Mdori a Ren Mdori was unable to attend one meeting due to a longstanding commitment arranged prior to his appointment to the Board.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 79 Dear shareholder In September 2012, the FRC published revised guidance in relation to audit committees which has been incorporated into the UK Corporate The Audit Committees main responsibility Governance Code and which will take effect for financial years beginning after 1 October 2012.
The Committee is fully aware of is to oversee our financial reporting and, itscurrent obligations and details of how the Audit Committee has during 2012, the Committees agenda also discharged its responsibilities during the year are provided in this included the consideration of matters report.
During the year, we reviewed our terms of reference.
Weagreed that they continue to conform to best practice and, which coincide with key events in our asaresult, remain unchanged from last year.
It is likely they will financial reporting calendar.
There were beamended during 2013 to take account of the new governance reporting requirements.
no changes in reporting standards that affected our financial statements in 2012.
The Audit Committee consists of four Independent Non-executive As the business evolves and the IES Directors and I consider that the Committee has an appropriate balance between those individuals with finance or accounting training division grows, the Committee will need and those from an oil and gas background.
tocontinue to stay abreast of the accounting implications forthe Group.
In addition to the general matters considered during the year, focus was also given to: Rijnhard van Tets Chairman of the Audit Committee t appropriateness of the Companys non-audit services policy t related party transactions 26 February 2013 t solvency and going concern statements t dividend payments, including compliance with Jersey legislation t continuing the development between the Audit and Board Risk Committees, to ensure that the risk of any matter falling between the two committees is minimised t monitoring progress on the implementation of our global Enterprise Resource Planning system t awareness of cyber security risks
