74 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Corporate governance report continued What is our approach to shareholders Does our Board receive information re-appointing Directors?
which allows it to identify when delivery of its goals are under threat?
In line with the UK Code, all Directors will seek re-appointment by shareholders at the 2013 Annual General Meeting AGM.
As required Ayman Asfari provides a full presentation on business operations by the UK Code, the terms and conditions of appointment of all ateach face-to-face Board meeting, during which any possible Directors are available for inspection by any person at our registered impediments to the delivery of our Group goals are highlighted and ofce in Jersey and at our corporate services ofce in London.
The Board also receives a comprehensive written report Theywill also be available for inspection prior to the AGM to be from Tim Weller, at each face-to-face Board meeting, as well as heldinLondon in May 2013. periodic updates between such meetings.
This ensures the Board iskept informed about the Groups financial performance for the yearto date as compared with the years budget or the latest Accountability revisedforecast, with explanations for any variances.
The budget and five-year plans submitted to the Board incorporate risk analysis as amatter of course.
In addition to financial goals, we have strategic How does our Board formally satisfy and operational goals and we continue to develop a broader set of financial and non-financial key performance indicators, which should itself that it has sound risk management assist us in monitoring delivery of these goals.
The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of Petrofacs risk management and internal control systems, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
The Board currently considers Remuneration this by reference to the work undertaken during the year by both the Audit and Board Risk Committees.
In addition to which, the Board also receives regular reports from members of management with How do we decide what responsibility for the Groups material enterprise risks.
theAudit Committee provided our Board with a formal report on the effectiveness of the Groups financial and regulatory controls while the Board Risk Committee provides a formal report on the effectiveness The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the of the Groups risk management systems in relation to the Groups remuneration and terms of employment of Executive Directors as well enterprise risks and project and investment risks.
These reports allow as some members of senior management.
This Committee is also the Board to take a view on whether or not the Group has sound risk responsible for determining the Chairmans fees.
A detailed report on management and internal control systems in place.
The Board is the activities of the Remuneration Committee is provided on pages 88 satisfied that sound risk management and internal control systems to 103.
Responsibility for determining the remuneration payable to have been in place across the Group throughout 2012 and as at theNon-executive Directors lies with the full Board.
The Executive todays date when the financial statements were approved.
Petrofac Directors and I therefore effectively determine the fees payable to the also seeks to have a sound system of internal control, based on the Non-executive Directors albeit we take independent external advice.
Groups policies and guidelines, in all material associates and joint These fees are reviewed each year and further details are provided ventures.
As with all companies, our systems of internal control and onpage 93. risk management are designed to mitigate and manage rather than eliminate business risk and can only ever provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
How does our Board identify Petrofacssignicant risks?
Management provides the Board, through the Board Risk Committee, with details of current significant risks and how we plan to mitigate them.
The risks that are considered significant today are shown on pages 47 to 49.
These risks are identied by reference to: t risk matrices received from each of our individual service lines bottom-up approach t the views of senior management top-down approach Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 75 Recognising the importance of shareholder engagement, towards Relations with Shareholders theend of the year I once again contacted investors, representative bodies and governance organisations offering them the opportunity tomeet, with the aim of understanding their governance concerns.
Who are our major shareholders?
Accompanied by our Secretary to the Board and the Head of Investor Relations, we met three of our largest institutional shareholders and with two key voting and advisory services providers.
Whilst areas offocus varied between meetings, succession planning, directors Ordinarily, shareholders of Jersey-incorporated companies with a UK remuneration, risk awareness and HSE issues were raised as areas of listing need only disclose their holdings if they hold voting rights of 5% particular interest.
We welcome further engagement from institutions or more in a company.
However, our Articles of Association have been as they make progress in adopting the FRC stewardship code and drafted so that any shareholder with 3% or more of our voting rights the recommendations from the Kay Review published in July 2012. must disclose their holding, bringing us in line with UK-incorporated companies.
Those shareholders with holdings of 3% or more at the A consultation exercise was also conducted by Thomas Thune year-end and as at the date of this report are as follows: Andersen, in his capacity as Chairman of the Remuneration Percentage Committee, in early 2012.
This entailed interaction with 24 major Number of of issued shareholders as well as three key advisory services providers and ordinary shares share capital included a number of face-to-face meetings.
The purpose of the Ayman Asfari and family 62,900,835 18.19 consultation was to discuss remuneration policy, especially as this Maroun Semaan and family 28,217,864 8.16 related to the introduction of our Value Creation Plan.
Further details of this consultation process are discussed on page 96.
We place considerable importance on communication with our How does our Board engage with our shareholders, including our employee shareholders, who all receive copies of our annual report and accounts and half-year reviews.
shareholders and make sure that it is Thisyear we gave shareholders the choice of only receiving their aware ofshareholders views?
communications in soft copy electronic form.
As at the year-end, over13%of our shareholders had opted to receive their shareholder documents electronically.
All shareholder documents, and all As a Board, we acknowledge our responsibilities to promote the announcements made to the market, together with copies of success of Petrofac for many people but our principal focus is, of presentations to analysts and interviews with Ayman are available course, our shareholders.
com, which we hope will encourage shareholders to become more informed investors.
Ayman Asfari, Tim Weller and the investor relations team, headed by Jonathan Low, have a regular programme of meetings scheduled each year and conduct a series of individual meetings with existing Our Annual General Meeting AGM and potential shareholders following our full and half year results and interim management statements.
They also provide presentations to Full details of this years AGM, which will be held in London, are set research analysts and institutional investors, including a question and out in the Notice of AGM which accompanies this report and which answer session, following the announcement of our full and half year isalso available on our website.
As a matter of good practice, we results.
These presentations are broadcast live on our website and willconduct all resolutions on a poll and announce the results to accordingly may be followed by all shareholders.
In 2012, they held themarket as soon as possible after the meeting.
All shareholders over 300 investor meetings, of which Ayman and or Tim attended areinvited to attend the Companys AGM at which they have the approximately 150 meetings.
In addition, both Andy Inglis and opportunity to put questions to the Board and meet with those Board Marwan Chedid joined a number of investor meetings during the year.
I look forward to seeing as many of you as I believe, therefore, that Ayman and Tim are each well placed to possible this year when my colleagues and I will be available to provide the rest of the Board with their insights into shareholder answer your questions.
AllDirectors receive brokers research notes from Jonathan and anupdate from our joint brokers at each Board meeting.
Norman Murray Chairman of the Board 26 February 2013
