80 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Audit Committee report continued Financial reporting External auditors The Committee assists the Board in the effective discharge of its Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young, who have been the Companys responsibilities for financial reporting and internal control.
As set out in auditor since initial listing, provide the Committee with relevant our Directors statements on page 104, Directors are responsible for reports, reviews, information and advice throughout the year as set the preparation of Group financial statements, in accordance with out in their engagement letter.
Their performance has been formally International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, and for being assessed by the Committee having due regard to their expertise, satisfied that they give a balanced and understandable view and resourcing and independence.
The Committee remains satisfied of provide the information necessary for stakeholders to assess the their effectiveness.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the performance, business model and strategy of the Company.
Committees choice of external auditors and the Committee did not TheGroup has an internal control and risk management framework in consider it necessary this year to conduct a tender process for the place which permits the Company to prepare consolidated accounts.
In accordance with UK regulations, This includes policies and procedures to ensure that adequate Ernst& Young adhere to a strict partner rotation policy based on the accounting records are maintained and transactions accurately mandatory requirements of Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standard recorded to ensure the Companys financial reports and 3.
The Committee monitors this rotation and confirms that a new lead communications to the market give a clear and balanced assessment audit partner will be appointed following the completion of the 2012 of the Companys position.
The Committee is aware of the recommendations set out by theFRC in the updated UK Governance Code in relation to audit During the year, the Committee considered and reviewed: tendering, which states that companies should put the external auditcontract out to tender at least every ten years.
It is understood t 2011 full-year and 2012 half-year financial statements, including that this provision has been drafted to enable audit committees to compliance with all financial reporting requirements compare the quality and effectiveness of the services provided t 2011 annual final results and 2012 half-year results announcements byallaudit rmsand, in accordance with suggested transitional made to the London Stock Exchange arrangements, we believe this will be required by Petrofac at the t any proposed announcements to be made by the Company to the endof the next partner rotation.
extent that they contained material financial information and which had not been considered by the whole Board t revised accounting policies Non-audit services t appropriateness of the Companys non-audit services policy We have a non-audit services policy that sets out the circumstances t the Companys application for a revolving credit facility where we may appoint our external auditors to undertake additional t the dividend policy, including consideration of the solvency non-audit work.
The Committee considered that the non-audit statement required under Companies Jersey Law 1991 services policy remained appropriate and no amendments were t details of the Groups related party transactions and whether these proposed during the year.
The current policy, a copy of which can be were executed on an arms length basis found on the Companys website is summarised opposite.
t results of managements assessments of the Groups going concern Management regularly provide the Committee with reports on the and Group solvency position, including recommending to the Board extent of non-audit services provided by our external auditors.
that the going concern assessment was reasonable Thesereports are reviewed at each Committee meeting and challenged, where necessary, to ensure such services fall within the In addition, we reviewed the 2012 full-year results and the Annual agreed policy and do not impair the objectivity or independence of Report and Accounts at the start of 2013. theauditors.
The majority of the non-audit work carried out by the auditors during the year related to tax compliance services in the As part of these reviews, the Committee discussed with the Chief Middle East and North Africa jurisdictions and the Committee believes Financial officer and the external auditors all significant accounting that, given their experience, Ernst & Young was the most appropriate policies, estimates and judgements that had been adopted: any supplier of this work.
There were no breaches during the year of the issues raised as part of the audit process were addressed during US$300,000 threshold requiring prior approval by the Committee.
theyear, as detailed in note 2 on page 113.
Details of non-audit work carried out by Ernst & Young during 2012 are provided in note 4e to the financial statements.
The non-audit fees have been monitored by the Committee throughout the year and, as a percentage of the overall audit fee forthe year, the non-audit fees are 24% 2011: 32%.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 81 Non-audit services policy Cyber security t The external auditors are automatically prohibited from carrying out There has been a great deal of external comment recently on cyber work which might impair their objectivity.
security and, in August last year, the UK Government published t Tim Weller, CFO, will seek approval from the Committee before guidance to boards on this subject.
During 2012, the Committee appointing the external auditors to carry out a piece of non-audit andBoard Risk Committee held a combined meeting to consider work where: theGroups IT security.
In line with our policy that the Board Risk the fee is above US$300,000 Committee monitors operational risk while the Committee concerns total non-audit fees for the year are approaching 50% of the itself with financial controls, this matter was passed to the Board Risk annual audit fee Committee at the start of 2013.
The Board Risk Committee has the external auditors would ordinarily be prohibited from carrying sincereceived separate reports on the Groups IT infrastructure out the work under the Companys non-audit services policy, but andinformation management.
In addition, it has included IT security not prohibited under Ethical Standard 5, and the CFO wants to withinour enterprise risk prole and as a matter of course, will appoint them due to exceptional circumstances therefore beprovided with regular updates on IT security using key t The Chief Financial officer may appoint the external auditor to do risk indicators.
The Group will shortly be launching an IT security other types of non-audit work as listed in the policy policy toall employees.
Whistleblowing process Internal control systems Details on the Companys whistleblowing policy and our Speak Up The Committee took responsibility for reviewing the Groups internal programme are provided within the Board Risk Committee report on controls as they relate to financial matters, primarily through its page 86.
However, in accordance with our agreed process, any engagement with our internal audit function.
Our Group Head of alleged breaches of the Code of Conduct relating to financial matters Internal Audit, Ajit Nair, is responsible for providing assurances on would be provided to the Committee, with analysis of the issues theadequacy of internal control functions throughout the Group reported together with details of any action being taken.
All other andattends each Committee meeting.
At the start of the year the matters are reviewed by the Board Risk Committee.
Committee agrees the annual internal audit plan, which is drawn up on a risk-based approach.
Any significant findings from internal control audits undertaken during the year have been appropriately Training investigated and the necessary actions taken to address and rectify Given that there were no changes to the accounting standards any weaknesses that may have been identied.
Ajit provides a duringthe year which would impact the preparation of Petrofacs progress report part way through the year, as a consequence of 2012 financial statements, no specic training was provided to the which, the plan may be revised.
A final report on the achievement of Committee.
However, members were encouraged to attend any the plan is given at the end of each year.
In February 2013 the external seminars run by professional advisers which were felt to be internalaudit department confirmed it had completed 87 assignments relevant and it has been confirmed that future training topics for the across a broad cross-section of the Groups activities during 2012.
Committee will be reviewed and reconsidered in early 2013.
Whilst the internal audit department is appropriately resourced, theCommittee has requested that Ajit seeks to broaden the departments capabilities, such that it has individuals uent in Arabic, Spanish and Russian, especially as the Group expands into new geographies.
It was further agreed that the 2013 audit plan should include a higher proportion of IES audits to reect the growing signicance of this division.
82 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Board Risk Committee report Role of the Committee t recommends risk appetite and delegations of authority t approves the annual assurance plan for the review and assessment of enterprise risks t reviews the Groups compliance system of corporate standards and procedures for enterprise risks t recommends any areas of risk management change that may be required for enterprise risks t reviews the Companys risk transfer strategy, including insurance provision t reviews the risk management and reporting systems for projects and investments Stefano Cao Chairman of the Board Risk Committee How the Committee spent its time during the year Compliance including bribery and whistleblowing Business continuity Group policies Insurance Governance other Risk management framework Security and travel Membership and attendance at meetings held in 2012 Meetings attended eligible to attend Current members Mr Stefano Cao Chairman Ms Roxanne Decyk a Mr Ren Mdori Mr Rijnhard van Tets a Ren Mdori joined the Board and Committee on 19 January 2012.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 83 Dear shareholder The Committee uses the Internal Control: Guidance to Directors formerly known as the Turnbull Guidance, as its main guidance for This year, following a busy 2011, the discharging its responsibilities as this assists in the application of the updated requirements introduced by the UK Corporate Governance Committee has focused its attention on Code UK Code.
During 2013 the Financial Reporting Council FRC clarifying key elements of the Groups intends to begin a consultation on the guidance, which was last enterprise risk prole through the lens of revised in 2005, to determine whether further updates are required.
The Committee will endeavour to participate inthe consultation on a series ofkey risk indicators which have thepotential modication of theguidance.
been rened during the course of the We believe that any framework of internal controls must be year.
Focus has been given to assurance underpinned by values and a culture which promotes good risk andreporting as we ensure our risk management processes.
We will continue to emphasise this.
management framework beds down Petrofachas spent a substantial amount of time over the last few years considering its own circumstances and I believe that, while we throughout the organisation.
still have work to do, our current processes and reporting capabilities provide us with an appropriate risk framework which we will continue The Committee has overseen the effective deployment of the to develop.
Companys Delegation of Authorities DoA, which was revised in2011.
The revised matrix sets out clearly those issues requiring Board approval and has helped to clarify the remit of the various risk review committees throughout the Group.
I was delighted to welcome Ren Mdori as a member of the Stefano Cao Committee in January 2012.
He brings considerable experience Chairman of the Board Risk Committee andexpertise which I believe will broaden further the Committees perspective.
A new Group Head of Enterprise Risk was appointed 26 February 2013 during the year whose primary remit is to assist the business units inimplementing effective and consistent processes and controls across the Group, and facilitating risk management within our agreedframework.
A great deal of support was received from management over the course of 2012, with all Executive Directors making themselves available to answer any question raised by the Committee.
The new Group Head of Enterprise Risk, along with the Group Director Legal &Commercial Affairs, led the overall review of the Groups risk management framework.
Other members of the management team, including the Chief Financial officer, Group Head of Compliance, Group Treasurer and Group Head of Security has each, during 2012, made presentations to the Committee.
It is intended that this programme be expanded during 2013 to include presentations from other members of the management team, particularly around health and safety matters.
Whilst the Board as a whole will continue to take responsibility in reviewing health and safety matters for the Group, ithas been decided that the Committee will undertake periodic deep dives into certain health, safety and environmental management areas.
The Group Director of HSSEIA attended the first meeting of 2013 to provide the Committee with a presentation on asset integrityassurance.
As in previous years, the Committee reviewed the Group policies thatcover non-financial controls and received updates on business continuity planning, security and the Groups insurance programme.
84 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Board Risk Committee report continued Review of the Groups risk Risk management objectives Petrofacs restated objectives for managing risk are: managementframework The UK Code requires the Board to determine: the nature and extent t to create an environment which promotes the long-term sustainable of the significant risks it is willing to take in order to achieve its growth of the Group strategic objectives.
In August 2011 the FRC published a report t to articulate clear policy standards and deploy effective and efficient Boards and Risk summarising the main issues to emerge from processes discussions with companies, investors and advisers on how boards t to define clearly ownership and responsibilities for managing risk were addressing risk and internal control.
This report highlighted the across the Group need for clear differentiation between the roles of management and t to create a risk-aware culture across the Group by informing, that of the Board and that when dealing with risk identication and training and motivating employees to consider risk within their management, the Board should focus on those significant strategic day-to-day decision making and external risks with the potential to cause damage to the financial t to deploy effective project risk management processes and controls viability or reputation of the Company.
across all business service lines t to provide transparency on Petrofacs risk management approach to Recognising the evolving regulatory landscape and aiming to support its Board and other key stakeholders Petrofacs strategy for growth, the Committee continued its efforts during the year by developing the Enterprise Risk Management ERM programme which commenced in2011.
Enterprise Risk Management system Throughout the year, the Committee has sought greater levels of The ERM programme was advanced during 2012 by the appointment consistency in the process and language used for risk assessment of a new Group Head of Enterprise Risk, who, following a business and reporting.
Anenterprise risk management system will be review, presented initial plans to the Committee to develop the evaluated for implementation in 2013 with the aim of adding value ERMprogramme.
These plans include: engaging and communicating through process simplication during risk identication: assessment: on risk more effectively: bringing greater clarity to Petrofacs management: monitoring: and reporting : and the production of riskmanagement strategy and risk management framework: clearer management information for decision makers at all levels and, inaccordance with recommendations made by the Committee, ofthe Group.
introducing further consistency to the process and language of risk and control across the business service lines.
The diagram below setsout the overall ERM framework, which is explained in further Enterprise risk prole detail below.
The key risks that could lead to a significant loss of reputation orprevent us from delivering our strategic plan are captured in our enterprise risk prole.
Theenterprise risk prole is updated quarterly and is the means bywhich enterprise risks are reported to the Board.
ERM framework The Groups enterprise risk prole is assessed through Key Risk Indicators KRIs, see pages 42 and 43 for a summary of these key performance indicators, which record exposure to potentially harmful Key controls: events.
The enterprise prole seeks to identify and measure risk t Governance t Policies across risk types and monitor emerging trends and exposures.
t Standards Further work is being undertaken to define these KRIs and, where t Processes Enterprise risk prole possible, to identify leading indicators.
t DoA t Assurance and Reporting t BCM Key Risk Register t Insurance programme Preparation of a Key Risk Register KRR also progressed during theyear, comprising all Petrofacs critical and significant risks.
ERM system: Thepurpose of this is to i map specic risks to the risk prole making Identify: Assess: Manage: Monitor: Report those relationships more explicit: and ii promote and supportthe active management of important risks.
The register willprovide further clarity around ownership, accountability and mitigation strategies.
Vision and strategy Performance Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 85 Risk governance framework Responsible for approval of significant projects and investments and approval Provides Provides Board of enterprise risk prole assurance on assurance on framework framework Board oversight of framework of Board Risk Committee Audit Committee internal controls and risk management Senior management consider risk on Enterprise risk Group Risk Committee significant projects and investments prole given to for formal consideration by the Board.
Board Risk Oversight of enterprise risk prole Committee Divisional management oversight Divisional Risk Review and review ofprojects Risk management is embedded Business Units within each business unit Assurance to management Group functions Internal Audit and theBoard The Committee also assists the Board with the denition and Governance arrangements execution of an effective risk management strategy and has Petrofacs system of risk governance relies on a number of responsibility for oversight of the Companys compliance system of committees and management processes which bring together reports corporate standards, processes and procedures.
In addition, the on the management of risk at various levels.
Committee provides the Board with assurance, on an annual basis, that the design and operating effectiveness of these systems remain The governance process relies upon regular risk assessments and t for purpose.
reviews of existing and new opportunities, by considering the risk exposure and appetite of each business unit service line and function.
The Group Risk Committee is a management committee The diagram above sets out the risk governance structure in constituted as the principal executive forum for the review of operation, showingthe interaction between the various risk review enterprise, project and investment risks, in accordance with the DoA and management committees.
Terms of reference are in place for approved by the Board.
The Group Risk Committee GRC reviews all each individual committee.
material new business opportunities and projects including bid submissions, country entry, joint ventures, investments, acquisitions The Board retains ultimate responsibility for setting the Groups risk and disposals, and is responsible for making recommendations as to appetite and reviewing the risks which the Board considers sufciently the management and mitigation ofrisk exposure and recommending significant that they might prevent the delivery of strategy or threaten theproposal for approval by the Board or the relevant executive.
While the revised DoA has generally TheGRC is responsible for the assurance of the ERM framework increased managements authority with regard to routine business, agreed by the Board, including the approval of Group standards and the Board has increased its oversight of business in any new territory: the application of the Boards DoA.
joint venture arrangement: and contracts with novel technology, services or terms.
Each division has a Risk Review Committee chaired by its Chief Executive which provides peer review of proposed The Board Risk Committee is constituted by the Board to assist projects and investments in accordance with the DoA approved by itin discharging this responsibility.
The Committee has responsibility the Board.
The committee reviews the risks and mitigation strategies for providing oversight and advice to the Board on the current risk in respect of new business opportunities or projects.
Where required exposures and future risk strategy and in doing so, is responsible by the DoA, it then prepares appropriate materials for the GRC and formaking recommendations to the Board in relation to the ERM ensures that no proposal is presented to the GRC without being framework, the Groups risk appetite and tolerance in pursuit of reviewed and supported by the Divisional Risk Review Committee.
business objectives: and for approval of the DoA.
