62 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Directors information Norman Murray Ayman Asfari Maroun Semaan Non-executive Chairman Group Chief Executive President Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 1 March 2011 and became Appointed to the Board on 11 January 2002.
Appointed to the Board on 11 January 2002.
Experience Experience Experience Ayman joined the Group in 1991 to establish Petrofac Maroun joined the Group in 1991 to establish Petrofac Prior to his portfolio career, Norman spent 25 years in the International, of which he was CEO.
He has more than International.
He was Group Chief Operating officer from venture capital industry.
He co-founded Morgan Grenfell 30years experience in the oil and gas industry, having January 2009 before becoming President on 1 January Private Equity Limited and was also a director of Morgan formerly worked as managing director of a major civil 2012.
Prior to joining Petrofac, he managed oil and gas Grenfell Asset Management Limited.
Until June 2011, andmechanical construction business in Oman.
pipeline, process facilities and civil works construction hewas chairman of Cairn Energy plc, having served on that contracts in Oman and Bahrain, with the Consolidated Key strengths board for 12 years.
In February 2012, Norman stepped Contractors International Company.
Distinguished record with strong operational leadership down as a non-executive director of Robert Wiseman Dairies skills: clear strategic vision: entrepreneurial track record: Key strengths plc.
He then stepped down from the board of Greene King international focus: extensive business development skills, Extensive leadership track record: wide ranging business plc in December 2012.
Norman is a former chairman of the wealth of oil industry knowledge.
development skills: commercial, operational and British Venture Capital Association and a past president of engineering experience: consistent execution of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Committee membership lump-sumengineering procurement and construction Member of Nominations Committee.
Key strengths EPC contracts: deep knowledge of the Middle East and Wide-reaching board, financial and commercial experience North Africa MENA region: deep appreciation of enterprise External appointments having served on various company boards, as both risksand comprehensive management of subsidiaries Member of the board of trustees of the American University director and chairman: deep understanding of governance andjoint ventures.
of Beirut, founder and Chairman of the Asfari Foundation and regulatory matters gained in entrepreneurial and member of the Senior Panel of Advisors of Committee membership environments and in energy markets.
Committee membership External appointments Chairman of Nominations Committee.
Member of the board of trustees of the American University External appointments of Sharjah and a founding member of the board of trustees Non-executive director of The Edrington Group Limited.
of the Arab Forum for Environment and Development.
Thomas Thune Andersen Stefano Cao Roxanne Decyk Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 13 May 2010.
Appointed to the Board on 13 May 2010.
Appointed to the Board on 1 March 2011.
Experience Experience Experience Thomas spent 32 years at the A. P. Mller-Mrsk Group Stefano has 32 years experience in the oil and gas industry.
Roxanne retired from The Royal Dutch Shell Group in with an international career ending as CEO and president From February 2009 to July 2012, he served as CEO of December 2010 having held a number of roles including ofMrsks oil and gas company.
He also served on Sintonia SA, a holding company owning infrastructure head of global government affairs and corporate affairs Mrsks main board and its executive committee from assets, including toll roads, airports and telecoms.
director over a period of 11 years.
Since 2009, Thomas has a board portfolio in From2000 to 2008, Stefano was chief operating officer Shells executive committee from 2005 to 2009.
Prior to companies in the energy and critical infrastructure sectors.
ofEnis exploration & production division, before which joining Shell, Roxanne had various roles at Amoco hespent 24years at Saipem SpA, the international oil Corporation and Navistar International Corporation.
Committee membership andgas services group, holding such senior roles as CEO, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and member Key strengths chairman and chief operating officer.
During 2012, ofthe Audit and Nominations Committees.
Strong track record in global and international government Stefanowas appointed a director of A2A SpA, the largest relations: extensive experience in the energy industry Italian multi-utility company.
Key strengths andexperience leading strategy in several industries: Wide-ranging international experience: broad knowledge Key strengths communications, sales and marketing knowledge: ofenergy industry and markets: proven track record Strong international business experience: broad knowledge reputation and brand management expertise: sustainable executing growth strategies and mobilising and developing of energy industry: significant knowledge of technical and development knowledge, broad international human organisations: HSE experience and extensive knowledge commercial activities, both as operator and contractor.
from both an executive and non-executive standpoint.
Committee membership Committee membership External appointments Chairman of the Board Risk Committee and Member of the Member of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Chairman of the Lloyds Register Group and Chairman of Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
the Board of Trustees for the Lloyds Foundation.
He is also Chairman of DeepOcean Group, Vice Chairman of VKR External appointments External appointments Holding and a non-executive director of SSE plc.
He is a director of the management board of A2A SpA and She is an independent director of Snap-on Incorporated a director of the boards of Sintonia SpA, Atlantia SpA, and Alliant Techsystems Inc. Autostrade per lItalia SpA, Gemina SpA, and Aeroporti diRoma SpA.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 63 Marwan Chedid Andy Inglis Tim Weller Chief Executive, Engineering, Construction, Chief Executive, Integrated Energy Services Chief Financial officer Operations and Maintenance Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 1 March 2011.
Appointed to the Board on 13 October 2011.
Appointment Appointed to the Board on 19 January 2012.
Experience Experience Andy joined Petrofac in January 2011 having spent Tim joined Petrofac in September 2011 from Cable & Wireless Experience 30years with BP, latterly as CEO of its exploration and Worldwide, where he had been chief financial officer between Marwan joined Petrofac in 1992 when the business was production business.
He was an executive director on the May 2010 and July 2011.
A Fellow of the Institute of first established in Sharjah, having previously worked for BP plc board between 2007 and 2010.
He started his BP CharteredAccountants in England and Wales with a degree CCC, a major consolidated contractor company based career as a project engineer on various North Sea projects, inEngineering Science, he started his career with KPMG inthe Gulf and the Middle East, for eight years.
In 2007, followed by commercial and operating roles in BPs inLondon, eventually becoming a partner in KPMGs hewas appointed chief operating officer of the Engineering upstream business.
He became executive vice president Infrastructure Business Unit.
Until May 2010, he was chief & Construction International business, with day-to-day and deputy chief executive of BP exploration & production financial officer at United Utilities Group PLC and had previously responsibility for the successful delivery of overall in 2004.
He is a former non-executive director of BAE held chief financial officer roles with RWE Thames Water operations.
In January 2009, he became managing Systems plc.
Limited and Innogy Holdings PLC now RWE npower Holdings directorof Engineering & Construction Ventures before PLC from 2002 to 2006.
Tim will become a non-executive being appointed as chief executive, ECOM with effect Key strengths director of G4S plc on 1 April 2013.
He is due to step down from1January 2012.
Broad strategic understanding and deep technical from the Board of BBC Worldwide in March 2013. knowledge of the oil and gas industry: proven global and Key strengths operational leadership: considerable board and executive Key strengths Thorough knowledge of the oil and gas sector and management experience.
Wide-ranging financial management experience: strategic contracting environments: solid commercial, operational and financial planning, cost control and capital efficiencies: and engineering experience: excellent understanding of Committee membership external stakeholder communications and management: growing a business.
experience of major systems implementation.
Committee membership External appointments Committee membership None.
External appointments External appointments None.
Non-executive director of the Carbon Trust and BBCWorldwide.
Ren Mdori Rijnhard van Tets Mary Hitchon Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Secretary to the Board Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 19 January 2012.
Appointed to the Board on 11 May 2007.
Experience Experience Experience Ren is finance director of Anglo American plc, a position Senior Independent Director, Rijnhard is general partner Mary joined Petrofac shortly after IPO and has responsibility he has held since September 2005.
He was group finance ofLaaken Asset Management NV.
He advised the for the Groups governance and listing rule compliance director of The BOC Group plc between June 2000 to managing board of ABN AMRO between 2002 and 2007, framework.
She is secretary to the Board and its May2005, having held several finance appointments, having previously served as a managing board member committees.
Mary is a chartered secretary with almost including as finance director of BOCs gases business in for12years.
At ABN AMRO, his roles included that of 20years experience in a UK listed environment having the Americas, from 1997.
Ren stepped down as a chairman of the wholesale clients and investment previously worked at TBI plc, the AXA group and Savills plc.
non-executive of SSE plc in June 2012. bankinggroup.
Key strengths Key strengths Extensive and current international financial experience: Extensive financial background, with solid international well-established knowledge of governance and regulatory board and senior management experience achieved from matters: good understanding of operational and strategic serving on various company boards and advisory trusts: management: experience of balance sheet strengthening excellent experience of governance and audit committees.
opportunities and the whole range of nancing Committee membership arrangements.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Committee membership Nominations and Board Risk Committees.
Member of the Audit, Nominations and Board Risk External appointments Committees.
He is non-executive chairman of Arcadis NV, Euronext External appointments Amsterdam NV and Euronext NV, and a non-executive He is an executive director of Anglo American plc director of IFF Europe, NYSE Euronext Inc and BNP andnon-executive director fide Beers and Anglo Paribas OBAM N. V. PlatinumLimited.
64 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Corporate governance report Dear shareholder I am pleased to present the Companys corporate governance report for 2012.
Thisreport gives me the opportunity to outlineour Boards continuing commitment toachieving the highest standards of governance.
Since joining Petrofac in 2011, Ihave been encouraged by the governance framework evident across the Group.
Norman Murray As stewards of the Company, I believe it is the Chairman responsibility of the whole Board to ensure theCompanys strategy is aligned with the interests of our investors and stakeholders.
During the year we have continued to engage with our major stakeholders to try to understand their views and to ensure we continue to improve and develop not just ourgovernance reporting, but our overall governance behaviours.
We believe that a robust governance framework based on integrity and transparency, which promotes challenge andaccountability, is a cornerstone of our organisation.
Throughout this report we have endeavoured to build on previous reports to provide clear information for all stakeholders on how Petrofac sets out to achieve our goals.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 65 What is our approach to governance?
How are we aspiring to achieve our diversitytargets?
As a Jersey incorporated company with a premium listing on the Diversity continues to be a significant governance theme, and at London Stock Exchange, Petrofac is required to report against the UK Petrofac, we see diversity as a wider topic than simply gender.
Corporate Governance Code UK Code, meeting the UKs highest Weremain committed to achieving our future growth aspirations by standards of regulation and corporate governance.
In September building a pipeline of talent organically.
Weare therefore continuing 2012, following a period of consultation, the Financial Reporting tostrengthen our HR processes, including our recruitment and Council FRC announced limited changes to the UK Code which will performance management frameworks.
We are confident that we are take effect for financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2012 succeeding in building an organisation that recruits and promotes 2012 Updated Code.
These changes have been designed to provide employees on the basis of ability, irrespective of background or investors with greater insight into what companies are doing, through gender.
In order to support this aspiration, the Board approved the work of the Board and its committees.
The FRC has stated that aDiversity and Inclusion Policy during the year and the Company changes to the 2012 Updated Code, along with changes to the intends to support its roll-out across the Group with appropriate UKStewardship Code, first published in 2010, are intended to training over the next 1218 months.
increase director accountability and encourage greater stakeholder engagement, whilst promoting the interests of shareholders.
Notwithstanding that diversity is broader than simply gender: we feel we should say something about the Groups gender imbalance, This report, including the reports from the Nominations, Audit, Board givenhow pronounced it is.
Historically, engineering has been a Risk and Remuneration Committees, describes how the Company predominantly male-dominated profession and, as such, we currently has applied all of the principles set out in sections A to E of the UK have very few women in senior operational roles, although we do Code during the period under review.
Where it can, the Company has have a number of women in senior functional roles.
Whilst we do not already adopted some of the principles from the 2012 Updated Code, anticipate this situation changing in the short term, we should begin to such as in relation to disclosures on Board evaluation, external search see more female employees moving up through the hierarchy over the consultants and remuneration consultants.
The Companys auditors, next few years as our new HR processes start to take effect.
In fact, Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young, are required to review whether during 2012, 21% of our graduate intake was female.
Next year, the corporate governance report reects the Companys compliance wewill provide further metrics in relation to diversity within with the nine provisions of the UK Code specified for their review by ourorganisation.
the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
Copies of In 2011, in response to Lord Davies Review, we publicly stated that the UK Code, as well as the 2012 Updated Code, are publicly we aspired to having a Board comprised of 15% and 25% female available at www.
representation by 2013 and 2015 respectively, excluding the Chairman.
I have previously explained that we would only achieve these aspirations by appointing new Non-executive Directors, given How have we responded to recent our current lack of female operational management at a senior level.
The Nominations Committee has worked hard this year to identify possible female candidates for the Board.
Whilst progress has been slower than we would have liked, we remain confident that we will As Chairman, I take responsibility for providing our Board with the appoint a further female Non-executive Director in the near future, opportunity to consider all governance developments and for ensuring thus meeting our aspiration for 2013, in addition to complying with the that Directors receive appropriate training and education on relevant EU proposal on gender balance in business leadership consultation issues.
The last year has seen the continuation of several Government which aims to ll 40% of Non-executive Director positions with and regulatory consultations and, where relevant for Petrofac, we women.
Shareholders can rest assured, however, that any woman have provided responses to a number of these, including: soappointed to the Board will be the best candidate for the role on the basis of merit.
t the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills BIS consultation on enhanced remuneration voting rights Further information on progress towards our boardroom targets and t the subsequent BIS consultation on revised remuneration reporting the work completed by the HR department around the development regulations of our Diversity and Inclusion Policy can be found in the Nominations t the FRC consultation on the future of narrative reporting Report on page 77. t the Competition Private Rights of Actions t input into the call for evidence report on EU Women on Board Proposals, published by the House of Lords EU Sub-Committee t the ICSA, in conjunction with the Investor Stewardship Working Party, consultation on improving engagement practices between companies and institutional investors We hope the increased engagement being promoted will help to shape future legislation and regulation, as well as promote greater accountability and provide enhanced disclosures for all stakeholders.
"66 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Corporate governance report continued Leadership How the Board spent its time during the year Setting the tone Strategy ' ## ""#!"
Schedule of matters reserved to the Board for formal What should our Board be doing?
: t setting the Groups strategy While the Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for formal t approval to enter into contracts which are deemed to be material decision see opposite, we recognise that there are a number of either strategically or by reason of size, duration or liability keytopics for which all boards should take responsibility.
We have t approval of the annual budget categorised these into six key headings see above.
We acknowledge that asaBoard, either directly or through our Committees, we should t approval of major corporate transactions endeavour to focus on developing our processes in order to grow our business successfully and provide continuous improvement across t approval of major changes to the Groups capital structure the whole Group.
t approval of key policies, such as those relating to Health, Safety, Security, Environment and Integrity Assurance HSSEIA, our Code of Conduct CoC, and Diversity and Inclusion t preparing the Groups and Companys financial statements t recommending or declaring a dividend t reviewing the Groups overall governance arrangements including approval of the delegated authorities matrix t maintaining effective internal controls and risk management t succession planning and appointments to the Board t setting senior executive remuneration t reviewing the performance of the Board itself and its committees Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 67 Leadership What did our Board do in 2012?
The leadership at Petrofac has been described as entrepreneurial and this could be paraphrased as our management team putting strategy into action.
significant time was spent during the year embedding the new divisional organisational structure and ensuring Having identied last year the key responsibilities on which we believe reporting lines were robust.
Through the work of the Nominations boards should be focused, I now set out some of the specic matters Committee, focus was given to continued succession planning and our Board considered and addressed during 2012.
This is not an identifying key employees across the Group.
exhaustive list but it does include some of the years key highlights: Our delegated authority framework stipulates the contracts and other Setting the tone matters which require Board approval and some of the matters which The Board is responsible for approving key policies.
The Health, our Board considered and approved during 2012 include: Safety, Security, Environment and Integrity Assurance HSSEIA policy and annual plan are reviewed and updated each January.
A further t the agreement in January to enter into a Co-operation Agreement review of the Health and Safety framework for the Group is being between Integrated Energy Services and Schlumberger Production considered and will be completed during 2013.
Following the Management under which a working relationship would be appointment in 2011 of a Group Head of Compliance, a decision was established to deliver integrated and high-value projects in the taken in early 2012 to refresh the Companys Code of Conduct CoC.
emerging and growing production services and enhancement This was completed during the year and the updated CoC was markets approved by the Board in December 2012 and is currently being t the bid for a US$330 million lump-sum engineering, procurement rolled out across the Group.
Further details of this project are and construction EPC contract for the first phase of the Badra providedon page 57.
Oileld Development Project in Iraq in February: and a further inspection and repair contract valued at US$229 million for the Governance Rumaila oil eld in Southern Iraq with our joint venture partner, Closely linked to the work on setting the tone, the Board, through the ChinaPetroleum Engineering & Construction Corporation CPECC Nominations Committee, reviewed and approved a new Diversity and in November Inclusion Policy.
This policy draws upon the wider Code of Conduct, t the tender for a US$220 million refurbishment project of the noted above, and aims to ensure that Petrofac promotes and protects Bekok-C platform in Malaysia by PETRONAS in May diversity across the Group.
Further details are provided on page 57. t the bid for an integrated production service contract in August to Inaddition, the new Head of External Affairs provided a report to develop theArenque contract area in offshore Mexico, which will theBoard on future plans for the Group, which included the further strengthen the relationship with PEMEX and our commitment implementation of a Social Impacts Standard that will provide toassist in the development of Mexican oil and gas reserves guidance on social assessments, grievance mechanisms and t entering into the strategic alliance in November with Bowleven, the stakeholder engagement in overseas jurisdictions.
African-focused oil and gas company to support the proposed development of the Etinde Permit, offshore Cameroon Strategy t the proposed bid for two EPC packages for Saudi Aramcos Jazan To continue its commitment to focus on strategy, the Board again Renery and Terminal project in Saudi Arabia, valued around spent over 30% of its time discussing strategic matters.
Two specic US$1.4 billion in December meetings, a dedicated strategy day in May and a further half day in December, are set out in the annual timetable, and allow the Board to Risk review key strategic initiatives.
This year, attention was given to the The Board continued to review the significant risks facing the business development of the Fit for 2015 programme, as detailed on pages 22 and these were outlined within the Group Chief Executives regular and 23.
Inaddition, the Board was able to monitor and measure reports to the Board.
A new Group Head of Enterprise Risk was progress against strategic delivery, with reference to budget appointed during the year whose primary remit is to assist the development, as well as the endorsement of our five-year plans.
business units in implementing effective and consistent processes Management also gave the Board a series of deep dive and controls across the Group, which will facilitate the execution of presentations on various strategic initiatives during the course of risk management within our agreed framework.
The Board Risk theyear, one of which was specically on the development of our Committee also sought to embed the updated requirements around Training Services service line.
risk introduced by the UK Code and further details are provided in its report on pages 82 to 87.
Finance The Board regularly monitors the Groups financial performance and approves all financial statements to the market.
The Audit Committee takes prime responsibility for assuring the Board that the Group hassatisfactory financial controls in place.
In August, the Board considered and approved the signing of a new US$1.2 billion syndicated five-year revolving credit facility, with the intention that thisfacility would provide Petrofac with future nancing exibility.
Inaddition, the Board reviewed and approved the 2013 budget andve-year plan in December.
68 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Corporate governance report continued Who is on our Board?
How is our Board organised?
Following the appointment of Ren Mdori and Marwan Chedid in Role of the Chairman January 2012, there have been no additional changes to our Board.
As Chairman, I am responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its The more recently appointed directors have now had time to become effectiveness.
I see my role as one which ensures that the Board both familiar with the organisation thus enhancing Board effectiveness.
At31 December 2012, and at the date of this report, we have 11Directors on the Board comprising myself as Chairman, five Role of the Group Chief Executive Non-executive Directors and five Executive Directors as set out Ayman Asfari is our Group Chief Executive and is responsible for inthetable below: theimplementation and execution of strategy and the day-to-day management of the Group.
He is supported by his fellow Executive Name Position Nationality Directors and the senior management team whose details are outlined Norman Murray Chairman on pages 24 and 25.
Ayman and I have clearly dened terms of reference and these are set Rijnhard van Tets Senior Independent Director out in writing.
The split in responsibilities is shown in the table below: Thomas Thune Andersen Non-executive Director Roles Chairman Group Chief Executive Stefano Cao Non-executive Director Lead the Board Implement strategy and objectives Ensure effective communication Develop manageable goals and Roxanne Decyk Non-executive Director with shareholders priorities Ensure effective communication Lead and motivate the Ren Mdori Non-executive Director ows between Directors management teams Appointed 19 01 12 Facilitate the effective contribution Develop proposals to present to of all Directors the Board on all areas reserved for Ayman Asfari Group Chief Executive its judgement Ensure effective Board Develop Group policies for Maroun Semaan President governance approval by the Board and ensure implementation Marwan Chedid Chief Executive, ECOM Appointed 19 01 12 Role of the Senior Independent Director Andy Inglis Chief Executive, IES Rijnhard van Tets is our Senior Independent Director, a position he assumed in May 2011.
He is available to shareholders to answer any Tim Weller Chief Financial officer questions which cannot be addressed by me or the Group Chief Executive.
He acts as a sounding board and condante to me as Chairman and is also available as an intermediary for the other Mr Asfari is a British citizen: however he is Syrian born and has dual nationality.
Rijnhard would be called upon to Full biographies of each of our Directors are shown on pages 62 and chair our Board in the unlikely event that I am unavailable to attend 63 as well as in the Notice of Meeting.
All our Non-executive Directors any meeting thus providing suitable continuity.
As noted in the are independent in judgement and character.
All Directors are required Nominations Report on page 77, at the Boards request, Rijnhard will to disclose any potential conict to our Board for its consideration and remain a Director beyond the end of his second three-year rotation.
I am not aware of any relationship or circumstance which is likely to Itis felt Rijnhards continued presence will provide continuity after a prejudice, or could appear to prejudice, the judgement of any Director.
recent period of change to the Boards composition.
We have made considerable efforts to build a board with the right Secretary to the Board balance of skills, diversity and industry expertise.
You will see that our Our Secretary to the Board, Mary Hitchon, is responsible to our Board Directors are drawn from across the world and have varied career and has acted as Secretary to all committees during the year.
She is histories, with no single type of person dominating the Board.
We are available to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures and fortunate in that many of our Directors bring a great deal of experience provides general support and advice.
One of her key roles is to advise in the oil and gas industry, both in lump-sum contracting and me on governance matters so that I can enhance the governance exploration and production.
We believe this is essential to safeguard andeffectiveness of the Board, the committees and our individual the interests of our shareholders.
The additional strengths brought to Directors, which she does with professionalism and integrity.
the Board by each Director are detailed further on pages 62 and 63.
Sheensures that our Board is kept properly informed and is consulted on all matters reserved to it and that papers and other information are delivered in a timely fashion.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 69 the Non-executive Directors separately.
Each of these meetings How is the Board structured?
provides insight which assists me in two ways: I am better able to set the agenda for our Board meetings and I can ensure that all Directors contribute at our meetings through their individual and collective experience, challenge and support.
As a Jersey company, our Board is unitary in nature.
This means that all our Directors share equal responsibility for the decisions that we The Board is assisted by four committees as set out in the diagram make.
Executive and Non-executive Directors need to be able to work below.
Each committee is responsible for reviewing and overseeing together in an atmosphere of openness, trust and mutual respect.
It is activities within its particular terms of reference: copies of which are therefore important that all Directors see the Chairman as a fair and available on the Companys website www.
My relationships with the Group Chief Executive scheduled Board meeting, the chairman of each committee provides and the Senior Independent Director are of particular importance, a summary of any committee meeting held since the previous Board asthese two individuals represent the views of management and meeting and: further, the minutes of all committee meetings are Non-executive Directors, respectively.
I believe that an effective circulated to the Board.
Individual reports from each committee working relationship between each of our Directors provides a robust chairman for 2012 are provided on pages 76 to 103.
In addition framework which assists in the progression of the Companys tothefour Board Committees, there are a number of executive strategic aims.
I hold regular private meetings with Ayman and with management committees which have been established to consider Rijnhard between our Board meetings and believe that I am equally various issues involved in the day-to-day operational management informed about the views of management and Non-executive ofPetrofac, and matters for recommendation to the Board and Directors.
In addition, I set aside time during Board meetings to see itscommittees.
Shareholders Board level committees Responsible for decisions of a strategic or substantive nature.
Elect the Directors Elect the auditors Board Non-executive Chairman, 5 Executive Directors and 5 Non-executive Directors Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Board Risk Committee Audit Committee Non-executive Chairman, 3 Non-executive Directors 4 Non-executive Directors 4 Non-executive Directors 5 Non-executive Directors and Agrees remuneration policy and sets Oversees the Groups risk Monitors the integrity of the 1 Executive Director individual compensation levels for management andinternal control Companys financial statements and Takes primary responsibility for members of senior management processes for non-financial matters reviews financial and regulatory succession planning, Board Director compliance and controls selection andBoard composition Committeereportpages 76 and 77 Committeereportpages 88 to 103 Committeereportpages 82 to 87 Committeereportpages 78 to 81 Executive Management Level Committees Responsible for the communication and implementation of decisions and administrative matters.
Chief Executive Executive Group Risk Disclosure Treasury Guarantee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Board tenure Executive Non-executive Geographical mix of Director balance Board members Six years or more Executive Directors UK Three five years Non-executive Directors Continental Europe One two years Non-executive Chairman US Less than one year Middle East 70 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Corporate governance report continued Who attends Board meetings?
Where does our Board meet?
As well as Directors and the Secretary to the Board, guests from Petrofac Limited was incorporated in Jersey under the Companies operational and functional management are periodically invited to Jersey Law 1991 and although we hold our Board meetings at a attend Board meetings.
During 2012, updates were provided from variety of locations, most are held in Jersey.
We ensure that at least operational management, one and two tiers below director level, as one of our six scheduled meetings is held in Sharjah, UAE being the well as from the functional heads of HSSEIA, HR, Risk, Compliance location of our largest ofce and the centre of our OEC business.
We believe this interaction helps Directors get to know While in Sharjah in 2012, the Board took the opportunity to meet the Company and its senior management better, enhances their around 50 members of our local management team over an informal understanding of the business and the implementation of strategy dinner.
Every year we also hold one meeting in a location where andmakes for more effective Board meetings that, while always Petrofac has significant business.
In October 2012, we visited the professional, are nevertheless lively and engaging.
We also consider ElMerk project site in Algeria see below.
Meetings held outside that providing senior management the opportunity to present to the ofJersey allow theBoard to get to know Petrofac, its people, its Board and meet the Directors on more informal occasions is valuable customers and its business partners.
How often does our Board meet?
The Board meets face-to-face at least six times a year at scheduled meetings.
In addition, the Board meets on an ad hoc basis, either face-to-face or telephonically, where items of business arise which cannot be held over until the next scheduled meeting.
Scheduled meetings are generally held over a two-day period, though at least two of these meetings are longer as during our annual programme of events we also hold a dedicated strategy day as well as a site visit.
Committee meetings are held prior to the full Board meeting.
Detailsof Director attendance and eligibility to attend are set out in thetable below: In October, the Board held its board meeting at the El Merk site inAlgeria, where we were in the process of completing the Total number of meetings held during theyear construction of a central processing facility for our customers, to 31 December 2012 Sonatrach and Anadarko.
During this three-day visit, the Board Board meetings attended eligible to attend wasgiven the opportunity to understand some of the day-to-day challenges faced by our on-site employees.
This has been even a Norman Murray more pertinent for our Directors given recent events in this country.
Updates and presentations from local management were Rijnhard van Tets providedand Directors had the chance to meet with a number ofengineering graduates working on the base, and to see Thomas Thune Andersen first-hand the work being carried out.
The visit also gave Directors Stefano Cao the opportunity to meet and discuss the project with Sonatrach and Anadarko representatives, thus gaining an insight into our Roxanne Decyk customers concerns.
b c Ren Mdori Ayman Asfari How do we deal with potential conictsofinterest?
Maroun Semaan b Marwan Chedid Processes and procedures are in place that require Directors to identify and declare actual or potential conicts of interest, whether Andy Inglis matter-specic or situational.
These notications are required to be made by the Director concerned prior to, or at, a Board meeting.
Tim Weller AllDirectors have a duty to update the whole Board of any changes.
The Board may authorise potential conicts which can be limited in a Chairman.
b scope, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Ren Mdori and Marwan Chedid joined the Board on 19 January 2012. c During the year, all conict management procedures were adhered Ren Mdori was unable to attend one meeting due to a longstanding commitment arranged prior to his appointment to the Board.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 71 Our selection process Do the Directors have We have a formal, rigorous and transparent selection procedure deedsofindemnity?
The Nominations Committee is responsible for recommending new Directors to our Board.
Board size and composition are considered very carefully to ensure the correct During 2012 Petrofac provided indemnities to its Directors and balance of individuals, taking into account diversity and experience.
Ofcers in respect of liabilities which may be incurred as a result of Inaddition, individuals are made aware of the need to allocate their ofce, in accordance with our Articles of Association and to the sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities maximum extent permitted by Jersey law.
Care is taken to establish the existing commitments of insurance coverage in respect of legal action which may be brought allNon-executive Directors, particularly the Chairman.
Should a against the Directors and its ofcers.
Neither the Companys Directors external commitments change after appointment, they are indemnities nor insurance would provide any cover where a Director required to make me and the Board aware as soon as practicable or officer was found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
sothat we can consider any potential conict of interest, time commitment challenge or residency status conict.
A process will be implemented to allow the Board to conduct a review of interests and Effectiveness conicts at the end of each year.
A report on the activities of the Nominations Committee is set out on pages 76 and 77.
How do we get the best out Director development and training The UK Code puts significant emphasis on director development and ofourBoard?
training, a governance development which I fully support.
We do not, however, run an extensive programme of one size ts all director We invest time and effort in appointing our Directors and arranging training, but instead encourage all Directors to pursue an individually Board meetings so it would be disappointing if we did not get the tailored development programme during the year.
We maintain a best out of our Board.
I believe that the Board must operate in an record of each Directors training and development, which I review atmosphere of mutual trust and respect in order to be effective, and during the evaluation process and, over the course of this year, Itherefore encourage Directors to be open and forthright.
As well as over300 hours were recorded.
This comprised a mixture of formal encouraging the right culture within the boardroom, Directors must seminars led by external advisors: ofce and site visits: and health bepractically supported to enable them to engage fully with the andsafety training.
As might be expected, Non-executive Directors Company and allow them to make the best possible contribution.
undertake a higher number of external seminars than their executive Ioutline below these practical measures: colleagues, as these frequently focus on general governance developments: whilst Executive Directors will complete more ofce Information provided and site visits and health and safety training, as such activities fall We spend considerable time developing the agenda for each of our within senior managements day-to-day remit.
Nevertheless, almost scheduled Board meetings.
There are a number of standing items 10% of training time recorded by our Non-executive Directors and various matters, such as the forthcoming years budget or wasspent meeting senior executives across the Group, thus HSSEIA plan, which are brought to the Board on the basis of a demonstrating their commitment to understanding the business.
However, at least half of any Board During 2012 all Directors received anti-bribery and corruption training, meeting agenda is devoted to strategic and non-recurring items, plus either by an e-learning module or in face-to-face sessions with the specic project and investment related opportunities.
I believe that Group Head of Compliance.
In 2013, we plan to provide the Board taking this tailored approach encourages our Board to engage more with a limited number of group training sessions, which will include effectively.
As noted on page 73, time was spent during the year theDiversity and Inclusion training which is being rolled-out across improving board paper content and focus, as well-written papers theGroup.
facilitate constructive debate and challenge.
As recommended by the UK Code and as part of our commitment to best practice, we ensure My own training programme included governance seminars, papers are dispatched in a timely manner, usually one week prior includingthe ABI investment conference: a visit to our growing toeach meeting.
During 2012, we moved to providing papers operations in Mexico: a visit to our Laggan-Tormore site in Shetland: electronically through a dedicated application.
We believe this method and, following the completion of an offshore safety training course in of delivery is more secure and also reduces the environmental impact.
Aberdeen, Tim Weller and I were able to join a visit by the Group Chief We also provide additional information via this portal, which gives our Executive, the Managing Director of OPO and the Group Director of Directors easy and instant access to a useful resource bank, which I HSSEIA to the Kittiwake installation in the North Sea, UK.
This gave believe is of particular importance given our geographical spread.
me the opportunity to see our commitments tosafety and operational When telephonic Board meetings are held, the Secretary to the Board excellence in practice, view the assets in operation, meet some of our ensures that papers are circulated electronically, generally at least 24 offshore employees and spend time with customers.
I also attended hours prior to the meeting.
the Companys annual safety seminar, asnoted on page 28, which is attended by our senior operational employees.
This gave me a good insight into Petrofacs culture onsafety.
The Board recognises that a Directors development goes beyond formal and informal training sessions.
For that reason, the Board was happy to support Tim Wellers forthcoming appointment to the board of G4S plc.
72 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Corporate governance report continued Our induction programme Ren Mdori and Marwan Chedid both joined the Board in January 2012.
Each were provided with an individually tailored induction programme to account for their differing requirements and needs, details of which are set out below: Name and position Strengths Focus areas Induction programme Ren Mdori Experience as chief To increase Rens knowledge Ren attended a formal presentation led by Non-executive Director nancialofcer within a of Petrofac and assist him Freshelds on the role and responsibilities of a majorUK-listed entity and inpreparing for his role as UK-listed company director this is compulsory asanon-executive director amember of the Audit, for all our new Directors.
He visited our ofces in London, Aberdeen, Woking and Sharjah as well as attending site visits in both Algeria with the full Board and the ASAB eld in Abu Dhabi.
These visits allowed him the opportunity to meet senior operational management, key functional heads of the Group and new graduates.
Marwan Chedid 20 years of experience To increase Marwans Marwan attended the Freshelds seminar noted Chief Executive, ECOM withthe Company.
understanding of the role above.
Freshelds and JPMorgan Cazenove also Promotedfrom within ofadirector within a UKprovided him with an individual training session Petrofacs Onshore listedentity.
on disclosure obligation, in Sharjah.
Marwan attended the London Business Schools Directors Forum during the first half of 2012.
This provided him the opportunity to work with leading gures from other companies boards and professional advisers, with the aim of developing his boardroom skills through role-play and sharing best practice.
Evaluation of Board effectiveness At the end of 2012, I conducted a further evaluation process on the Whilst I believe that our Board should continuously endeavour to same basis as last year.
The Secretary to the Board and I collated the improve its effectiveness, at the end of 2011 and start of 2012, results of these interviews into a report and this was presented to the Icarried out one-to-one interviews with each Director using a set Board in February 2013.
The outcome of this work will be presented ofpre-dened questions.
These questions focused on the themes in next years report.
We plan to carry out an externally facilitated identied during previous evaluations, such as strategy, risk, Board evaluation, in accordance with the UK Code, during 2013. succession planning and governance, and sought to address any Therecommendations, actions and progress from recent evaluations outstanding issues whilst highlighting areas for Board performance are shown in the table opposite.
My aim was to address the activities and responsibilities of the Board as well as the Board committees.
Each interview resulted As a result of the recent evaluations, I can confirm that the in an open conversation, which gave sufficient time for matters of performance of each Director was effective during the year and can concern to be raised and suggested areas of development to be conclude that the control and leadership required for a listed company discussed.
My own appraisal was conducted by Rijnhard van Tets, is provided by the Board as a whole.
Rijnhard did this through a series of interviews with our Executive and Non-executive Directors before meeting with me to present feedback.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 73 Progress report on evaluation recommendations from both the external review in 2010 and the internal review in 2011: Action Details Progress More strategic discussion.
The Board continues to engage in the development of its strategic Successful Greater regard to competitive environment management and the time spent on strategy over the last three years has when discussing strategy.
changed as follows: 2010: 15% 2011: 32% 2012: 31% The increase is as a result of the introduction of a dedicated strategy day inMay, a half day in December as well as regular strategic deep dive presentations at other Board meetings.
In addition, greater focus has been given to execution, with additional strategic reviews providing a deeper understanding of the Groups operations and performance.
Board papers relating to proposed projects are also now required to explain the strategic rationale for the matter under consideration.
Revisit the Groups delegated authorities, A new delegated authority matrix was approved by our Board in Successful sothe Board uses its time more effectively.
Greater financial detail requested to permit Building on work achieved to date, we have increased the financial Successful better consideration of the Groups capital information presented in the Groups five-year plans.
This has allowed the demands, future nancing plans and Board toparticipate in strategy and treasury related discussions in a more financial structures.
Improvement to board papers, As a result of discussions held to establish the key considerations of the Successful includingdelivery.
Directors, it was agreed that board papers should provide a pertinent summary of the matters under consideration, including strategic rationale, associated risks and financial exposure.
A board paper portal was also introduced during the year to facilitate the delivery of board materials.
Articulate our risk appetite and significant The 2011 evaluation highlighted the requirement for increased scrutiny of Ongoing risks more effectively.
risks that prevent strategic delivery.
A review of the Groups risk framework, undertaken by the Board Risk Committee, resulted in the Board having greater clarity about the Groups enterprise risk prole.
It has since sought todevelop metrics to monitor trends for 13 areas of enterprise risk and the Board Risk Committee will review these metrics regularly.
Further detail is shown onpage 84.
Focus more on succession planning.
In 2011, considerable time was spent on the practical application of Board Ongoing succession planning following the appointment of a new Chairman and twonew Directors.
Little time was given to wider succession planning, although the Nominations Committee broadened its remit from Board succession to the management layer below the Board.
During 2012, executive succession planning was discussed at a granular level.
Inaddition, reports have been submitted to the Nominations Committee covering succession planning and talent management initiatives for the entireorganisation, such that the time spenton overall succession planning withinthe Nominations Committee has increased from 27% in 2011 to over 35%in2012.
The development of crisis management planning and the Boards role In progress insuch plans is seen as extremely important.
Specic and targeted traininginitiatives are planned to ensure Directors are fully aware of .
Following the appointment of a new Group Head of External Affairs In progress during2012, werecognise that there is an opportunity to reinforce the communication ofour brand and the Groups differentiated offering.
Work with business development teams is progressing so that stakeholders viewsrelating topotential opportunities can be fully understood.
