Audit Committee Report For the year ended 31 December 2012 Dear Shareholder Governance processes the Chief Financial officer to discuss any As Chairman of the Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee during issues.
Following each meeting, the the Committee, I am pleased to introduce the year were Sir Malcolm Field Chairman Committee Chairman reports the findings the Committees report for 2012. of the Committee, Dr Graham Birch and of the meeting to the Board, focusing on Mr Charles McVeigh.
Ms Rachel English was matters where the Committee considers that During recent years, the business has appointed as a member of the Committee action or improvement is required: making grown from a single-mine operation to a on 28 March 2012.
Ms English is a chartered recommendations as appropriate.
The complex multi-mine Group, with a successful accountant, having qualied with Coopers & Company Secretary acts as Secretary to record of developing its projects in-house.
Lybrand, and is considered by the Company the Committee.
The Board is committed to growing the as having the requisite recent and relevant business further by continuing with the financial experience.
She also brings a wealth The Committee works closely with the Groups active exploration programme at of experience to the Committee, including Companys Risk Committee, identifying or near to its existing processing facilities specialist expertise in investment appraisal financial risks and developing mechanisms and through the construction and continued and project finance.
for avoiding or mitigating these risks.
development of the POX Hub in order to deliver strong growth.
Sir Malcolm Field and Mr Charles McVeigh Deloitte LLP Deloitte has been the are also considered by the Company as being external auditor since the Companys merger The Board recognises that this members with requisite recent and relevant with Aricom plc and its move to the Main necessitates a sophisticated and robust financial experience due to their past Board of the London Stock Exchange in April control framework and it is the role of the employment in finance or comparable 2009.
The Committee has noted the corporate Committee together with the Board and the experience in corporate activities.
Dr Graham governance developments during the year Risk Committee to ensure that the Groups Birchs background in commodity fund including the new provisions on audit governance, risk management and financial management and his PhD in Mining Geology tendering.
The Committee notes that it will reporting processes continue to evolve enable him to bring a broad level of mining be required to tender the audit prior to 2019 and can provide the requisite assurance expertise to the Committees deliberations.
but does not consider it necessary to framework.
This Report details the work undertake a tender process for the Groups undertaken by the Committee during the The Committee met four times during the external auditor at the current time.
These year to ensure that the Group maintains year, with meetings scheduled to coincide developments will be monitored and, until sound internal control systems and can with the Groups financial reporting and audit a decision is made to tender the audit, ensure the integrity of its financial statements.
These were also attended, by invitation the Committee will evaluate the performance The Committee is satisfied that the Board for all or part of the meeting, by the Companys of Deloitte, as the Companys external maintains satisfactory internal controls.
Chairman, the Chief Executive officer, the auditor, each year.
Chief Financial officer, the Internal Auditor and Group Head Financial Reporting.
The This years Annual General Meeting of the external auditor was present at each meeting Company will be held on 11 June 2013 enabling the Committee to understand better during which I will be pleased to answer any the factors relevant to the auditors when questions about the work of the Committee.
The audit partner briefs the Chairman on Sir Malcolm Field key matters in advance of the meetings.
Audit Committee Chairman The Chairman also meets on a regular 27 March 2013 basis with the Company Chairman and 112 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Summary of activities undertaken growth of the Group.
This is a continuation of The Group Head of Internal Audit attends by the Committee during the year the work of the Committee detailed in the 2011 each Committee meeting and has a direct and focus for 2013: Report to improve the Groups controls, and reporting line to the Chairman of the Financial reporting enhance the ow and quality of information Committee.
The Committee has approved At its meeting in March 2012, the Committee provided to executive management and additional resource for the internal audit reviewed the 2011 Annual Report and financial the Board.
This continues to be of enhanced function, which it considers appropriate statements for the year-ended 31 December focus for the Committee.
given the recent growth of the Group.
2011 and the related full year announcement before recommending them to the Board for In October, the Committee considered, During the year, the Committee received approval.
The Committee considered the amongst other matters, the 2012 audit plan presentations by the Group Head of Internal consistency of the accounting policies presented by Deloitte and in December, the Audit: these will now form a standing item on adopted and the application of accounting Committee received a report from Deloitte the agenda for all future Committee meetings.
standards, discussing any issues with on the nine month interim audit.
For the first executive management and the external time this included a report from a South In 2012, the internal audit function completed auditor.
Particular areas of focus for the African rm of mining experts, who had been reviews of inventory and expenditures, xed Committee were: appointed by the external auditor to assist assets and treasury, with assistance provided them with certain aspects of the year-end to the executive on other matters, as required.
The carrying value and impairment testing audit.
This included procedures in respect of The 2013 internal audit plan, which has been of the Groups mining assets: deferred stripping, gold in circuit, the Groups approved by the Committee, will include an The measurement and valuation of long-term mining plan and stockpiles.
The audit of key business processes at both the inventory including: additional assessment by the mining experts sites and management companies.
adds further rigour into the Groups year-end i Deferred stripping: and audit process, providing valued assurance External auditor ii Stockpiles.
The Committee monitors the Groups policy on external audit which includes assessing The valuation of the Groups exploration Internal audit the objectivity, independence and effectives and evaluation assets: Following the resignation of the Group Head of the Companys external auditors.
During The going concern basis for preparing of Internal Audit in 2011, to accept another the year this included: the accounts.
position and pursue his career, the Committee 1.
Reviewing Deloittes fullment of the agreed took the opportunity to review the structure audit plan for the year ending 31 December At its August meeting, the Committee of the Groups internal audit function to ensure 2011, the quality of their audit findings and reviewed the 2012 half year accounts prior that it was adequately resourced, relevant to managements response: to recommending them to the Board for the size, complexity of the Group and provides approval.
During this process, the Committee the required level of assurance to the 2.
Reviewing Deloittes proposed audit fee sought to ensure that issues raised by Deloitte Committee.
The Committee also considered for the 2012 interim and year-end audits during the 2011 year-end audit had been whether to outsource the internal audit and, after consideration, recommending progressed and these matters continue to be function and following consideration with the these to the Board for approval: monitored by the Committee at each meeting executive management concluded that it was with progress tracked.
Actions include the appropriate to retain an in-house internal audit development of more sophisticated IT and function.
As a consequence a selection and treasury strategies to accommodate expected recruitment process was undertaken and a new Group Head of Internal Audit was appointed during the year.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 113 Audit Committee Report continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 3.
Considering Deloittes publication entitled obtained from the Company Secretary.
effectiveness of the Groups system of Brieng on audit matters published in The Committee approved the appointment internal control.
Following this review, the September 2012 which explains the key on the basis that it was in accordance with the Committee considers the internal controls concepts behind the Deloitte Audit Companys policy and that Deloitte would be of the Group to have operated effectively methodology including audit objectives the most appropriate rm to prepare the throughout 2012 and up to the date of this and materiality: requisite working capital report within the time report.
The Committee has also considered available and for a reasonable fee given their and reviewed the Groups financial risks and 4.
Reviewing Deloittes 2012 Audit detailed knowledge of the Group, including the mitigating action being taken to address Transparency Report in respect of the IRC, of whom they are also the external these and has reported its findings to the year ended 31 May 2012.
This work is typically performed by Risk Committee.
The system of controls is Deloittes approach to ensuring audit the external auditor.
Accordingly, in the opinion designed to manage, but may not eliminate, quality, robust governance and ethics, of the Committee, the independence and the risks of failure to achieve the Groups by reference to the Professional Oversight objectivity of Deloitte as external auditors to objectives.
Oversight is provided by the Board of the Financial Reporting Council: the Company, has not been impaired by their Executive Committee, which meets and work in this respect.
regularly to review the results of the 5.
Reviewing and monitoring the Groups operations.
performance and effectiveness of A breakdown of non-audit fees paid in For IRC, Petropavlovsk operates controls Deloitte against the 2012 year-end 2012 is set out in note 7 on page 143 of this over the inclusion of its financial data but planning report.
places reliance upon the systems of internal control operating within IRC and the In addition, the Committee meets separately Having considered the above issues, the obligations upon IRCs Board relating on a regular basis with the auditors, without Committee is satisfied that Deloitte remain to the effectiveness of its own systems.
independent and objective and that they remain effective in their duties.
The The Board and the Committee pay careful The Committee also approved the Committee has therefore recommended attention to ensuring that all documents appointment of Deloitte as reporting their re-appointment as external auditor of released by the Group and the Company, accountants on the proposed issue of shares the Company to the Board.
including the Annual Report and Financial by IRC, the Companys 63.13% owned Hong Statements, present an accurate, balanced Kong Listed subsidiary.
The proposed Assurance financial and internal controls and understandable assessment of the transaction was announced on 17 January and risk management Group and the Companys prospects.
2013 and following the issue of a Circular to The Committee operates within the following Shareholders on 18 February 2013, was assurance framework established by the Internal controls approved by shareholders at a general Board.
The Board has delegated authority The framework for the Companys internal meeting held on 7 March 2013.
The fees to the Risk, HSE and Executive Committees control system is documented in a payable to Deloitte in this respect during 2012 in addition to the Audit Committee, details Governance and Control Policy and were US$570,000.
Deloittes appointment as of which are as follows.
Procedures Manual the GCCP which reporting accountants was in accordance with has been approved by the Board and the The Board which receives advice from the Companys policy on the provision of audit Audit Committee.
The GCCP is reviewed the Audit, Risk and HSE Committees and non-audit services, a copy of which can on a regular basis.
has overall responsibility for the system be located on the Companys website or of internal control and risk management in the Group.
On behalf of the Board the Committee has considered the 114 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Some key features of the internal control The approval of the Audit Committee system are: is sought to all key judgements made in preparation of the interim and A dened management structure with annual accounts.
There is a clear dened delegation of authorities, which Risk management covers all expenditure: The Company has adopted a formal risk Board approval of a detailed annual management framework with the Board budget, with monthly re-forecasts being having ultimate responsibility for setting the made subsequently: Groups risk appetite and the Executive Committee having responsibility for on-going Formal review by the Executive Committee risk review and management.
The Board has of detailed monthly management accounts delegated authority to the Risk Committee.
including variance analysis against the The Committee retains responsibility for approved annual budget, a copy of which is reviewing financial risks, reporting its findings provided to the Board following this review: and recommendations to the Risk Committee.
Appropriate segregation of duties The Report of the Risk Committee which throughout the Group, in particular summarises the risk management framework, separating the purchasing and ordering together with details of the principal risks of the function from the processing and payments Group, is on pages 66 to 77 of this Report.
function: Overview A centrally directed treasury function which As a result of the Committees work during manages the Companys cash and debt on the year, the Committee has concluded that a daily basis: it has acted in accordance with its terms A Group internal audit function performing of reference.
a programme of audits throughout the year: Review of Group-wide risks by the Executive Committee and financial risks by the Audit Committee.
These Committees report through to the Risk Committee on all significant risks for their consideration: Specic approval procedures have been established for approval of all related party transactions.
A Committee of independent Non-Executive Directors approves all significant related party transactions as appropriate and a schedule of all of these transactions is presented to the Board for formal approval: and Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 115 Financial St atements During 2012, the Group continued to generate strong operating cash ows to support the development of core projects, including the POX Hub.
Andrey Maruta Chief Financial officer 116 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements The Pokrovskiy mine The Groups first mine which has produced more than 1.75Moz of gold to date.
Pokrovskiy is drawing to the end of its mine life but is being converted into the POX Hub.
