Corporate Governance Report Letter from the Chairman of the Company and Nomination Committee Chairman For the year ended 31 December 2012 Dear Shareholder Maruta as Chief Financial officer on 13 April We met as a Board, on seven scheduled In my Chairmans statement I summarised 2012 following the departure of Mr Brian Egan.
Further Board the operational performance of the Group Mr Maruta previously held the main Board meetings were held regarding the proposed during 2012 and the outlook for 2013, which is position of Finance Director Russia.
I would issue of new shares by IRC, the Groups due to be a transformational year for the Group, like to thank Brian for his substantial 63.13% owned Hong Kong listed subsidiary with the nalisation of our POX Hub due to be contribution to Petropavlovsk.
There were no to two new investors, for which this Company commissioned in Q1 2014.
I also referred to the other changes to the Board during the year.
sought approval from our shareholders at growth of the Group not only that we achieved a general meeting held on 7 March 2013. our tenth consecutive year of increased Diversity We also held additional meetings to deal with gold production during 2012, but also our Whilst Ms Englishs appointment was based matters of a routine or administrative nature.
Alongside this on her skills, experience and knowledge, her We again held a separate dedicated growth, the Board has developed a corporate appointment has brought more diversity to the strategy meeting in November which was governance framework to ensure we act Board.
We, as a Board still consider that it is attended by all of the Directors together with responsibly and with accountability at all times.
not appropriate to set an aspirational target for members of the Executive Committee and The Board believes that good governance is the percentage of women that we aim to have other senior executives, and which is now a fundamental to the success of the Company on our Board.
Indeed, we wish to continue to regular xture of the Boards annual calendar.
and to our relationship with our shareholders.
appoint the best candidate available to us for I discuss matters on a regular basis with both any particular role.
I am pleased to confirm the Executive Directors and Non-Executive I am pleased to discuss more fully the that our Board and our Executive Committee Directors.
During the year I held separate work and operation of the Board and the are now comprised of 15% and 20% of meetings with the Non-Executive Directors, corporate governance framework within women respectively.
Of further note is the as did my colleague Dr Graham Birch, in his which we operate.
significant increase of women employed within capacity as Senior Independent Director.
the Group in managerial positions, from 89 in Board changes 2010 to 197 in 2012, particularly given that the We, as a Board, are responsible for Following the appointment of four Executive mining sector has historically been a male the determination and monitoring of the Directors and one Non-Executive Director dominated environment.
Companys strategic aims, budgets, in 2011, 2012 was a year of further change major items of capital expenditure and senior for the Petropavlovsk Board.
The Board It is also pleasing to report that the Groups appointments, the direction and control of sought to strengthen the composition of training college actively encourages women the Company and the management of the the Board further by appointing an additional to consider careers within the mining sector, capital structure.
We seek to ensure that the Non-Executive Director: this was in part undertaking recruitment initiatives aimed at necessary financial and human resources led by succession planning issues.
The encouraging women to consider careers in are, and will continue to be, in place to enable Nomination Committee led the appointment male dominated professions.
See page 58 the Company to meet its objectives.
process on behalf of the Board working for further information.
As a result of this process, I was pleased to announce The Board now comprises of, myself as the appointment of Ms Rachel English as Chairman, four Executive Directors and a Non-Executive Director with effect from seven Non-Executive Directors, all of whom 28 March 2012.
Ms English, a chartered are considered to be independent in character accountant, has brought a wealth of and judgement and free from any business experience that she has amassed in the or other relationship which could materially global energy sector, in particular her interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
first-hand experience of developing projects Dr Pavel Maslovskiy, the Companys former in challenging business environments into longstanding Chief Executive and one of its profitable enterprises.
I was also pleased founding members, was appointed as the to announce the appointment of Mr Andrey Companys Honorary President in December 2011, and continues to provide valued advice to the Company.
The Board and I remain grateful to Dr Maslovskiy for his continued support.
86 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements We have adopted a formal schedule of matters Committee meetings including minutes of English.
Her appointment was recommended reserved for the Boards decision, a copy of these meetings.
All Directors are encouraged to the Board on merit and against objective which can be found at www.
to make further enquiries, as they feel criteria.
Care was taken to ascertain that In addition to the standard agenda items, the appropriate, of the Executive Directors or Ms English would have sufficient time Board considered the following matters during management.
The 2012 Board evaluation also available to meet her Board and Committee the year: asked Directors to identify areas where they responsibilities before any formal thought that they or the Board would benefit recommendation was made to the Board for the transaction, referred to on page 86 from further training.
These issues will receive her appointment and her letter of appointment regarding the issue of new shares by IRC, focus during 2013. details the expected time commitment.
No which included the issue by the Company Director has a notice period of more than of a Circular to shareholders: Board Committees are provided with sufficient one year.
the Groups hedging arrangements: resources and the power to obtain such additional support and professional advice Ms English met with the majority of the the Companys five year strategic and as they may require.
All Directors have access Directors, both Executive and Non-Executive, mining plan: and to the services of a  as part of the selection process.
Her tailored the Groups on-going compliance with the and experienced Company Secretary, who is induction programme included further Bribery Act 2010, which is monitored by the responsible for information ows to the Board meetings with certain of the Executive Anti-Bribery Committee, chaired by myself, and its Committees and between senior Directors and with senior management and as Company Chairman.
management and Non-Executive Directors, the provision of detailed information on the facilitating induction and assisting with Group.
Ms English also held regular scheduled Professional development and professional development as required, meetings with Mr Andrey Maruta, Chief information ensuring compliance with Board procedure Financial officer, to increase her knowledge I ensure that all Directors continually update and applicable laws and regulation.
of specic financial matters relating to the their skills and knowledge, and develop the Group, to enable her to contribute effectively familiarity with the Companys operations There is an agreed procedure for Directors as a member of the Audit Committee.
She needed to full their role on both the Board and to take independent professional advice has also met separately with the Companys any Committees.
The Non-Executive Directors if considered necessary to discharge their external audit partner.
are invited, at the Companys expense, to responsibilities as Directors, and at the attend conferences and seminars on the Companys expense.
In addition, the Nomination Committee mining industry.
reviewed succession planning for the Nomination Committee Executive Directors and for members of the The Board is supplied with regular and timely I currently Chair the Nomination Committee, Executive Committee and this still remains information in a form, and of a quality, that assisted by my fellow Directors Sir Malcolm a key focus for the Nomination Committee.
enables it to discharge its duties.
The Directors Field, Mr Charles McVeigh and Dr Graham As part of its remit, the Nomination Committee receive reports, in advance of each Board Birch as members of the Committee.
also reviewed the appointment of each meeting, on the Groups operations, updates During the year the Nomination Committee Director prior to that Director seeking on financial matters, investor relations and considered the selection and appointment of re-election at the forthcoming Annual General briengs on regulatory and corporate an additional Non-Executive Director, assisted Meeting and was pleased to recommend the governance issues.
The Directors also receive in this search by external consultants, which re-election of all Directors to the Board.
copies of papers considered at Executive culminated in the appointment of Ms Rachel Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 87 Corporate Governance Report continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 The Board of Directors Director Title Date of appointment Date of resignation Peter Hambro Chairman 20 December 2001 Sergey Ermolenko Chief Executive officer 20 December 2011 Andrey Maruta Chief Financial officer 13 April 2012 Finance Director Russia 4 January 2011 Brian Egan Chief Financial officer 22 April 2009 13 April 2012 Alya Samokhvalova Strategic Director Group Head of 4 January 2011 External Communications Martin Smith Deputy Chief Executive 4 January 2011 Graham Birch Senior Independent Director 4 January 2011 Non-Executive Director 12 February 2010 Sir Malcolm Field Non-Executive Director 22 April 2009 Lord Charles Guthrie Non-Executive Director 22 January 2008 Sir Roderic Lyne Non-Executive Director 22 April 2009 Charles McVeigh III Non-Executive Director 25 June 2009 David Humphreys Non-Executive Director 24 August 2011 Rachel English Non-Executive Director 28 March 2012 The Board is satisfied that all Directors have sufficient time to devote to their roles and that given the composition of the Board it is not placing undue reliance on key individuals.
The following table illustrates the collectives business experience held by Board Directors, outside that acquired at Petropavlovsk: Experience on PLC Boards Finance Fund Management City Banking Diplomatic Political Metals & Mining 0123456 Biographies of the Directors, including details of their skills and experience, are provided under Board of Directors on pages 78 to 79.
88 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements UK Corporate Governance Code Anti-Bribery Committee Performance evaluation compliance The Board has adopted a zero-tolerance The 2012 evaluation of the Board and its The Board can report that, with one exception, approach to corruption and bribery issues.
Committees has been undertaken internally the Company is currently in compliance with The Board established an Anti-Bribery using a condential questionnaire with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Committee in the latter part of 2010, for which directors identifying opportunities for Code which was published by the Financial I act as Chairman.
The process was led by Reporting Council in June 2010. also comprises of three Executive Directors, Dr Graham Birch, as Senior Independent two members of the Executive Committee Director.
The questionnaire covered issues This one exception concerns my position and the Company Secretary.
such as effectiveness of the Board and as Chairman of the Company.
I was not corporate governance and included a considered as independent under the term The Company has adopted policies and detailed section on the evaluation of each of of the Code at the date of my appointment procedures and we have provided training on the Boards Committees.
The questionnaire nor do I satisfy the required independent the Bribery Act 2010 to our employees in both also covered the individual performance of criteria now.
The responses of the Directors were collated into a report by the However, the Board is satisfied that my In addition, the Anti-Bribery Committee Company Secretary.
I have discussed the position as Chairman is clearly separated has approved a Code of Business Conduct outcome of the evaluation with Dr Birch, who from that of Mr Sergey Ermolenko, and Ethics, a copy of which has been provided has formally reported to the Board.
to our employees within Russia.
The Code identied for improvement included the format of Business Conduct and Ethics details, of reporting to the Board and the preference The division of responsibilities between my amongst other matters, an employees by some of the Non-Executive Directors to role of Chairman, and that of Mr Ermolenkos obligation to comply with all applicable laws have more contact with senior management, role of Chief Executive officer and Mr Martin and legislation, the Groups policy on potential which given the remote location of the Groups Smiths role of Deputy Chief Executive with conicts of interest, gifts and hospitality and operations is somewhat complex.
However, clear and well dened reporting lines, have protection of the Groups assets.
Importantly, this is one of the issues that I and the Board been set out in writing and agreed by it sets out the procedures which employees will address during 2013.
A copy of the document is are expected to follow if they are in any doubt although recognising several areas where available on the Companys website at about any issue.
All employees are required improvements can be made, and which will www.
to acknowledge that they have received a be addressed as appropriate during 2013, copy of the Code of Business Conduct and concluded that the Board and its My primary role as Chairman is to provide Ethics and confirm that they will act in Committees are operating effectively.
leadership to the Board, necessary to promote compliance with such policy.
An English and the success of the Company and create value Russian version of this code can be located The Board intends to undertake its Board for shareholders in the long term, whilst on the Companys website or can be evaluation during 2013 using an external ensuring that sound effective corporate requested from the Company Secretary.
assessor, in accordance with the Code.
governance practices are embedded in the This process will again be led by Dr Birch Group and in its decision making processes.
The Anti-Bribery Committee reports to the and the conclusion thereof will be included Board at each meeting.
in the 2013 Corporate Governance Report.
The Company complied, in all other respects, with the Code during 2012.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 89 Corporate Governance Report continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 Shareholder engagement Individual shareholders are equally as Annual re-election of directors We delivered on our communication strategy important to us as are our institutional In accordance with the requirements of in 2012 by: shareholders and we encourage as many the Code, all of the Directors will submit shareholders as possible to attend the themselves for annual re-election at the Maintaining an active dialogue with our Companys Annual General Meeting during 2013 Annual General Meeting.
shareholders, with members of the which shareholders are given the opportunity Executive meeting, with approximately to discuss any matters with the Board.
The re-election of each of the Directors has 200 individual investor companies Shareholders are kindly asked to read the been reviewed by the Nomination Committee.
accompanying notes to the Notice of Annual The Board recommends that shareholders The Executive Directors attended investor General Meeting to ensure that they have the vote in favour of the resolutions to elect or conferences in Europe, USA and Asia, correct documentation with them should they re-elect all of the Directors of the Company including London and Moscow.
wish to attend the meeting on 11 June 2013. and the reasons for this recommendation Shareholders are also welcome to contact our are set out in the letter with the Notice of the In June, the Group took a small group of Investor Relations Department based at our Annual General Meeting.
investors and analysts to visit the Pioneer, registered ofce in London during the year with Malomir, Albyn and Pokrovskiy mines and any specic queries regarding the Company.
Biographical details of all Directors are the pilot test POX plant in Blagoveschensk.
The visits were supplemented by Copies of the presentations made to workshops and presentations which were shareholders can be found on our website You should be aware that I, as Chairman, given by the executive management and at www.
Our website is am also a non-executive chairman of key operational management.
regularly updated and contains a wide range Sundeala Limited, Peter Hambro Limited In July, the Executive Directors together of information about the Group.
We welcome and Tidal Transit Limited, which are all family with the Head of the Groups Research & comments from shareholders on its content.
companies and I am a partner in Durrington Development and representatives from I ensure that the views of shareholders are Farm Partnership.
I am a Director of various Outotec, our experienced partner, made a communicated to the Board as a whole.
Any changes presentation to analysts and investors on to these commitments are reported to the progress of the construction of the POX At the Companys 2013 AGM, Sir Malcolm the Board.
I am informed that the Board Hub.
This event was webcast and can be Field, Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration is satisfied that my other significant accessed at www.
Committees, Sir Roderic Lyne, Chairman of commitments do not restrict me from the HSE Committee and Lord Guthrie, carrying out my duties effectively.
Conference calls were held for investors Chairman of the Risk Committee will be and analysts following the Companys full available to answer any matters relating to The following section of this Corporate year and half year results announcements.
I will, of course, be happy Governance Report provides further Dr Graham Birch, our Senior Independent to answer any questions relating to the work explanation of the Companys Board Director, continued to provide an of the Nomination Committee.
All Board and Committee structure.
independent access point for our Directors who are able to attend will be institutional shareholders to whom he available, as usual, to meet with shareholders Peter Hambro is well known.
after the meeting to discuss any issues.
Chairman 27 March 2013 Sir Malcolm Field, Remuneration Committee Chairman and the Company Secretary entered into a dialogue with corporate governance bodies and institutional shareholders regarding remuneration issues.
90 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Board and Committee structure Each Committee has written terms of reference which have been approved by the Board and are reviewed at least annually to ensure that they comply with the latest legal and regulatory requirements and reect best Audit Committee Remuneration Committee practice developments.
The current full 4 Independent 4 Independent Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors terms of reference of each Committee may be obtained from the investor section of the Companys website at www.
net or from the Company Secretary.
HSE Committee Board Nomination Committee 3 Independent Executive Chairman Company Chairman Non-Executive Directors 4 Executive Directors 3 Independent 2 Executive Directors 7 Independent NonNon-Executive Directors Executive Directors Anti-Bribery Committee Risk Committee Company Chairman 4 Independent 3 Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors 2 ExCo Members & 1 Executive Director Company Secretary Strategic Committee Technical Committee Responsible for evaluation Responsible for evaluation Executive Committee of projects from a strategic of projects from a technical perspective perspective Both Committees working together Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 91 Corporate Governance Report continued For the year ended 31 December 2012 Committee membership and attendance during the year Current membership of Board Members of these Committees, membership and attendance at meetings during the year is shown in the table below.
2 Ms Rachel English was appointed as a Director on 28 March 2012.
3 As detailed in the table, Directors who were not members of the Audit, Remuneration, HSE and Risk Committees may attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of that Committee.
4 Mr Brian Egan resigned as a Director and as Chief Financial officer on 13 April 2012.
5 Ms Rachel English did not attend the Board and the Audit Committee meeting held on 5 December 2012 due to sickness.
Sir Malcolm Field was unable to attend one Board meeting during the year due to a previous commitment.
Shareholders will be aware that the successful completion of the POX Hub is critical to the Groups future success.
As Chief Executive officer, the delivery of this project is one of Mr Ermolenkos key priorities.
Unfortunately this has resulted in Mr Ermolenkos absence from two scheduled Board meetings since his attendance at any meeting held in the UK, requires a considerable absence for Mr Ermolenko from this project and from managing the Groups mining operations given their location in the Far East Amur Region of Russia.
However, the Deputy Chief Executive, Mr Martin Smith, who works closely with Mr Ermolenko, has attended every Board meeting and reports to the Board on Mr Ermolenkos behalf when he is unable to attend, specically in respect of the Groups operational performance.
92 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Board and Board Committees The HSE Committee is responsible for Strategic Committee and The Board is responsible for the Groups establishing and reviewing the Groups health, Technical Committees system of corporate governance and is safety, environmental and community relations The Strategic and Technical Committees ultimately accountable for the Groups Sustainability strategy, evaluating the were established in 2011 to manage the activities, strategy, risk management and effectiveness of the Groups policies and more complex multi-mine business which financial performance.
The Board has systems for managing Sustainability issues the Group has transformed into.
established a number of Committees and and risks, and assessing the performance provides sufficient resources to enable of the Group with regard to the impact of The Strategic Committee is chaired by them to undertake their duties.
These are Sustainability decisions and actions.
Dr Alya Samokhvalova, Strategic Director, as follows: whilst the Technical Committee is chaired Further information on the Companys by Mr Martin Smith, Deputy Chief Executive.
Audit, Remuneration and Sustainability policies and performance may These Committees comprise of senior Risk Committees be found on pages 52 to 63. executives and operational management.
Reports from the Chairman of the Audit, The functions of the Strategic Committee are Remuneration and Risk Committees can be The Executive Committee to formulate annual and long-term budgets found on pages 112 to 115, 94 to 111 and 66 The Executive Committee comprises the and forecasts and to monitor performance to 77 respectively.
Company Chairman, the four Executive against these.
Whilst the Technical Committee Directors and the following four senior is responsible for providing technical analysis Nomination Committee Executives: of the Groups budgets, forecasts and For information on the work and membership investment plans.
Both Committees report Dmitri Chekashkin, Group Head Precious of the Nomination Committee during the year to the Executive Committee, with reports on Metals Operations & First Deputy of General see pages 87 and 90. their work being made to the Board by the Director of Management Company Committee Chairman at each Board meeting.
Petropavlovsk Russia : Health, Safety and Environmental The Committees work closely, providing Committee HSE Committee Alexei Maslovskiy, Business Development detailed analysis to the Executive Committee During the year, the Committee comprised of Manager: on proposed projects, exploration and mining Sir Roderic Lyne as Committee Chairman, plans.
During 2012, the Committees were Anna-Karolina Subczynska, Group Head Lord Guthrie, Dr David Humphreys, Mr Martin involved in the revision of the Groups five of Legal Affairs: Smith and Dr Alya Samokhvalova.
year Mining and Strategic Plan with detailed Andrei Tarasov, Deputy General Director presentations being made to the Board during of MC Petropavlovsk.
the strategy meeting held in November 2012 for consideration and discussion.
See page 55 for further information on the Executive Committee.
