Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Sustainability Management and Governance The Companys Board of Directors, Executive Managing and monitoring Structure for the monitoring Committee and key operational management HSE performance and reporting of Sustainability underpin the Companys strategic objective The Group is committed to a rigorous Performance data to continue to develop the Group sustainably approach to HSE issues and robust HSE and responsibly and operate in line with the management systems and accident or Groups values and commitments.
incident reporting procedures are in place.
All accidents or incidents are recorded.
05 01 Governance HSE performance data is submitted to the The Board is committed to high standards Executive Committee as a part of the Groups of corporate governance, believing this to be monthly operational report.
HSE performance fundamental to the success of the Company.
data is then further scrutinised by the HSE 04 02 Committee and by the Board.
All serious The Board of Directors and accidents and incidents are investigated.
HSE Committee 03 The Board has overall responsibility for Managing risk the system of internal control and risk The Group recognises that certain risks may management, including health, safety and pose a threat to its strategy and its sustainable 01 HSE Performance data is collected by environmental HSE risks.
To assist with values and commitments.
The Board and its key operational management this task, the Board appointed a HSE appointed Risk Committee have responsibility Committee at Board level to advise and for on-going risk review and management, 02 Data and summary reports are submitted report to the Board on sustainability matters, within a formal risk management framework.
to the CEO and Deputy CEO including: establishing and reviewing the HSE risks have been assigned their own Groups health, safety, environmental and 03 Data and summary reports are submitted by category within this framework in line with the the Deputy CEO to the Executive Committee community relations strategy, evaluating the importance the Group places on HSE matters.
and the HSE Committee effectiveness of the Groups policies and Human Resources risks, risks associated with systems for managing sustainability issues the recruitment and on-going management of 04 A summary is made to the Board of Directors and risks and assessing the performance people, are also assigned their own category.
of the Group with regard to the impact of 05 Any recommendations are given to key sustainability decisions and actions.
The HSE Directors remuneration operational management, which in turn is Committee meets regularly and operates The Board has appointed a Remuneration able to provide the Board with feedback to formal Terms of Reference, which may Committee consisting solely of Non-Executive be found on the Companys website, Directors to review the performance of the www.
Executive Directors and senior executives to determine their remuneration and conditions The Group holds an annual conference The Executive Committee of employment, paying due regard to the on occupational health and safety OH&S The Board has appointed an Executive interests of shareholders and the performance and environmental protection, attended Committee, consisting of both Executive of the Group, including HSE performance.
The aim Directors and key operational management, of the conference is to encourage the open and has delegated to this Committee the discussion of HSE issues, set targets for the The Department of Industrial Safety responsibility for overseeing the year ahead and build on the accident-reduction and Auditing implementation of the Groups strategy, methods taken during the previous year.
The Department of Industrial Safety and business targets and the decisions made at Auditing the Department of ISA was created Board level, including decisions made by the IRC within Management Company Petropavlovsk, HSE Committee.
The Executive Committee is IRC has separate HSE management the Groups centralised operating company, also responsible for reviewing internal control systems, details of which are included in to ensure that HSE measures, including and risk management, including identied IRCs 2012 Annual Report and on its website, occupational health and safety and HSE risks.
The Executive Committee meets environmental monitoring and permitting, are www.
regularly and operates to a formal set of Terms integrated across all of the Groups operations As such, data included within this report of Reference, which may be found on the and managed in accordance with the Groups excludes IRC.
Go to page 86 for the Corporate Governance Report See page 66 for the Report of the Risk Committee See page 94 for the Directors Remuneration Report Log on to www.
net to view Committee Terms of Reference Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 55
