Report of the Risk Committee Lord Guthrie Chairman of the Risk Committee Dear Shareholder, We held six meetings during the year.
development of the POX Hub in order to As Chairman of the Risk Committee These were also attended by invitation for all deliver strong growth.
The Committee the Committee, I would like to give you or part of any meeting by the Companys principally focuses on those risks that could an overview of the operation and scope Chairman and the Company Secretary.
The impact on our business and on the success of the Committee and report on its work over Chief Executive officer, the Chief Financial of this strategy.
Risks that could impact the the past year.
In addition, this report details officer, the Strategic Director and the Group business are considered in the following the principal risks relating to the Group, Head of Legal Affairs also attended by broad categories: how each risk has changed during the invitation for all or part of any meeting to Operational: year and the actions undertaken to mitigate present details of specic risks relating to their and manage these risks.
areas and to discuss mitigating actions being Financial: taken, with appropriate challenge provided by Health, Safety & Environmental: During 2012, Dr Graham Birch, Sir Roderic the Committee.
Lyne, Mr Martin Smith and Dr David Legal & Regulatory: Humphreys, were my colleagues on the Summary of activities undertaken Human Resources: Committee.
Dr Humphreys was appointed by the Committee during the year to the Committee on 1 January 2012, having and focus for 2013: Investor Relations & External attended two meetings of the Committee Review and assessment of risks Communications.
in 2011 as part of his induction to the Board.
during the year There were no changes to the membership As detailed in the Audit Committee Report, Responsibility for each category is delegated of the Committee during the year.
Membership the Board has ultimate responsibility for setting to a risk owner within the Executive is reviewed at regular intervals by me as the Groups risk appetite and the executive Committee.
Each risk owner is responsible for Chairman, the Nomination Committee and team have responsibility for on-going risk identifying risks in their risk area and the most the Company Chairman, who recommend review and management.
Whilst on-going significant risks are recorded in risk registers.
to the Board any new appointments to the review of risk management is delegated to The likelihood of occurrence and potential Risk Committee.
The Board considers the Executive Committee, the Board considers impact to the Group is assessed and that there are significant benets to having it appropriate to retain oversight of risks and mitigating controls, which seek to remove or Non-Executive Directors to provide oversight the effectiveness of the risk management minimise the likelihood and impact of the risks of risk issues and to challenge the risk framework.
This is achieved in a number before they occur, are implemented.
Risks are management process and, accordingly, of ways.
The Board has delegated authority then re-assessed once appropriate mitigation the Committee is comprised of a majority to this Committee to make recommendations is in place, although some risks by their nature of independent Non-Executive Directors to the Board on the Groups risk appetite.
cannot be mitigated by the Company with two members comprising a quorum.
Accordingly, the Committee is responsible for reviewing the identication, evaluation Consideration of principal risks is a standing Mr Martin Smith, Deputy Chief Executive and management of key risks, as well as for agenda item for Executive Committee and a member of the Executive Committee assessing the effectiveness of related controls meetings, with particular focus on new and monitoring the internal control systems.
acts as a conduit between the Committee and emerging risks.
At each of its meetings, In addition, the Committee is responsible and the executive management.
Based the Committee will review each risk area and for reinforcing risk management principles in Russia, Martin is involved in operational the corresponding risk register and will discuss throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee issues on a daily basis and has a clear any issues of concern with the relevant risk retains responsibility for reviewing financial understanding of the Groups operational owner who are periodically invited to attend risks and during the year the Committee risks.
His detailed knowledge and Committee meetings.
The Committee will received comprehensive information on understanding of the operational and probe and test the risk identication process these risks and their review.
health and safety issues relating to the and the efcacy of the risk management Group continue to provide invaluable input strategy with the various risk owners.
Over the last few years the Group has grown to the Committees deliberations.
The Committee also has responsibility for substantially into a complex multi-mine identifying the most significant Group-wide operation.
The Board is committed to growing risks from the individual risk registers.
the business further by continuing with the Groups active exploration programme at or Details of the Groups Principal Risks are near to its existing processing facilities and detailed in the table from page 68 to 77. through the construction and continued 66 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements 2012 Principal risks report Categorisation of risks and risk owners Principal risks relating to the Group The most significant risks that may have an Operational Financial adverse impact on the Groups reputation, Factors which impact output Financial risks include market, its ability to meet its strategic objectives and such as inadequate or failed credit and liquidity risks, the to deliver shareholder value are set out in the 1 2 internal processes, systems ability to raise finance or meet table from pages 68 to 77.
Summarised or people or external events loan covenants or foreign alongside each risk is a description of its exchange exposure etc Deputy Chief Executive potential impact on the Group.
Measures in Chief Financial officer place to manage or mitigate against each specic risk, where this is within the Groups control, are also described.
The additional information column provides a crossreference to further information, specically regarding the processes and procedures that are undertaken to mitigate these risks in Health, Safety and Legal and Regulatory order that the Group can successfully deliver Environmental HSE Risks that create potential for on its strategy.
Workplace hazards that could loss arising from uncertainty 3 4 result in liability for the Group due to legal actions or The risks set out in the table from page 68 or have an adverse impact uncertainty in the application to 77, should not be regarded as a complete on output of laws or regulations or comprehensive list of all potential risks Deputy Chief Executive Group Head of and uncertainties that the Group may face, Legal Affairs which could have an adverse impact on its performance.
Additional risks may also exist, that are currently unknown to the Group, and certain risks which are currently believed to be immaterial could turn out to be material and signicantly affect the Groups business Human Resources Investor Relations and and financial results.
Risks associated with the External Communications recruitment and on-going Includes risks such as poor 5 6 management of people management of market expectations and false Chief Executive officer investor perception Group Head of External Communications Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 67 Report of the Risk Committee continued 1 Operational risks Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Failure to complete various capital There can be no certainty that the POX Hub The design of the POX Hub was undertaken investment projects, including the can be delivered without any problems which in conjunction with Outotec, a leading execution of the commissioning of could involve capital expenditure overruns global provider of metals and minerals the Pressure Oxidation POX Hub.
and or delays to its commissioning.
in the commissioning of the POX Hub, or The Group is turning its Pokrovskiy mine inefficiency in the operation or the plant, may The Group retained leading global into a regional hub which will use POX have a potential impact on the Groups gold manufacturers for key items of equipment technology to extract gold from refractory production in 2014 and the cost of production for the POX plant.
ores, which constitute approximately and hence the profitability of the Group.
half of the Groups current gold Reserves.
Failure to deliver the POX Hub on budget may The Group has conducted test work on The POX Hub is due to be commissioned adversely affect the Groups financial results, the materials used, design parameters and in Q1 2014.
Although this is proven cash ow position and increase capital costs.
operating scenarios at its specialist R&D technology, it is new to the Group.
centres and the pilot POX plant.
All of the major equipment has now been delivered to the site and the installation is Additional information well underway and is on schedule.
The Further information on the work Group is intending to deploy leading conducted during 2012 and the external providers to install and test remainder of the installation in 2013, components.
Bulk construction work is prior to commissioning in Q1 2014 being conducted by the Groups specialist is detailed on pages 28 and 29. mine construction subsidiary, Kapstroi, which has extensive experience in delivering the Groups other mining projects to schedule.
The POX Hub will incorporate the existing facilities at the Pokrovskiy mine, reducing the amount of construction work to be undertaken.
During the commissioning phase, the Group can draw on its experience in commissioning the pilot POX plant.
Outotec will supervise and advise during the commissioning stage of the POX Hub.
The pilot POX plant runs on a similar system to the future POX Hub and is being used for staff training under the supervision of the Groups POX specialists and Outotec.
In addition, c. 90% of new JORC resources added in 2012 are non-refractory and are located at the Groups operational mines, and hence, are potentially suitable for processing in existing on-site resin-in-pulp plants or at the Groups heap-leach facilities and will therefore require minimum spend to develop them.
Change in risk before mitigation Change in risk after mitigation 68 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements The symbols indicate how the Company considers that these risks have changed since 2011, both before and after mitigation.
Increased risk No change in risk Decreased risk 1 Operational risks continued Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Delays in supply of, or failure The Group relies on the supply and availability Contingency plans are in place to address of equipment services.
of various services and equipment in order disruption to services.
to successfully run its operations.
For example, timely delivery of mining equipment and jaw The Group has high operational standards crushers, and their availability, are essential and maintenance of equipment is to the Groups ability to extract ore from the undertaken on a regular basis.
Equipment Groups assets to crush the mined ore prior is inspected at the beginning and end of to production.
Delay in the delivery or every shift and sufficient stocks of spare the failure of mining equipment, could parts are available.
signicantly delay production and impact the Groups profitability.
Equipment is ordered with adequate lead time in order to prevent delays in the delivery of equipment.
Change in risk before mitigation Change in risk after mitigation Factors which impact output, such The Groups assets are located in the Russian Heating plants at operational bases are as weather, equipment failures or Far East, which is an area that can be subject regularly maintained and operational lack of supplies.
Severe weather equipment is tted with cold weather conditions, such as cold temperatures in options, which could assist in ensuring winter, could have an adverse impact on that equipment does not fail as a result operations, including the delivery of supplies, of adverse weather conditions.
equipment and fuel, and exploration and extraction levels may fall as a result of such The Group aims to stock several months climatic factors.
of essential supplies at each site.
Change in risk before mitigation Change in risk after mitigation Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 69 Report of the Risk Committee continued 2 Financial risks Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation The Groups results of operations may A sustained downward movement in the The Executive Committee monitors the be affected by changes in gold and or market price for gold or iron ore may negatively position on a regular basis and consults with iron ore prices.
affect the Groups profitability and cash ow.
In February 2013, the Group entered into nancing contracts The market price of gold is volatile and is to sell a total of 399,000oz of gold over a affected by numerous factors which are period of 14 months ending in March 2014, beyond the Companys control.
These factors Additional information at an average price of US$1,663 oz.
These include world production levels, global Chief Financial Ofcers Statement nancing arrangements have increased the and regional economic and political events, on page 23. certainty of a significant proportion of the international economic trends, ination, Directors Report on page 80.
Groups cash ow whilst the Group continues currency exchange uctuations and the its capital investment in POX and the further political and economic conditions of major development of the Groups mining and gold-producing countries.
Additionally the processing operations at Malomir and Albyn.
purchase and sale of gold by central banks The Executive Committee will monitor the or other large holders or dealers may also position going forward and will consult with have an impact on the market price.
the Board as appropriate regarding any further hedging arrangements.
The Group aims to minimise overhead costs on an on-going basis and to operate and maintain low cost and efficient operations in order to optimise the Groups returns.
On 17 January 2013, IRC Limited, the Groups iron ore producing subsidiary, entered into conditional subscription agreements with two new investors for up to approximately US$238 million.
Assuming that total completion of the transaction occurs, the Groups interest in the share capital of IRC Limited would be reduced from 63.13% held at 31 December 2012 to 40.43% see note 35 on page 167.
The Groups exposure to the iron ore price would reduce accordingly.
Change in risk before mitigation Change in risk after mitigation Currency uctuations may affect The Company reports its results in US Dollars, The Group has adopted a policy of holding which is the currency in which gold is principally the Group.
an optimum amount of cash and monetary traded and, therefore, in which most of the assets or liabilities in non US Dollar Groups revenue is generated.
significant costs currencies and operates an internal funding are incurred in and or inuenced by the local structure which seeks to minimise foreign Additional information currencies in which the Group operates, exchange exposure.
Chief Financial Ofcers Statement principally Russian Roubles.
The appreciation of on pages 17 and 22. the Russian Rouble against the US Dollar tends to result in an increase in the Groups costs relative to its revenues.
In addition, a portion of the Group corporate overhead is denominated in Sterling, therefore, adverse currency movements may materially affect the Groups financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, if ination in Russia were to increase without a corresponding devaluation of the Russian Rouble relative to the US Dollar, the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition, may be adversely affected.
Change in risk before mitigation Change in risk after mitigation 70 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements 2 Financial risks continued Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Lack of funding and liquidity to: Adverse events or uncertainties affecting The Group manages liquidity risk by the global financial markets could affect the maintaining adequate cash reserves and Support its existing operations: Groups ability to raise new debt or renance borrowing facilities and during 2012 the Invest in and develop its existing debt facilities in the capital markets.
Group executed new banking facilities.
exploration projects: It could also in future lead to higher borrowing costs.
The Group reviews cash ow forecasts, Extend the life and capacity debt proles and funding options on a of its existing mining operations: The Group needs on-going access to liquidity regular basis and, specically, in respect and and funding in order to support its existing of the Going Concern deliberations Continue development of the operations and invest in new projects and undertaken by executive management, POX Hub.
There is a risk that the Group may the Audit Committee and the Board.
be unable to obtain the necessary funds when During 2012 and early 2013, the Group required or that such funds will be available on also undertook a detailed working capital unfavourable terms.
The Group may, therefore, exercise for the issue of the Class 1 Circular be unable to develop and or meet its to shareholders on 18 February 2013 operational commitments.
for which Deloitte acted as reporting accountants.
If the operational performance of the In addition, the Groups borrowing facilities business declines signicantly, there is include a requirement to comply with certain The Group maintains its available cash a risk that the Company breaches one or specified covenants, in relation to the level with several reputable major Russian and more of the restrictive covenants, as set of net debt and interest cover.
A breach of international banks and does not keep out in various loan agreements.
these covenants could result in a significant disproportionately large sums on deposit proportion of the Groups borrowings with a single bank.
Strong relationships becoming repayable immediately.
are maintained between the Company and existing and potential equity and debt providers.
The Group has adopted a strategy to focus on its core projects, thereby optimising its capital expenditure requirements and deleveraging its balance sheet.
During 2012, the Group sold non-core assets for a total cash consideration of US$34.3 million see note 29.
In addition, the Group has also negotiated the investment in IRC Limited see note 36, which, following full implementation, will have the impact of deconsolidating IRC and its debt.
Change in risk before mitigation Change in risk after mitigation Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 71 Report of the Risk Committee continued 2 Financial risks continued Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Funding may be demanded from Petropavlovsk has provided a guarantee The Group ensures constant monitoring Petropavlovsk under a guarantee against a US$340 million loan facility provided of IRCs performance through 1 IRC in favour of ICBC.
to K&S by ICBC to fund the construction presentations to the Petropavlovsk Board of IRCs mining operations at the K&S mine.
2 attendance of IRC Chairman and CEO In the event that K&S were to default at Petropavlovsk Executive Committee on their loan, Petropavlovsk may be liable meetings and 3 regular communication Additional information to repayment of the outstanding loan under between the Group CFO and the IRC CFO.
Further information on the IRC the terms of the guarantee.
transaction with General Nice and On 17 January 2013, Petropavlovsk Minmetals is detailed in the Directors and General Nice entered into a preliminary Report on page 80. agreement, which will be effective until the date of the Second Completion see below, under which General Nice has agreed to use its best endeavours to assist Petropavlovsk to procure the release of the ICBC bank guarantee.
Subject to the issue by IRC of the General Nice Further Subscription Shares and Minmetals Subscription Shares the Second Completion see note 36, an indemnity entered into by the Company and General Nice on 17 January 2013 will come into effect the Indemnity.
Pursuant to the Indemnity, General Nice will, while the Indemnity remains in effect, indemnify the Company in respect of payments made by Petropavlovsk, in respect of the ICBC guarantee or under the terms of a recourse agreement, entered into between the Company, IRC and K&S on 13 December 2010, in proportion to their respective holdings in IRC.
In addition, following the Second Completion, General Nice and Minmetals have agreed to use their respective reasonable efforts to assist Petropavlovsk with the removal of the ICBC bank guarantee.
Change in risk before mitigation Change in risk after mitigation 72 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements 2 Financial risks continued Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Exploration for Reserves can be Exploration activities are speculative and The Groups exploration budget is xed for costly and uncertain.
These activities often each asset at the start of each financial year, require substantial expenditure to: establish depending on confidence in any previously Reserves through drilling and metallurgical received results.
During 2012 the Group and other testing, determine appropriate focused its exploration programme on Additional information recovery processes to extract gold from areas at, or close to, its operating mines Exploration, Reserves & Resources the ore and construct, or expand, mining and, in particular, on nding new, nonpages 38 to 49. and processing facilities.
As a result, the are discovered, it can take several years majority of the 1.95Moz JORC Mineral to determine whether Reserves exist.
Reserves added after depletion, gures as During this time, the economic viability of at 1 January 2013, are non-refractory and a production may change.
As a result of these are located at, or close to, the Groups uncertainties, the exploration programmes processing plants, requiring minimal capital the Group is engaged in may not result in expenditure to develop them.
the expansion or replacement of the current production with new Reserves The Group is using modern geophysical or operations.
and geochemical exploration and surveying techniques.
The Group employs a world class team of geologists with considerable regional expertise and experience.
They are supported by a network of fully accredited laboratories capable of performing a range of assay work to high standards.
Change in risk before mitigation Change in risk after mitigation Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 73 Report of the Risk Committee continued 3 Health, safety and environmental risks Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Failures in the Groups health and safety The Groups employees are one of its most Health and safety management systems processes and or breach of Occupational valuable assets.
The Group recognises that are in place across the Group to ensure that Health & Safety legislation.
it has an obligation to protect the health of the operations are managed in accordance its employees and that they have the right with the relevant health and safety to operate in a safe working environment.
Certain of the Groups operations are carried Additional information out under potentially hazardous conditions.
The Group has an established health and Please see pages 52 to 63 of Group employees may become exposed to safety training programme, under which the Sustainability section of this health and safety risks, which may lead to the its employees undergo initial training on Annual Report.
occurrence of work-related accidents and commencement of employment and take harm to the Groups employees.
These could part in refresher training on an annual basis.
also result in production delays, reputational damage and financial loss.
The Group implemented a range of additional measures during 2011 in order to minimise the risk of accidents and improve accident response, including additional and enhanced technical measures at all sites, improved first aid response and the provision of further occupational, health and safety training.
There were no fatalities during 2012.
The Group operates a prompt incident reporting system to the Executive Committee and the Board.
Board level oversight of health and safety issues occurs through the work of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee.
Change in risk before mitigation Change in risk after mitigation The Groups operations require the use Accidental spillages of cyanide and other Cyanide and other dangerous substances of hazardous substances, including chemicals may result in damage to the are kept in secure storages with access cyanide and other reagents.
environment, personnel and individuals limited to only qualied personnel, with within the local community.
access closely monitored by security staff.
Additional information Please see pages 53 and 61 of the Sustainability section.
Change in risk after mitigation Change in risk before mitigation 74 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements 4 Legal and regulatory risks Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group requires various licences The Groups principal activity is the mining There are established processes in place and permits in order to operate.
of precious and non-precious metals which to monitor the required and existing require it to hold licences, which permit it to licences and permits on an on-going basis explore and mine in particular areas in Russia.
and processes are also in place to ensure These licences are regulated by Russian compliance with the requirements of Additional information governmental agencies and, if a material the licences and permits.
Schedules are Please see pages 60 and 61 of the licence was challenged or terminated, presented to the Executive Committee Sustainability section for further this would have a material adverse impact detailing compliance with the Groups information regarding environmental on the Group.
In addition, various government licences and permits.
matters relating to licences and permits.
regulations require the Group to obtain permits to implement new projects or to renew existing permits.
Non-renewal of a permit may cause the Group to discontinue operations, reacquiring the permit and the imposition of additional conditions may cause the Group Change in risk before mitigation to incur additional compliance costs.
Change in risk after mitigation The Groups Mineral Reserves and The Groups Mineral Reserves and The first stage of assurance of the accuracy Ore Resources are estimates based Resources are estimates based on a of Reserves and Resources is by detailed on a range of assumptions.
range of assumptions, including the results analysis of geological samples in the of exploratory drilling and an on-going Groups laboratories.
sampling of the ore bodies: past experience with mining properties: and the experience of These laboratories are licensed by the Additional information the expert engaged to carry out the Reserve Russian authorities and use multiple quality Exploration, Reserves & Resources estimates.
Other uncertainties inherent in assurance and quality control procedures.
pages 38 to 49. estimating Reserves, include subjective The quality assurance and quality control judgements and determinations based on procedures include the use of standards, available geological, technical, contractual and blanks and duplicates, as well as cross economic information.
Some assumptions checking a percentage of all samples may be valid at the time of estimation but may analysed, in an independent laboratory change signicantly when new information in Ulan Ude, Republic of Buryatia, Russia.
The Resource and Reserve estimates Changes to any of these assumptions, on for the hard-rock assets are prepared in which the Groups Reserve and Resource accordance with the guidelines of the Joint estimates are based, could lead to the Ore Reserves Committee of the Australian reported Reserves being restated.
Changes Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, Australian in the Reserves and Resources could Institute of Geosciences and Minerals adversely impact the economic life of deposits Council of Australia JORC Code 2004. and the profitability of the Groups operations.
The preparation of the Group estimates follows methodology set out by Wardell Armstrong International, independent experts within the mining industry.
The Group also engages the services of independent experts to review the Reserves and Resources statements for operating mines and development projects on a regular basis to provide additional external assurance.
In addition, the Company publishes its Reserves and Resources estimates based on gold prices, which are lower than the current market price of gold.
Change in risk before mitigation Change in risk after mitigation Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 75 Report of the Risk Committee continued 4 Legal and regulatory risks continued Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group is subject to risks associated Actions by governments, or changes in To mitigate the Russian economic and with operating in Russia.
economic, political, judicial, administrative, banking risk, the Group strives to use the taxation or other regulatory factors or foreign banking services of several financial policy in the countries in which the Group institutions and not keep disproportionately operates or holds its major assets, could have large sums on deposit with a single bank.
an adverse impact on the Groups business or its future performance.
Most of the Groups The Group seeks to mitigate the political assets and operations are based in Russia.
and legal risk by constant monitoring of the proposed and newly-adopted legislation Russian foreign investment legislation to adapt to the changing regulatory imposes restrictions on the acquisition by environment in the countries in which it foreign investors of direct or indirect interests operates, specically in Russia.
It also relies in strategic sectors of the Russian economy, on the advice of external counsel, in relation including in respect of gold Reserves in excess to the interpretation and implementation of a specified amount, or any occurrences within the Group, of new legislation.
The Group closely monitors its assets None of the Groups assets are currently and the probability of their inclusion into included on the list of subsoil blocks of federal the Strategic Assets lists published by signicance, maintained by the Russian the Russian Government.
Government Strategic Assets, and on the basis of the Russian foreign investment law and the related legislation now in force, it is not currently expected that any of the Groups assets will be classied as Strategic Assets.
However, if the legislative framework or judicial interpretation thereof changes in the future, so that some assets of the Group become Strategic Assets, the Group entities holding licences in respect of such deposits may, themselves, become strategic.
In this case, such Group entities rights in relation to such assets may be limited or even terminated with the compensation of incurred expenses in the course of the exploration of such deposits under the procedure set out by the Russian Government.
If the relevant Group entities are allowed to continue exploring such assets, direct or indirect acquisitions of interests in such entities may require clearance under the Russian foreign investments law.
Fluctuations in the global economy may adversely affect Russias economy.
Russias economy is increasingly dependent on global economic trends and is more vulnerable to market downturns and economic slowdowns elsewhere in the world, as well as to reductions and uctuations in the prices of hydrocarbons Change in risk before mitigation and minerals.
Change in risk after mitigation 76 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements 5 Human resources risk Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group depends on attracting The Groups success and growth is Succession planning is an important item and retaining key personnel.
closely aligned to the experience, abilities on the agendas of both the Nomination and contributions of certain of its key Committee and the Board.
senior managers, and, in particular, the Groups Chairman.
Regular reviews of reward structures Additional information and incentive plans are carried out in Corporate Governance Report The Groups growth and profitability may be order to attract, retain and incentivise on pages 86 to 87. adversely impacted by the loss of the services key employees.
Directors Remuneration Report of these key senior managers, or its inability on pages 94 to 111. to attract additional highly-qualied and experienced people.
Change in risk before mitigation Change in risk after mitigation Lack of skilled labour.
The Group seeks its skilled labour within The Group has a long standing programme the geographies in which it operates, avoiding of investing in education in the regions in the need for higher expatriate labour costs.
which it operates to ensure a constant As the scale of the Groups operations supply of highly qualied specialists for Additional information increases, it may experience a shortage the Groups operations.
Details of the various educational and of skilled labour, which may make it difficult developmental programmes are set out to execute its business plans and or lead Additional investment continues to be made in the Sustainability section pages 58 to operational inefficiencies.
in training, particularly with respect to the and 59.
Pokrovskiy Mining College, and recruitment to improve operational efficiencies.
The Group has conducted training at its pilot POX plant.
Change in risk before mitigation Change in risk after mitigation Overview Approval As a result of its work undertaken during This report was approved by the Board the year, the Risk Committee has concluded and signed on its behalf by: that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference.
As Chairman of the Lord Guthrie Risk Committee, I will be available at this Chairman of the Risk Committee years Annual General Meeting to answer 27 March 2013 any questions about the work of the Risk Committee.
