Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach We believe that effective governance is fundamental to successful management.
our processes enable us to connect leadership, ethical behaviour and collaboration: and to demonstrate transparent, consistent and effective governance to all our stakeholders.
In this section Chairmans introduction Read more on page 56 Board of directors Read more on page 59 Corporate governance Read more on page 62 Directors report Read more on page 73 Remuneration report Read more on page 78 55 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 chairmans introduction Good governance requires a clear understanding of roles in order to manage the business effectively, responsibly and with integrity, so that we demonstrate accountability and maintain the trust ofall our stakeholders.
We have a broad range of skills on the Board and I actively encourage all Board members to use theirexperience and knowledge to express their views in thespirit ofconstructive challenge.
introduction directors and succession planning I was delighted to join ARM as Chairman As part of our planned and continuing inMay 2012 and am very pleased to be evolution of the Board, there were a number Sir John Buchanan introducing the Corporate Governance report of changes in 2012 and there are some further for 2012.
Governance is a very important changes scheduled for 2013.
Chairman contributor to the success of the Group As planned, TudorBrown and Doug Dunn andwe continue to take great pride not only retired from the Board on 3 May 2012 after inwhat we do but also the way in which we long and distinguished service to the Group.
The Board leads this process and sets This section explains the Aspreviously announced, Young Sohn retired the standards that we expect from all from the Board at the end of 2012 and Mike Boards approach to corporate ouremployees.
Inglis retires from the Board on 31 March 2013. governance and corporate This report explains how we comply with Simon Segars took on the role of President good corporate governance principles, with effect from 1 January 2013 and will be responsibility.
We believe that describes how the Board and its committees taking on some of Mike Inglis commercial effective governance requires work and our approach to risk management responsibilities.
I have paid tribute to Young leadership, ethical behaviour and internal control.
Risk management and and Mike elsewhere in this report and wish principal risks are also covered on pages 52 them well for the future.
The main function of the Board as a Reports from the various Board committees whole is the direction and oversight of the and details of their current composition are Group on behalf of the shareholders.
covered in more detail in the Corporate Withinthis, the Board actively considers Governance and Remuneration reports below.
long-term strategy, monitors and supports thework of the Executive Committee and The Board reflects a balance between isresponsible for Board and executive financial, technology sector, commercial and management succession.
My role as general business skills, with a highly Chairmanis to provide the leadership to experienced international team leading the ensure high quality decision making in all areas business in both executive and non-executive of strategy, performance, responsibility and roles.
Following the retirement of Young Sohn accountability.
As a Board, we have ultimate from the Board at the end of 2012, the responsibility forthe Groups performance Nomination Committee is actively seeking and for overseeing the management of risk.
new candidates as independent non-executive Weseekto do this through a strong and directors with in-depth knowledge and effective governance system.
experience of the technology sector.
56 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach The Board played an important role in development of strategy remuneration successfully guiding ARM through the The Boards work on defining our shortand ARMs remuneration policy seeks to align challenging economic environment in 2012, long-term strategic priorities at this important theinterests of executive directors and providing clear strategic direction and ensuring stage in the Groups development is ongoing.
shareholders and is structured to enable the that the Groups performance and standards We undertook a detailed Strategy Review in Group to attract, motivate and retain the of conduct met its expectations.
September and have organised an extra talent required to deliver the business strategy.
strategy meeting in May 2013 in addition to The Remuneration Committee, under Philip The roles and specific expertise of the current ournormal in-depth review in September.
Rowleys chairmanship, undertook a review of members of the Board are set out in the Thismeeting will focus on progress to date executive remuneration policy during 2012 in biographies section on pages 59 to 61. andfuture plans to take advantage of the conjunction with external advisers and has diversity significant opportunities that have been been consulting with shareholders over the identified.
These opportunities are in areas proposed new Long Term Incentive Plan which After the changes referred to above, the that include the evolving Internet of Things, will be put to shareholders for approval at the Board will comprise nine men 82% and two efficient networking, ARM powered servers 2013 AGM.
The changes, which will be women 18% which reflects the gender and security applications.
More details are implemented in 2014, reflect the latest diversity of ARMs workforce as a whole.
included in the strategy and performance guidelines and the desire of shareholders for: Thegender split of engineering undergraduate section earlier in this report.
entrants in the UK in 2012 was 84% men simplification of incentive plans for executives: and16% women.
corporate governance framework androle of the board longer holding periods for shares: and Gender split Board The Groups corporate governance increased share ownership requirements.
Men 82% framework is built around three pillars: Women 18% The Board is cognisant of the general organisation and structure: sensitivity relating to executive director the internal control framework: and remuneration.
We are committed to the principle that there should be no reward for independent assurance.
failure and believe that the increased emphasis on long-term performance-related pay is ARM has its primary listing on the London appropriate and ensures that ARMs Gender split Workforce Stock Exchange and is also listed on the remuneration policy does not encourage NASDAQ Stock Market in the US.
Full details are Women 17% Throughout 2012, the Group complied fully included in the Remuneration report and the with the UK Corporate Governance Code Circular to shareholders.
We also include total and also with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 remuneration figures for executive directors US.
The Board values good corporate this year, in line with best practice.
governance and this is reflected in ourgovernance principles, policies and practices and our everyday working processes.
This approach is backed The Board noted the publication of Lord bycontinuous improvement based on Davies Review into Women on Boards in measurement against internal objectives, February 2011 and the proposals published by external audits and benchmarking and a the European Commission in November 2012 rigorous approach to risk management.
which include an objective that 40% of non-executive directors should be women by2020.
We believe that diversity should beconsidered broadly, as well as focusing on gender.
It is important to achieve the correct balance of skills, knowledge and experience onthe Board.
We are committed to continuing to increase the proportion of women on the Board.
We will continue tomake appointments on merit and also tovalue diversity in its broadest context.
57 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 ethics and values ARMs technology is inherently low-power Awards received during 2012 include: andenables smarter, more energy-efficient All directors and employees are required to products to be created.
ARM is continuously London Stock Exchange techMARK act fairly, honestly and with integrity and to seeking to improve its own low carbon Innovation award 2012 for success in demonstrate that they have read and business operation and during 2010 we set commercialising new technologies: understand ARMs Code of Business Conduct goals of: and Ethics, a copy of which is published on certified as one of Britains Top Employers thecorporate website at www.
in2012 by the CRF Institute: 30% emission reduction in tons of CO2 As part of our commitment to the highest emission per employee by 2020: and finalist in the 2012 FTSE 100 Business of the standards of business conduct and ethics, Year in the UK National Business Awards: 15% energy use reduction measured in wehave implemented an enhanced KWhper employee by 2020. communication and training programme Best Data Centre Project Award at the toensure that all employees worldwide 2012UK IT Industry Awards by the BCS understand the requirements of the Bribery Between 2009 and 2012 we achieved a Chartered Institute for IT : Act 2010 and its global reach.
The Compliance 7.6%reduction in tons of CO2 emission per 8th in new Sociagility ranking of bestCommittee reviews a range of activities across employee and a 10.9% reduction in KWh performing FTSE 100 companies and the the Group, sets appropriate policies and peremployee across ARM globally.
number one Tech Telecoms company: procedures and takes the lead in ensuring compliance with them and encouraging good ARM increased its support for the second highest YouTube channel score in the practice.
It reports on its activities to the communities in which we operate during 2012.
FTSE 100 and, measured on PRINT social Board through the Audit Committee.
We have four particular areas of focus: attributes, the highest Receptiveness score: and corporate responsibility STEM education Science, Technology, In 2012, ARM was again recognised for its Cortex-A50 series processors selected as Engineering and Mathematics : commitment to environmental, social and one of Electronics Product Magazines Information and Communication Technology governance issues through inclusion in the products of the year.
for Development: FTSE4Good Index, designed to measure theperformance of companies that meet Environment: and I hope the following reports demonstrate that globally-recognised corporate responsibility setting the corporate governance framework standards.
continues to be a key focus for the Board.
ARM also demonstrated leadership in Wemust always be conscious of the fact Employee involvement is encouraged through corporate responsibility by continuing its thatthe Boards primary responsibility is providing paid volunteer time, a Matching participation in UN LEAD, which was set topromote the long-term success of the GiftDonation programme and a global upbythe United Nations Global Compact Company for the benefit of customers, UNGC.
UN LEAD is a platform through teambuilding and fundraising group.
More employees and shareholders and I believe which each participant is challenged to details about our charitable giving are included thatwe are well positioned to continue to implement the Blueprint for Corporate in the Directors report on page 74. provide value to all our stakeholders.
Sustainability Leadership and share lessons More details about our approach to corporate learned with other UNGC companies.
responsibility are set out in the Corporate ARMsCorporate Responsibility report Sir John Buchanan Responsibility report on page 40 and in the full contains details of how we have incorporated Chairman Corporate Responsibility report which can be the Blueprint into our reporting and found at www.
27 February 2013 58 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach Board of the experience directors of the team ARMs Board has the breadth and depth of experience necessary to guide the Group as it seeks to take full advantage of new opportunities and contend with new challenges.
Biographical details of the directors as at the date of this report are as follows: Sir John Buchanan 69 Warren East 51 Simon Segars 45 Chairman Chief Executive Officer President Committees Committees Committees Nomination Committee Chairman None None Current directorships Current directorships Current directorships Smith & Nephew plc Chairman fide La Rue plc Non-Executive Director and SOI Industry Consortium Director Chairman of the Audit Committee BHP Billiton plc Senior Independent Director EDA Consortium Director International Chamber of Commerce UK Time on Board Time on Board Chairman 12 years 5 months 8 years 2 months Chairman of the UK Trustees for the Expertise Expertise  appeal Warren East joined ARM in 1994 to set up ARMs Simon Segars joined the Board in January 2005 consulting business.
He was Vice President, Business Time on Board andwas appointed President in January 2013, Operations from February 1998.
In October 2000 10 months continuing to lead the IP divisions and represent he was appointed to the Board as Chief Operating them on the Board.
He was previously EVP and Expertise Officer and in October 2001 was appointed Chief General Manager of the Processor and Physical IP John Buchanan joined the Board as Chairman on Executive Officer.
Before joining ARM he was with Divisions.
Earlier senior roles included EVP, 3May 2012.
He has broad international experience Texas Instruments.
He is a chartered engineer, Engineering, EVP, Worldwide Sales and EVP, gained in large and complex businesses.
He has Fellow of the Institution of Engineering and Business Development.
He joined ARM in early experience and knowledge of the international Technology, Fellow of the Royal Academy of 1991 and worked on many of the early ARM CPU investor community and has held various leadership Engineering and a Companion of the Chartered products.
He led the development of the ARM7 roles in strategic, financial, operational and Management Institute.
He has an honorary andARM9 Thumb families.
He holds a number of marketing positions, including executive experience doctorate from Cranfield University.
patents in the field of embedded CPU architectures.
He is a former Chief Financial Officer of BP plc and a former Deputy Chairman and senior independent director of Vodafone Group plc.
59 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Tim Score 52 Andy Green 57 Chief Financial Officer Independent NonExecutive Director Committees Committees Risk Review Committee Remuneration Committee Compliance Committee Nomination Committee Current directorships Current directorships National Express Group plc Senior Independent Dock On AG Chairman Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Networking People UK Limited Chairman Time on Board ABESU Trustee and Director 11 years Time on Board Expertise 2 years 1 month Tim Score joined ARM as Chief Financial Officer Expertise and director in March 2002.
Before joining ARM, he Andy Green joined the Board in February 2011. was Finance Director of Rebus Group Limited.
He Hewas CEO of Logica plc from 2008 to 2012. was previously Group Finance Director of William Heisa former CEO of BT Global Services and a Baird plc, Group Controller at LucasVarity plc and former CEO of Group Strategy and Operations Group Financial Controller at BTR plc.
atBT plc and was CEO of BT Openworld.
He is Chair of e-Skills UK the UK Sector Skills Council forBusiness and Information Technology, is on theBoard and the Presidents Committee of the CBI and is a Companion of the Chartered Management Institute.
Mike Muller 54 Kathleen ODonovan 55 Chief Technology Officer Senior Independent NonExecutive Director Committees Committees Risk Review Committee Chairman Audit Committee Chairman Nomination Committee Current directorships Intelligent Energy Limited Current directorships Invensys Pension Trustee Ltd Chairman Time on Board 11 years 5 months Trinity Mirror plc Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Expertise D S Smith Plc Non-Executive Director Mike Muller was one of the founders of ARM.
Before joining the Group, he was responsible for Time on Board hardware strategy and the development of portable 6 years 3 months products at Acorn Computers.
He was previously at Orbis Computers.
At ARM he was VP, Marketing Expertise from 1992 to 1996 and EVP, Business Development Kathleen ODonovan joined the Board in until October 2000 when he was appointed Chief December 2006.
Previously she was a Technology Officer.
In October 2001, he was non-executive director and Chairman of the appointed to the Board.
AuditCommittees of the Court of the Bank of England, Great Portland Estates plc, EMI Group plc and Prudential plc and a non-executive director of O2 plc.
Prior to that, she was Chief Financial Officer of BTR plc and Invensys plc and before that she wasa Partner at Ernst & Young.
60 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach Larry Hirst 61 Mike Inglis 53 Independent Chief Commercial Officer NonExecutive Director Committees Committees Audit Committee None Remuneration Committee Current directorships Pace plc Non-Executive Director Current directorships MITIE Group plc Non-Executive Director Time on Board 11 years Time on Board 2 years 2 months Expertise Mike Inglis joined ARM in 2002 and became Chief Expertise Commercial Officer in April 2012 having previously Larry Hirst joined the Board in January 2011.
He is been EVP and General Manager of the Processor the former Chairman of IBM Europe, Middle East Division since July 2008.
Prior to that he was EVP, and Africa.
He retired from IBM in 2010 having Sales and Marketing.
Before joining ARM, he previously held a wide range of senior positions worked in management consultancy with A. T. since joining the company in 1977.
He currently Kearney and held a number of senior operational chairs the Imperial College Digital Cities Exchange.
and marketing positions at Motorola, Texas He is also an Ambassador to Monitise plc and on Instruments, Fairchild and BIS Macintosh and gained the International Advisory Board for British his initial industrial experience with GEC Airways.
Former roles include being a UK Business Telecommunications.
He is a chartered engineer Ambassador, a Commissioner for the Commission and a Member of the Chartered Institute of for Employment and Skills andChair of e-skills UK Marketing.
As previously announced, he will be the UK Sector Skills Council for Business and retiring from the Board in March 2013.
Janice Roberts 57 Philip Rowley 60 Independent Independent NonExecutive Director NonExecutive Director Committees Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Current directorships Mayfield Fund Managing Director Current directorships RealNetworks, Inc. Non-Executive Director Promethean World plc Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Time on Board Livestation Limited Chairman 2 years 2 months Pouncer Media Limited Chairman Expertise Janice Roberts joined the Board in January 2011.
Time on Board Shehas been a Managing Director at Mayfield Fund 8 years 2 months since 2000, a Silicon Valley-based venture capital Expertise firm with approximately $3 billion under Philip Rowley joined the Board in January 2005. management, where she focuses on the mobile, Hewas Chairman and CEO of AOL Europe, the wireless, communications and consumer technology internet services and web brands provider until industries.
Prior to that, she held various executive February 2007.
He is a qualified chartered accountant positions at 3Com Corporation including President and was Group Finance Director of Kingfisher plc Palm Computing, President 3Com Ventures and from 1998 to 2000 and Deputy CEO and CFO Senior Vice President, Business Development ofthe General Merchandise Division until 2001. andGlobal Marketing.
She is a director of several Prior to that, his roles included EVP, Chief Financial private technology companies in the US.
Officer of EMI Music Worldwide.
He recently resigned as Chairman of HMV Group plc.
61 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Corporate corporate governance governance This section and the Remuneration report detail how the Group has applied the principles of good governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010.
The revisions to the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in 2012 take effect for financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2012.
We are voluntarily reporting on some of these changes in this report and will report fully in our 2013 annual report.
compliance statement board The Group has complied with the provisions The Board is collectively responsible for the of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 overall conduct of the Groups business.
throughout 2012 and to the date of this The Boards core activities include: document.
The Group also achieved full compliance with the requirements of section providing leadership for the Group: 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 US for the seventh successive year.
The Companys active engagement in developing the Groups American Depositary Shares are listed on long-term strategy: NASDAQ and we are therefore subject toandcomply fully with NASDAQ rules, monitoring executive actions, standards of USSecurities laws and Securities and Exchange conduct, performance against business plans Commission rules to the extent that they and budgets and ensuring that the necessary apply to foreign private issuers.
We explain financial and human resources are in place inthe reports below how we applied the forit to meet its objectives: provisions and principles of the FSA Listing obtaining assurance that material risks to Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules theGroup are identified and appropriate and the UK Corporate Governance Code systems of risk management and control throughout the year.
exist to mitigate such risks and defining theGroups appetite for risk: Board and executive management succession: responsibility for the long-term success of the Group having regard to the interests ofall stakeholders: and responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness of and reporting on our system of corporate governance.
62 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach The Board has a formal schedule of matters independence board meetings specifically reserved for its decision, which The Board reviews the independence of the Before each meeting, the Board is provided include: non-executive directors on appointment and at with information concerning the state of the appropriate intervals and considers each of the business and its performance in a form and of a Group strategy and major business issues five non-executive directors to be independent quality appropriate for it to discharge its duties.
including atypical licence agreements: in character, judgment and behaviour, based The non-executive directors are encouraged on both participation and performance at to suggest matters for Board discussions and annual budgets and long-term finance plans: Board and committee meetings.
There are in2012 they were active in contributing to the norelationships or circumstances which are agenda for the strategic review and ensuring major capital expenditure, acquisitions, likely to affect the judgment of any of them.
the amount of time spent on strategic and disposals and investments: The Chairman was regarded as independent operational issues was appropriately balanced.
financial reporting, controls and financial at the time of his appointment.
Through this process, an additional strategy structure: meeting has been scheduled during 2013. non-executive directors expertise shareholder communications: Key senior executives attend Board meetings Kathleen ODonovan has been the Senior throughout the year which gives the Independent Director since January 2011. key policies: and non-executive directors greater visibility TheSenior Independent Director provides ofexecutive talent and potential key advisers.
acommunication channel between the managementsuccession.
Chairman and the non-executive directors andis available to discuss matters with In the event that directors are unable to attend composition and operation shareholders, if required.
During 2012, a meeting or a conference call they receive and oftheboard sheledthe Nomination Committee through read the documents for consideration at that The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the process to identify and recommend the meeting and have the opportunity to relay requires that at least half of the Board, recruitment of the new Chairman.
their comments and, if necessary, to follow excluding the Chairman, should comprise upwith the Chairman or the Chief Executive Janice Roberts who is based in Silicon Valley, independent non-executive directors.
The Officer after the meeting.
Larry Hirst and Andy Green all have a broad Board currently comprises five executive understanding of the Groups technology and directors, five independent non-executive During 2012, the retiring Chairman and the the practices of major US-based technology directors and the Chairman.
The number of new Chairman both held meetings with the companies.
Philip Rowley and Kathleen executive directors will reduce to four when non-executive directors without the ODonovan are both financial experts with the Chief Commercial Officer, Mike Inglis, executives present and the non-executive strong financial backgrounds.
Biographies of retires on 31 March 2013. directors met on at least one occasion without the directors appear on pages 59 to 61. the Chairman being present.
The continuing executive directors are the Thebeneficial interests of the directors in the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial share capital of the Company are set out in the The table below shows directors attendance Officer, the President and the Chief Remuneration report.
In the opinion of the at scheduled Board meetings and conference Technology Officer all of whom play significant Board, Philip Rowleys modest shareholding calls or ad hoc meetings which they were roles in the day-to-day management of does not detract from his independent status.
eligible to attend during the 2012 financial year: thebusiness.
Authority is delegated to various committees Scheduled Board meetings Conference calls ad hoc meetings that are constituted within written terms number 6 10 ofreference and chaired by independent Sir John Buchanan appointed 3 May 2012 3 3 6 6 non-executive directors where required by Warren East 6 6 10 10 the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010.
Andy Green 6 6 10 10 conflicts Larry Hirst 5 6 10 10 Mike Inglis 6 6 10 10 All directors have completed conflicts of Mike Muller 6 6 10 10 interest questionnaires and any planned Kathleen ODonovan 6 6 10 10 changes in their directorships outside the Janice Roberts 6 6 10 10 Group are subject to prior approval by the Philip Rowley 6 6 8 10 Board.
In order to avoid a potential conflict Tim Score 6 6 8 10 ofinterest, Young Sohn stood down from Simon Segars 6 6 10 10 theBoard on 31 December 2012 in order Young Sohn retired 31 December 2012 6 6 8 10 totake up an executive position outside the Tudor Brown retired 3 May 2012 3 3 2 4 Group.
No conflicts of interest arose in 2012 Doug Dunn retired 3 May 2012 3 3 4 4 or to date in 2013 andnoother situations were or have since been identified that might lead to a conflict ofinterest.
63 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 chairman Main responsibilities of the Chairman include: company secretary The Chairman is also chairman of Smith & Patricia Alsop acts as Secretary to the Board leadership of the Board and creating the Nephew plc and the International Chamber and Board committees and all Board members conditions for overall Board and individual ofCommerce UK and is Senior Independent have individual access to her advice.
She director effectiveness and a constructive Director of BHP Billiton plc.
Hehas attended ensures that the Board receives all relevant relationship with good communications all meetings and conference calls since the date information in a timely manner, organises between the executive and non-executive of his appointment and has attended several induction and training programmes and directors: induction sessions, meeting members of the facilitates the Board evaluation in years when executive team and a range ofsenior managers this is conducted internally.
She is also ensuring that the Board as a whole plays a full to increase his knowledge and understanding responsible for ensuring that the correct and constructive part in the development of of the various parts of thebusiness and its Board and committee procedures are strategy and overall commercial objectives: operations.
He also participated with the followed and advises the Board on corporate Chairman of the Remuneration Committee governance matters.
The established chairing the Nomination Committee which insome meetings and discussions with major procedure under which directors can, where initiates succession planning to retain and shareholders overthe proposed new Long appropriate, obtain independent legal or other build an effective and complementary Board: Term Incentive Plan, details of which are set professional advice at the Groups expense is ensuring that there is effective communication out in the Remuneration report and the also administered through her.
with shareholders and that members of the Circular to shareholders.
Further induction annual report, information and Board develop an understanding of the views sessions areplanned for 2013. communication with shareholders of the major investors in the Group: The Chairman has primary responsibility for andother stakeholders promoting the highest standards of integrity, running the Board and the Chief Executive The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and probity and corporate governance throughout Officer has executive responsibility for the approving the annual report and accounts the Group, particularly at Board level: and operations and results of the Group and for andthe quarterly earnings releases and making proposals to the Board in relation forensuring that they present a balanced ensuring that the performance of the Board tothe strategic development of the Group.
assessment of the Groups position, lies as a whole, its committees, and individual There are clear and documented divisions of withthe Board.
directors is formally and rigorously evaluated accountability and responsibility for the roles at least once a year.
of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The Board delegates day-to-day responsibility for managing the Group to the Executive Main responsibilities of the Chief Executive Committee and has a number of other Approximate allocation of Board agenda time in 2012 Officer include: committees, details of which are set out Strategy and risk 57% onthefollowing pages.
Business updates proposing and developing the Groups financial reporting 23% strategy and overall commercial objectives in Governance 9% Division and conjunction with the Executive Committee: function updates 11% day-to-day management of the Group: managing the Executive Committee: leading the communication programme with shareholders and analysts: and fostering good relationships with key stakeholders.
64 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach investor relations agm The overall conclusion was that individual Board members are satisfied that the Board The Board makes considerable efforts to The Board actively encourages participation at works well and operates effectively in an establish and maintain good relationships with the AGM, scheduled for 2 May 2013, which is environment where there is constructive shareholders and the wider investment the principal forum for dialogue with private community.
There is regular dialogue with shareholders.
A presentation is made outlining challenge from the non-executive directors.
institutional investors during the year other recent developments in the business and an They are also satisfied with the contribution than during close periods.
The main channel of open question-and-answer session follows to made by their colleagues and that Board communication continues to be through the enable shareholders to ask questions about committees operate properly and efficiently.
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial the business in general.
In response to points raised in the evaluation, Officer and the VP of Investor Relations.
there will in 2013 be increased Board time All resolutions proposed at the 2013 AGM will TheChairman, the Senior Independent andfocus on: be decided on a poll and the voting results will Director and the other directors are available be published via RNS and the SEC and will be to engage in dialogue with major shareholders the strategy agenda with an additional available on the Groups website.
During 2012 the Chairman meeting scheduled for May 2013: ofthe Remuneration Committee and the board evaluation Chairman consulted with shareholders on succession planning: and The Board undertakes an annual Board theterms of the proposed new Long Term evaluation.
During 2012, this exercise was risk appetite.
Incentive Plan, details of which are set out conducted internally using a questionnaire and inthe Remuneration report and the Circular was facilitated by the Company Secretary.
An An externally facilitated board evaluation will to Shareholders.
external evaluation last took place in 2010 and take place during 2013. the Board plans to continue with a cycle of The Board also encourages communication external evaluations every three years and with private investors and part of the Groups induction internal evaluations in between.
website is dedicated to providing accurate and A full, formal induction programme is arranged timely information for all investors, including for new directors, tailored to their specific The 2012 evaluation covered: responses to frequently asked questions, the requirements, the aim of which is to introduce investment case, product information, press them to key executives across the business strategic development, execution and releases, RNS and Securities and Exchange andto enhance their knowledge and monitoring: Commission SEC announcements and an understanding of the Group and its activities.
online version of the annual report.
In 2012, this included a programme for the risk management and control: new Chairman and further meetings between At present, over 30 sell-side analysts write leadership development and succession the non-executive directors who joined in research reports on the Group and their planning: 2011 and a range of senior employees.
details appear on the Groups website.
Shareholders can also obtain telephone shareholder and stakeholder communication: Non-executive directors are encouraged to numbers from the website, enabling them to spend time outside Board meetings with performance management: listen to earnings presentations and audio members of the Executive Committee and conference calls with analysts.
In addition, Board structure, committees and their themanagement team.
All members of the webcasts or audiocasts of key presentations operation: Board are invited to attend the Annual Partner are made available through the website.
Meeting in the UK which is the Groups key induction and development: and customer event of the year and or the ARM Members of the Board develop an TechCon in the US.
Board members are assessment of the performance of individual understanding of the views of major alsoinvited to attend the annual Analyst committees and the Chairman.
shareholders through any direct contact that andInvestor Day.
These events offer the may be initiated by shareholders, or through opportunity to understand more about analysts and brokers briefings.
The Board also thebusiness, products, technology receives feedback from the Groups brokers development roadmap, customer base and financial PR advisers, who in turn obtain andinvestor perspective.
feedback from analysts and brokers following investor roadshows.
All shareholders may register to receive the Groups press releases via the internet.
65 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 training TheCommittee is also responsible for & Commercial Development, Marketing & ensuring that risks identified through the Business Development, Strategy, Human Board members receive guidance on the Operational Planning process, particularly Resources, the General Counsel and the regulatory regimes and corporate governance corporate level risks are managed and Company Secretary.
Executive Committee framework that the Group operates under.
mitigated to the extent possible.
meetings are attended by other senior Inparticular, during 2012 the Board received operational personnel, as appropriate.
an update from the Company Secretary on Three Executive Committee observers current governance topics including executive wereappointed from the senior management Biographies of the members of the Executive remuneration and board diversity.
Tom Cronk is responsible Committee appear on the Groups website has a commitment to training and all directors, forthe Processor Division, Dipesh Patel is atwww.
executive or non-executive, are encouraged responsible for the Physical IP Division and toattend suitable training courses at the management structure Pete Hutton is responsible for the Media Groups expense.
The Group has a traditional UK board Processing Business Unit.
Theybecame full structure with a unitary Group board members of the Committee with effect The terms of reference of the Audit, comprising the Chairman, executive and from1January 2013.
Remuneration and Nomination Committees non-executive directors.
The Audit and are published on the Groups website at Variations from the budget and changes in Remuneration Committees are made up of www.
strategy require approval from the main Board independent non-executive directors and they, of the Group.
The Executive Committee, executive committee together with the Nomination Committee, which meets monthly, now comprises the report to the Board.
The divisions and The Executive Committee is responsible for Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, functions report to the Executive Committee.
developing and implementing the strategy the President, the Chief Commercial Officer, The Risk Review Committee reports approved by the Board.
In particular, the the Chief Technology Officer, the Chief periodically to the Executive Committee, Committee is responsible for ensuring that Operating Officer, the EVPs and General Audit Committee and the Board.
The VP theGroups budget and forecasts are Managers of the Processor, Physical IP and Business Assurance Head of Internal Audit properlyprepared, that targets are met System Design Divisions and the Media also has a separate reporting line tothe andfor generally managing and developing Processing Business Unit, the EVPs of Regional Chairman of the Audit Committee.
thebusiness within the overall budget.
management structure Remuneration Committee Holdings Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee board Executive Disclosure Divisions Committee Committee Energy Use & Business Travel Policy Operations Risk Review Compliance Climage Change Assurance Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Internal audit Charitable Donations Organisational & Sustainability Development IT Committee Committee Committee committees Operations Management Customer Corporate Product Business Review Sales Commission Review Team System Team Satisfaction Team Approval Team Meeting Meeting Security Estates Business Data Governance KPI Financial Review Team Review Team Continuity Team Team SignOff Meeting governance review teams operational review meetings 66 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach audit committee The Committees key objective is to provide effective financial governance and to assist the Board in ensuring the integrity oftheGroups financial reporting.
The Committee oversees theexternal and internal audit processes and reviews the appropriateness of the Groups system of internal controls.
TheCommittee will continue to evolve its activities in the light ofguidance from regulators and prevailing economic conditions.
Audit Committee composition and meeting attendance during 2012 Name of director Position Meetings attended Kathleen ODonovan Senior Independent Director, Committee Chairman 6 6 Larry Hirst Independent non-executive director 5 6 Janice Roberts Independent non-executive director 6 6 Philip Rowley Independent non-executive director 6 6 Kathleen ODonovan has chaired the principal activities during 2012: Committee since January 2011.
She is qualified further work to enhance the Corporate as the Audit Committee financial expert as RiskRegister including increased linkage defined in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 US.
tooperational and internal audit plans, Philip Rowley is also qualified to fulfil this role.
givingthe Board greater visibility of risk Both have recent and relevant financial assessment and mitigation within the Group.
Theexternal auditors, Chief This enhanced the Boards understanding of Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the the level of residual risk and gave a greater VP Finance, ARM Group, the VP Business level of assurance.
It also enabled a better Assurance Head ofInternal Audit, the Head comparison with the risks that are applicable of Tax and the Company Secretary attend all to comparable companies.
The Board was meetings inorder to ensure that all the able to conclude from this that the steps information required by the Audit Committee being taken to mitigate risk are appropriate for it tooperate effectively is available.
The and that the level of residual risk is at an Group Chairman and other Board members acceptable level: also attend Audit Committee meetings from time to time.
reviewing the 2012 internal audit plans: Representatives of the Groups external reviewing the 2012 external audit plans and auditors have a private session with the Audit reports including overseas subsidiaries: Committee at the start of each meeting, without other management being present.
considering and approving the assumptions TheChairman of the Audit Committee also inthe annual goodwill impairment review, has separate meetings with the VP Business prior to approval by the full Board: Assurance Head of Internal Audit and the reviewing the status of Sarbanes-Oxley Chairman of the Risk Review Committee compliance and testing: during the year to discuss their ongoing workand any areas of concern.
considering any whistleblowing reports and following up on subsequent actions: During 2012 the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the external audit partner developing and implementing policy on the organised a meeting for the UK-based engagement of the external auditors to  LLP audit and tax supply non-audit services and assessing teams and the ARM finance and tax teams theirnature, extent and cost effectiveness: togive them some insights into how the Committee operates, the corporate assessing the external auditors independence governance environment and the Groups and objectivity, the effectiveness of the audit expectations from the internal and external process and fees: audit processes.
undertaking an assessment of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee whichtook place early in 2013 and concluded that its performance was effective.
67 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 monitoring the integrity of the financial of expressing an opinion under section 404 of the safeguards in place, and the contents of statements of the Group and any formal the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The results of those theTransparency Report, as well as noting announcements relating to the Groups theregular and recent rotation of the audit procedures were reported in January and financial performance and reviewing any partner, the Committee is satisfied that the February 2013.
No material misstatements significant financial reporting judgements: auditors procedures are sufficient to remained unadjusted in the financial statements.
reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups The Committee has also considered the level auditor effectiveness and internal controls over financial reporting: of non-audit fees and believes that these are partnerrotation ata level which does not compromise their providing oversight of the Groups risk  LLP have been the objectivity or independence in anyway.
management process: Groups auditors since it listed on the London There are no contractual obligations restricting Stock Exchange in April 1998.
The external making recommendations to the Board in the Groups choice of external auditor.
The auditors are required to rotate the audit relation to the appointment, remuneration Committee also keeps under review thevalue partner responsible for the Group and and resignation or dismissal of the Groups for money of the audit.
subsidiary audits every fifth year-end.
The audit external auditors: and partner rotation took place in accordance with policy on auditors providing considering compliance with legal this timetable after the conclusion of the 2011 non-auditservices requirements, accounting standards, the year-end audit, early in 2012.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services To avoid the possibility of the auditors objectivity Following this rotation,  Authority and the requirements of the SEC.
and independence being compromised, there LLPs internal review group undertook an is an agreed policy in place on the provision of assessment of audit process effectiveness.
non-audit services bythe auditors, which sets out financial reporting judgments: Thisinvolved in-depth interviews with the arrangements for approving: Each quarter, the Audit Committee reviewed Groups senior managers including the Group accounting papers prepared by management Chairman, the Chairman of the Audit services that have general pre-approval on areas of financial reporting judgment.
Committee, the Chief Executive Officer, the bythe Audit Committee: Theseincluded: Chief Finance Officer and the Company services that require specific pre-approval Secretary.
The resulting report was considered consideration of the accounting treatment bythe Audit Committee before work by the Audit Committee in July 2012. ofsubstantial transactions, including any commences: and judgemental matters in relation to revenue The Audit Committee considers that the services that cannot be provided by recognition for major licence contracts relationship with the auditors is working well theauditors.
withcustomers: and remains satisfied with their objectivity andeffectiveness.
consideration of the judgments surrounding This non-audit services policy is reviewed the goodwill impairment review performed in This view was further supported by a review of annually.
The Groups tax advisory work is the fourth quarter of 2012.
In light of the strong the effectiveness of the external audit process carried out by the auditors only in cases where performance of the PIPD business in the year which was undertaken early in 2013 involving they are deemed to be best suited to perform and a robust order backlog, the Committee Audit Committee members andsenior the work in a cost effective manner, given their was comfortable with managements managers who interact with the auditors.
It familiarity with the Groups business.
In other assessment that no reasonable variation in key looked at the robustness of the audit, quality cases, the Group has engaged another assumptions would impact the conclusion that of delivery and quality of people and service independent firm of accountants to perform tax no impairment in carrying value was required: and concluded that the services provided by advisory work.
The Group does not normally the auditors and their mode of delivery are consideration of managements judgment of award general consulting work to theauditors.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee has the level of provision required to be carried in From time to time, however, theGroup will not considered it necessary todate to require relation to ongoing litigation involving either the engage the auditors to perform work on matters the firm to tender for the audit work.
This Group or its licensees and in particular where situation will be kept under regular review.
relating to benchmarking of the internal audit the Group may be required to indemnify its function, human resources, and royalty audits.
licensees, including receiving regular updates auditor independence A breakdown of fees paid to the auditors can from the Groups General Counsel: and The auditors are required to and do be found in note 5 to the financial statements.
communicate with the Committee at least consideration of the key judgements made in annually whether there are any threats to their estimating the Groups tax charge.
independence and objectivity and, if there are, Kathleen ODonovan what safeguards have been applied.
The Audit Committee Chairman In July 2012, the external auditors explained Committee has also reviewed the auditors their programme of work to address the Transparency Report, paying particular significant risks of financial reporting attention to the sections covering internal misstatement, including the interaction with controls, independence policies and the results their work on internal control for the purposes of external regulator reviews.
Having reviewed 68 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach nomination committee The Committee, led for this purpose by the Senior Independent Director, was active in the early part of 2012 in finalising arrangements for the appointment of a new Chairman and I was delighted to join the Group in May 2012.
The Committees focus since then has been on defining the skills and attributes required for future non-executive director appointments and interviewing prospective candidates to replace Young Sohn, who retired at theend of 2012.
Our key objective is to ensure that the Board ismade up ofindividuals with the requisite skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that it is effective in discharging its duties.
Nomination Committee composition and meeting attendance during 2012 Name of director Position Meetings attended Sir John Buchanan Sir John Buchanan Chairman appointed 3 May 2012 4 4 Nomination Committee Chairman Kathleen ODonovan Senior Independent Director 6 6 Philip Rowley Independent non-executive director 6 6 Young Sohn Independent non-executive director retired 31 December 2012 6 6 Doug Dunn Chairman retired 3 May 2012 2 2 During the year, the activities of the The Nomination Committees general Committee included: responsibilities include: identifying suitable candidates for the leading the process for Board appointments roleofChairman, interviewing and and making recommendations to the Board recommending the appointment of in relation to new appointments of executive SirJohnBuchanan to the Board: and non-executive directors: engaging an external search firm to seek reviewing succession planning, Board andintroduce suitable candidates as a new composition and balance: and non-executive director and conducting considering the roles and capabilities interviews with a number of prospective required for each new appointment, based candidates: and on an evaluation of the skills and experience reviewing succession plans for the of the existing directors.
Kathleen ODonovan, in her capacity as the Senior Independent Director, led the process Sir John Buchanan for the appointment of the new Chairman and Nomination Committee Chairman chaired relevant meetings of the Nomination Committee.
The recruitment process involved a review by the Board of all aspects of the roleof Chairman, its requirements, board dynamics and how best the new Chairman should interact with the Board, theExecutive Committee, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Andy Green joined the Committee in February 2013.
His business and skills background will contribute valuable experience to our work.
69 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 corporate governance report internal control risk management issuers in 2006.
This is reported on in more risk review committee detail in the annual report on Form 20-F that The Group fully complies with the UK Membership of the Risk Review Committee isfiled with the SEC.
The processes and Corporate Governance Code 2010s was widened during 2012 to include the Chief procedures for identifying, evaluating and provisions on internal control, having Operating Officer and now consists of the Chief established procedures to implement in full the managing the significant business, operational, Technology Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: Revised financial, compliance and other risks facing the the Chief Operating Officer, the VP Finance, Guidance for Directors on the Combined Group have been successfully integrated into ARM Group, the VP Business Assurance Head Code.
The Groups risks are managed within day-to-day business operations through our of Internal Audit and the Company Secretary.
a systematic process of risk identification and The Committee established a Corporate Risk internal control system.
This is known as assessment.
The detailed risk management Register CRR some years ago, within which theARM Management System and is process is explained in the Risk Management corporate risks are identified and assessed.
provento provide a sustainable solution section on pages 52 to 54.
The CRR includes a description of the risk, forongoing compliance.
identifies the owner, the inherent probability The Audit Committee is responsible for The ARM Management System, which covers and impact of that risk occurring, the Groups ensuring that the risk management process financial, compliance and operational controls, current processes and internal control isoperating effectively.
The Executive is fully documented and compliance is activities, remaining residual risk and the Committee and the Board review the risk monitored through periodic controls testing planned activities to further mitigate it.
The Board confirms during each year.
The effectiveness of individual that the necessary actions have been or are Common business risks and company specific controls is also reviewed with their owners being taken to remedy any significant failings risks are examined for relevance to the Group.
within the divisions and functions to ensure orweaknesses identified from this process Relevant risks are entered onto the CRR and efficacy and relevance.
The Business Assurance inatimely manner.
Risks are classified against function reports on the status ofthe ARM probability assessment criteria and impact Management System to the AuditCommittee The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring assessment criteria.
TheCompliance and that the Group maintains an adequatesystem Audit Committees alsomonitor the ofinternal control and riskmanagement and The Groups ongoing operations may mitigate satisfactory remediation ofany identified forreviewing its effectiveness, while the probability and or the impact of the risk.
control issues with Group level significance.
implementation of internalcontrol systems is However, there will be some level of residual the responsibility ofmanagement.
The Group risk, and the risk owner determines the extent The Board has reviewed and approved the has implemented an internal control system to which the residual risk is at an acceptable system of internal control, including internal designed to helpensure: level, or whether further action isrequired.
controls over the consolidation process and Residual risks that are not at anacceptable financial reporting, which have been in place level, are required to have an action plan that the effective and efficient operation of for the year under review and up to the date further reduces the probability ofthe risk theGroup and its divisions by enabling ofapproval of the Annual report and financial occurring and or itsimpact.
Riskmanagement management to respond appropriately to statements.
These controls consist of extensive action plans are managed within the relevant significant risks to achieving the Groups reviews by qualified and  operational plans of the divisions and business objectives: underpinned by asystem of checklists that corporate functions.
ensures that all elements of thefinancial the safeguarding of assets from inappropriate statements and appropriate disclosures are The Risk Review Committee typically meets use or from loss and fraud andensuring that considered andaccurately stated.
on a quarterly basis to review the CRR and liabilities are identified andmanaged: identify other risks that needto be Control systems are designed to manage the quality of internal and external reporting: incorporated.
Each risk owner isrequired rather than eliminate the risks inherent in a toreview and demonstrate that residual fast-moving, high-technology business and can, compliance with applicable laws and risksare being appropriately mitigated therefore, provide only reasonable and not regulations and with internal policies on viatheoperational plans.
absolute assurance against material theconduct of the Groups business: and misstatement or loss.
The divisions and corporate functions the ability to recover in a timely manner operational plans are updated quarterly.
remuneration committee fromthe effects of disasters or major Changes that could impact the CRR are accidents which originate outside the A description of the composition, reviewed by the Committee.
responsibilities and operation of the Remuneration Committee is set out The Committee reports formally on the CRR intheRemuneration report.
to the Executive Committee twice a year Compliance with section 404 of the where its findings are considered and Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 US has been The Group has a number of other committees challenged.
It also reports to the Board and successfully achieved for each financial year and bodies which contribute to the overall tothe Audit Committee at least once a year since it became effective for foreign private control environment.
These include: and provides periodic updates to the AuditCommittee.
70 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach The Board and the Audit Committee receive Business Review Meeting chaired by the programme.
The management system is copies of the minutes ofRisk Review ChiefOperating Officer, the purpose of audited externally by Lloyds Register Committee meetings.
whichistomonitor and control all main QualityAssurance for compliance with business activities, revenue forecasts and other therequirements of ISO 9001:2008, ISO This gives the Board greater visibility of the mattersrequiring approval.
Through this 27001:2005, ISO 22301:2012 and as part of range of risks, the ways in which such risks structure management reviews with itsBusiness Assurance scheme supports the aremitigated and an assessment of the level representatives from the divisions and Sarbanes-Oxley compliance activity.
and acceptability of residual risk.
functions revenues, orders booked, costs, Any significant control failings identified through product and project delivery dates and levels The Board reviewed its risk appetite during the internal audit function or the independent of defects found in products in development.
2012 and confirmed that the level of residual risk auditors are brought to the attention of the The outputs of these meetings are reviewed is regarded as acceptable and within normal Compliance Committee and undergo a detailed by the Operations Committee which escalates parameters for a company operating within process of evaluation of both the failing and the relevant issues to the Executive Committee ARMs sphere of business.
A further Board steps taken to remedy it.
There is then a process which, in turn, raises relevant issues with the review of risk appetite is scheduled for2013.
for communication of any significant control Board of the Group.
failures to the Audit Committee.
There were More information on industry trends and During 2012 the structure, process and no significant control failures during 2012 or up associated risks and opportunities are included reporting arrangements for the committees, to 25 February 2013, being the latest practicable in the Risk Management section on pages 52 eight Governance Review Teamsand three date before the printing of this report.
to54 and in the Annual Report on Form 20-F Operational Review meetings were improved for the year ended 31December 2012 Whistleblowing procedures and formalised.
These Governance Review whichisavailable onthe Groups website The Group operates a whistleblowing policy Teams and Operational Review meetings all atwww.
which provides for employees to report report totheOperations Committee which in concerns about any unethical business practices compliance committee turnreports to the Executive Committee.
to senior management in strict confidence or, The Compliance Committee membership was internal audit function ifthey prefer, anonymously through an widened during 2012 to include the VP The Group has an internal audit function independent third-party telephone line.
Operations and now consists of the General thatmeets criteria set out in the key practice Theycan do so without fear of recrimination.
Counsel, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief standards prescribed by the Institute of The Audit Committee receives details of any Financial Officer, the EVP, Human Resources, Internal Auditors.
The internal audit function such confidential reports from the Compliance the VP Business Assurance Head of Internal undertook a range of financial and operational Committee.
There were two whistleblowing Audit, the Chief Information Officer, the VP audits in line with the plan agreed with the reports in 2012, neither of which was of a Operations and the Company Secretary.
Additional resource was serious nature.
Both were investigated oversees compliance throughout the business provided by co-sourcing arrangements in 2012 thoroughly: one required no further action and with all relevant international regulations, and this will continue in 2013. the other was resolved by reinforcing existing trading requirements and standards, including policies.
There have been no whistleblowing direct oversight of financial, employment, health At the start of 2012, the Group successfully reports in 2013 up to 25February 2013, being and safety, environmental, business continuity achieved certification for ISO 27001, the the latest practicable date before the printing and security processes and policies.
international standard for Information Security of this report.
The third-party telephone line is Management and this was maintained disclosure committee tested to ensure that employees can use it if throughout the year.
During 2012, the Group they have occasion to.
The Disclosure Committee comprises the also successfully achieved certification for ISO Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial 22301, the international standard for Business anti-bribery and anti-corruption Officer, the VP Finance, ARM Group, the Continuity Management.
measures General Counsel, the VP Investor Relations The Groups Code of Business Conduct and and the Company Secretary.
It is responsible The Groups Management System documents Ethics, which is available on the Groups for ensuring that disclosures made by the processes and responsibilities across all website, and the Company Rules incorporate Group to its shareholders and the investment business functions and operations.
As an appropriate provisions to meet our obligations community are accurate, complete and fairly autonomous part of this system, the internal under the UK Bribery Act 2010.
An enhanced present the Groups financial condition in all audit function carries out a programme of training and communication programme was material respects.
audits to assess its effectiveness and efficiency, developed during 2012 and is in place to ensure resulting in continuous maintenance and management structure that employees understand the requirements improvement of the system, adapting to of the Act and the reporting procedures.
In addition, there are various committees, changes in business operations as necessary.
Thisis targeted at employees inroles or Governance Review Teams and Operational To demonstrate compliance with the working in countries that are regarded as Review Meetings that span the Group, as Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the internal audit higher risk.
Arrangements withcontractors shown in the management structure chart function also maintains the documented and suppliers have been andwill continue onpage 66.
These include the regular controls over financial reporting and confirms tobe reviewed and updated to reflect the Executive Committee meetings chaired by the operation of them either by direct testing requirements of the Act.
TheCompliance theChief Executive Officer and the weekly or through a monitored self assessment 71 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Committee oversees the reporting procedures The Group and our Partners are seeing the nominated for a number of other awards and monitors and escalates reports in benefits of our University Programme, as based on its environmental credentials.
There were no students graduate with experience in designing The Group has also partnered with AquaMV, reports of concern during 2012 or up to with ARM products and as university Enlight and Photonstar to incorporate building 25February 2013, being the latest practicable engineering departments base their own technologies into its offices in Cambridge to date before the printing of this report.
improve environmental performance and use human rights and equal opportunities environmental, social, corporate energy-efficient ARM technology.
Areas such as lighting control and environmental governance and ethical policies The Group has signed the Universal monitoring of plant for improved building Declaration of Human Rights and has While the Group is accountable to its efficiency are being developed with these integrated relevant human rights principles shareholders, it also endeavours to take into partners and will be extended to other key intoits policies for employees and contractors.
account the interests of all its stakeholders, sites from 2013.
The Group enhanced its TheGroup strives for equal opportunities for including employees, customers and suppliers environmental data collection and reporting all its employees and does not tolerate any and the local communities and environments ability during 2012 and this supports the work harassment of, or discrimination against, its in which it operates.
The Chief Executive of the new Energy Use and Climate Change staff.
The Group endeavours to be honest Officer and the Chief Financial Officer take Committee that has been formed to drive andfair in its relationships with its customers responsibility for these matters, which are improvements in environmental performance and suppliers and to be a good corporate considered at Board level.
and to provide recommendations on citizen respecting the laws of the countries A Corporate Responsibility CR summary is improving the Groups green credentials inwhich it operates.
included in this report on pages 40 to 44 and a totheExecutive Committee.
university programme more detailed report is available via the Groups The Groups environmental policy is published website www.
ARMs University Programme is an important on its website within the CR report.
In line TheGroup regularly monitors employees initiative for the future of the Group and our with the Companies Act 2006, the articles awareness of Group policies and procedures, relationships with business partners.
The ofassociation enable the Group to send including its conduct and ethical policies.
Group engages with universities around the information to shareholders electronically Employees and temporary contractors world, developing the next generation of ARM andmake documents available through the reconfirm their understanding ofkey policies engineers, donating equipment and software, website rather than in hard copy, which each year to help reinforce awareness.
helping to design courses and textbooks and provide both environmental and cost benefits.
providing technical support and training to The Group operates from a global portfolio of Shareholders can opt to continue receiving students and faculties.
In 2012, following a offices with a total in excess of 500,000 sq ft aprinted copy ofthe Annual Report, subject thorough selection process, the Group located in 13 countries.
The portfolio is made to availability.
appointed a new University Programme up entirely of offices since the Group has no manager with a strong UK University health and safety manufacturing activities.
As such there are background, who joined in January 2013.
The Group operates in an industry and in nohazardous substances nor complex waste environments which are considered low risk streams to be managed as part of our business The Group is seeking to increase the scalability from a health and safety perspective.
The Groups principal activity of the University Programme through Howeverthe safety and welfare of employees, involves the use of IT based engineering tools to partnership.
This partnership strategy was contractors and visitors is a priority in all create intellectual property.
With the exception afocus area in 2012 with exploratory Group workplaces worldwide.
The Group of development systems products, the majority discussions which will result in the addition continues to improve its management of products sold by the Group comprise ofindustry partners during 2013.
The systemsin this area with an audit programme microprocessor core and physical IPdesigns partnership programme is supported by the that includes external auditing of processes that are delivered electronically tocustomers.
development of high quality course materials and offices.
during 2012, resulting in a more attractive The Groups ongoing environmental impact offering to any members of the academic More detail about the Groups approach to analysis informs management about key community wishing to migrate their courses to environmental matters and health and safety environmental factors and how it can reduce the ARM architecture during 2013. isincluded in the CR report.
the impacts associated with them.
As a business whose day-to-day activities require 2012 saw increased focus on universities in business model reliable and advanced compute resource, China and India, resulting in some increase A detailed description of ARMs business theGroup commissioned a new state of the ofARM architecture adoption in course model is set out on page 6. art data centre at its Cambridge UK campus materials and increased donations by the in2012.
Specified to incorporate best practice Group of equipment and software to By order of the Board solutions, the data centre has been awarded University labs.
This regional focus is agold CEEDA Certified Energy Efficient Data continuing in 2013 with increased attention Centre Award for its energy efficiency, with tothe role of Government in influencing the Patricia Alsop aprojected annualised efficiency ratio PUE processor architecture choices of universities.
It won European Data Centre of the Year 2012 and has been 72 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach Directors Directors report report The following additional disclosures are made in compliance with the Companies Act 2006, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010.
Description of operations, principal Future developments activities and review of business The Groups stated objective is to establish The principal operations and activities of the aglobal standard for its RISC architecture, Group and its subsidiaries are the licensing, physical IP and other products in the marketing, research and development of embedded microprocessor and RISCbased microprocessors, fabric system IP, semiconductor markets.
The directors graphics processors, physical IP and associated believethat, in order to achieve this goal, it is systems IP, software and tools.
The nature important to expand the number and range ofthe global semiconductor industry is such ofpotential customers for its technology.
that most of the Groups business originates The Group intends to enter into licence overseas and, to serve its customers better, agreements with new customers and the Group has sales offices around the world.
toincrease the range of new technology These include eight offices in the US and supplied to existing customers.
Relationships offices in Shanghai, Shenzhen and Beijing, PR will continue to be established with thirdparty China: ShinYokohama, Japan: Seoul, South tools and software vendors to ensure that Korea: Taipei, Taiwan: Kfar Saba, Israel: Paris, their products will operate with the Groups France: Grasbrunn, Germany and Bangalore, products.
As a result of its position in the India.
Design offices are based in Cambridge, semiconductor industry, the Group is Sheffield and Blackburn, UK: Sophia Antipolis presented with many opportunities to acquire and Grenoble, France: Grasbrunn, Germany: complementary technology or resources and Trondheim, Norway: Sentjernej, Slovenia: it intends to continue to make appropriate Lund, Sweden: Austin, Texas: Olympia, investments and acquisitions from Washington and San Jose, California in the timetotime.
US:Shanghai, PR China: Hsinchu, Taiwan andBangalore, India.
Going concern After dividend payments of 51.8 million More information about the business, its andthe contribution of $167.5 million to operations and key performance indicators theconsortium to acquire rights to MIPS are set out in the Overview and Our Technologies, Incs portfolio of patents in 2012, marketplace sections on pages 1 to 10, the thehighly cash generative nature of the Financial review incorporating a section on business enabled the Group to increase Risk management on pages 52 to 54, and in the itscash, cash equivalents and deposits to Corporate responsibility summary on pages 520.2 million net of accrued interest 40 to 44.
The Groups statement oncorporate of7.4million at the end of 2012.
This was governance can be found in the Corporate anincrease from 424.0 million net of accrued governance report on pages 62 to72 of these interest of 5.0 million at the start of the year.
The Risk management The consortium transaction received MIPS section oftheFinancial review and the Technologies, Incs shareholder approval on Corporate Governance report form part of 6February 2013.
After reviewing the 2013 this sectionand are incorporated into it by budget and longer term plans and considering cross reference.
any reasonably likely scenarios that may occur, the directors are satisfied that, at the time ofapproving the financial statements, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of both the Group andtheparent Company.
73 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Dividends Donations re-election of directors The directors recommend payment of During the year the Group made donations As previously announced, Mike Inglis is retiring afinaldividend in respect of the year to for charitable purposes of 276,811 from the Board on 31 March 2013.
The total amounts given for other directors will be standing for reelection which, subject to approval at the AGM on each such purpose were: at the 2013 AGM.
In line with the provisions 2May 2013, will be paid on 17 May 2013 to ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, shareholders on the register on 19 April 2013. all directors will present themselves for Promotion of education 141,954 This final dividend, combined with the interim reelection annually if eligible unless the Relief of poverty 55,268 dividend of 1.67 pence per share paid in directors have agreed otherwise.
Other 39,046 October 2012, makes a total of 4.5 pence per See pages 59 to 61 for the biographies Medical research 26,546 share for the year, an increase of 29% onthe ofthedirectors at the date of this report.
Local charities 13,997 total dividend of 3.48 pence per share for 2011.
Total 276,811 The interests of the directors in the share buyback programme Companys ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, No share buybacks were undertaken in 2012 ARMs investment of 2.5 million in an allof which were beneficially held, are and no shares have been repurchased to date interestfree charitable bond in Future disclosed in the Remuneration report.
The rolling authority to buyback Business, made in 2010, remains in place.
shares given by the shareholders at the AGM Future Business is a Cambridgebased social The directors have the benefit of directors in May 2012 remains in place and a resolution enterprise, which provides business advice, and officers liability insurance.
to authorise the directors to make purchases coaching and affordable workspace to Appointment of directors in appropriate circumstances will be proposed entrepreneurs, startup businesses, charities ARM shareholders may by ordinary resolution at the 2013 AGM.
appoint any person to be a director.
ARM ARM employees are encouraged to offer research and development r&D must have not less than two and no more than theirtime and expertise to help charities 16 directors holding office at all times.
ARM R&D is of major importance and, as part of andother groups in need.
The Group may by ordinary resolution from time to time itsresearch activities, the Group collaborates operates a Matching Gift Donation vary the minimum and or maximum number closely with universities worldwide and plans programme for individual employees of directors.
to continue its successful engagement with fundraising efforts.
TheGroup does not Michigan University.
Key areas of product The directors may appoint a director to fill makeany political donations.
development for 2013 include the acasual vacancy or as an additional director development of further energyefficient, Directors in the year tohold office until the next AGM, who shall highperformance processors such as ARM then be eligible for election.
The following served as directors of cores based on symmetric multicore and theCompany during the year ended superscalar technology.
The Group is investing 31 December 2012: in future physical IP development including lowpower, lowleakage technologies for both Sir John Buchanan Chairman appointed bulk CMOS complementary metal oxide 3 May 2012 semiconductor and SOI silicon on insulator Warren East Chief Executive Officer processes to ensure leadership in this market.
Tim Score Chief Financial Officer In addition, the Group will continue to develop Mike Muller Chief Technology Officer and deliver tools, graphics processors and Mike Inglis Chief Commercial Officer system IP to enable its customers to design Simon Segars President andprogramme SoCs.
Andy Green independent nonexecutive director The Group incurred R&D expenses Larry Hirst CBE independent nonexecutive of166.3million in 2012, representing 29% director ofrevenues, compared with 165.4 million Kathleen ODonovan Senior Independent in2011, representing 34% of revenues.
R&D Director and financial expert expenses have been charged in full to the Janice Roberts independent nonexecutive income statement since the requirements for director capitalisation were not met.
The requirements Philip Rowley independent nonexecutive for capitalisation are considered in more detail director and financial expert in note 1 to the financial statements.
Doug Dunn former Chairman retired 3 May 2012 Tudor Brown former President retired 3 May 2012 Young Sohn former independent nonexecutive director retired 31 December 2012 74 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach share capital There are no restrictions on the transfer Articles of association ofordinary shares in ARM other than: At 31 December 2012, ARMs share capital ARMs articles of association may be amended comprised a single class of ordinary shares only by a special resolution at a general restrictions that may from time to time of0.05 pence each and there were meeting of shareholders.
beimposed by laws and regulations for 1,380,768,350 ordinary shares in issue, none Directors authority example, those relating to market abuse ofwhich were held in treasury 2011: no andinsider dealing : The directors are responsible for the sharesheld in treasury.
The rights attached management of the business of ARM and totreasury shares are restricted in accordance restrictions that may be imposed pursuant mayexercise all powers of ARM subject to with the Companies Act.
tothe Listing Rules of the Financial Services applicable legislation and regulation and the Authority under which certain employees of The rights attached to ordinary shares are articles of association.
ARM require the approval of the Company asfollows: to deal in shares: At the 2012 AGM, the directors were given 1.
On a show of hands at a general meeting, authority to buyback a maximum number restrictions on the transfer of shares that every shareholder present in person of137,579,000 ordinary shares at a minimum may be imposed under article 61.2 of ARMs or, in thecase of a corporation, present at price of 0.05 pence each.
The maximum price articles of association or under Part 22 of the themeeting by way of a representative and was an amount equal to 105% of the average Companies Act 2006, in either case following entitled to vote shall have one vote and every of the closing midmarket prices of ARMs a failure to supply information required to be proxy present who has been duly appointed ordinary shares as derived from the London disclosed following service of a request under by a shareholder entitled to vote on the Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five section 793 of the Companies Act 2006: and resolution shall have one vote: business days immediately preceding the day on which such ordinary shares are contracted restrictions on transfer of shares held under 2.
On a poll, every shareholder present to be purchased.
This authority will expire at certain of the Companys employee share inperson or in the case of a corporation, the earlier of the conclusion of the 2013 AGM plans while they remain subject to the plan.
present at the meeting by way of a or 30 June 2013. representative or by proxy and entitled tovote shall have one vote for every ordinary substantial shareholdings Accordingly, resolution 19 will be proposed share held: asa special resolution at the 2013 AGM The directors are aware of the following togiveARM authority to acquire up to substantial interests in the issued share capital 3.
Shareholders are entitled to a dividend 139,650,000 ordinary shares following expiry of the Company as at 25 February 2013: where declared or paid out of profits available of the current authority.
The directors will use for such purposes: and Percentage of this authority only after careful consideration, issued ordinary 4.
Shareholders are entitled to participate taking into account market conditions share capital inareturn of capital on a windingup.
prevailing at the time, other investment The Capital Group Companies, Inc 6.9 opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and Blackrock, Inc 5.0 The notice of the AGM specifies deadlines the overall position of ARM.
Inparticular, this Thornburg Investment Management 5.0 forexercising voting rights and appointing authority will be exercised only if the directors Fidelity Management and Research aproxy or proxies to vote in relation to believe that it is in the best interests of Corporation 5.0 resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
All shareholders generally and will increase Legal and General Investment proxy votes are counted and the numbers earnings per share.
Management 3.8 for, against or withheld in relation to each Janus Capital Management LLC 3.6 resolution are announced at the AGM and published on ARMs website after the meeting.
Save for the above, the Company has not beennotified, as at 25 February 2013, ofanymaterial interest of 3% or more or anynonmaterial interest exceeding 10% oftheissued share capital of the Company.
75 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Resolution 17 to be proposed at the 2013 Diversity Financial instruments AGM will authorise the directors generally to The Group is committed to employment The Groups financial risk management and allot up to 230,424 in nominal amount of policies, which follow best practice, based policies and exposure to risks in relation to ordinary shares and, in addition, will authorise onequal opportunities for all employees, financial instruments are detailed in note 1c.
the directors to allot up to a further 230,424 irrespective of sex, race, colour, disability essential contracts in nominal amount of ordinary shares in ormarital status.
The Group has a strong connection with a rights issue as defined in There are a large number of contracts in place demand for highly qualified staff and disability resolution 17.
Further, resolution 18 will with the Groups Partners, some of which isnot seen to be an inhibitor to employment authorise the directors to allot ordinary shares aredescribed in more detail in the Our or career development.
Appropriate or sell treasury shares for cash i otherwise partnership approach section starting on arrangements are made for the continued than in connection with a preemptive offer page 21.
There are no parties with whom employment and training, career development as defined in resolution 18 up to an aggregate theGroup has contractual or other and promotion of disabled persons employed nominal amount of34,912 or ii in connection arrangements which are essential to the by the Group.
In the event of any staff becoming with a preemptive offer up to an aggregate business of the Group.
disabled while with the Group, theirneeds and nominal amount of 34,912, or iii in abilities would be assessed and the Group There is one Company which accounted for connection with a rights issue up to a further would, where possible, seek to offer alternative 15% of Group revenues in 2012 2011: 11%, nominal amount of 34,912, in each case as employment to them if they were no longer which is referred to in note 2 on page 116. ifsection 561 1 ofthe Companies Act 2006 able to continue in their current role.
did not apply to such allotment or sale.
Annual General Meeting AGM employee involvement Theperiod of authorisation will in each case The AGM will be held at 110 Fulbourn Road, expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the As the Group is an IP enterprise, it is vital that Cambridge CB1 9NJ, UK, on 2 May 2013 at 2014 AGM oron 30 June 2014. all levels of staff are consulted and involved 2.00pm.
A presentation will be made at this inits decisionmaking processes.
To this end, Qualifying indemnity provision meeting outlining recent developments in internal conferences and communications thebusiness.
All voting at the meeting will be Article 139 of the Companys articles of meetings are held regularly which involve conducted on a poll where every shareholder association provides for the indemnification employees from all parts of the Group present in person or by proxy will have one ofdirectors of the Company against liability indiscussions on future strategy and vote for each share of which they are the incurred by them in certain situations, and is developments.
The Group will convey the results aqualifying indemnity provision within the ownership is encouraged and all employees ofthe poll on the website after the AGM.
meaning of section 236 of the Companies are able to participate in one of the Groups Shareholders are invited to submit written Act2006.
schemes to encourage share ownership.
questions in advance of the meeting.
TheGroup has an informal and delegated The qualifying indemnity was in force during Questions should be sent to The Company organisation structure.
It does not presently the financial year and up to the date of signing Secretary, ARM Holdings plc, 110 Fulbourn operate any collective agreements with any the Annual Report.
change of control A resolution to reappoint Information about the Groups employees and  LLP as auditors All of ARMs equitybased plans contain policies are contained in the Remuneration tothe Group will be proposed at the AGM.
provisions relating to a change of control.
report, the Our commitment section Details of other resolutions to be proposed Outstanding awards and options would andthe Corporate Governance report.
atthe meeting are set out in the Circular normally vest and become exercisable on Information about environmental matters, andNotice of AGM 2013 which will be made achange of control, subject to the satisfaction social and community policies and their available to all shareholders together with ofany performance conditions at that time.
effectiveness is contained in the Our aproxy card.
commitment section and in the full There are no significant agreements to which Corporate Responsibility report available ARM is a party that take effect, alter or onour website.
terminate upon a change of control.
policy on payment of creditors The Groups policy is to pay suppliers before the end of the month following the month of receipt of the invoice, unless alternative terms have been specifically agreed in advance.
Thispolicy and any specific terms agreed with suppliers are made known to the appropriate staff and to suppliers on request.
Trade creditors of the Group at 31 December 2012 were equivalent to 15 days purchases for theGroup 2011: 27 days and nil days for theCompany 2011: nil.
76 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for keeping Disclosure of information to auditors adequate accounting records that are sufficient The directors are responsible for preparing In the case of each director in office at the date to show and explain the Companys the annual report, the Remuneration report the Directors report is approved, that: transactions and disclose with reasonable and the financial statements in accordance a so far as the director is aware, there is accuracy at any time the financial position with applicable law and regulations.
norelevant audit information of which the ofthe Company and the Group and enable Company law requires the directors to Companys auditors are unaware: and them to ensure that the financial statements prepare financial statements for each financial and the Remuneration report comply with b the director has taken all the steps that year.
Under that law the directors have theCompanies Act 2006 and, as regards heor she ought to have taken as a director prepared the Group financial statements in theGroup financial statements, Article 4 ofthe inorder to make themselves aware of any accordance with International Financial IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for relevant audit information and to establish Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by safeguarding the assets of the Company and thatthe Companys auditors are aware of theEuropean Union, and the parent Company the Group and hence for taking reasonable thatinformation.
financial statements in accordance with United steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting and other irregularities.
Practice United Kingdom Accounting The directors are responsible for the By order of the Board Standards and applicable law.
Under company maintenance and integrity of the Annual law the directors must not approve the Report included on the Groups website financial statements unless they are satisfied inaccordance with the United Kingdom that they give a true and fair view of the state Patricia Alsop legislation governing the preparation and of affairs of the Group and the Company and Company Secretary dissemination of financial statements.
of the profit or loss of the Group for that Legislation in the United Kingdom governing ArM Holdings plc period.
In preparing these financial statements, the preparation and dissemination of financial Company Number: 2548782 the directors are required to: statements may differ from legislation in otherjurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the biographies on make judgments and accounting estimates pages59 to 61 confirm that, to the best that are reasonable and prudent: oftheir knowledge: state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK the Group financial statements, which have Accounting Standards have been followed, been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as subject to any material departures disclosed adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view and explained in the Group and parent of the assets, liabilities, financial position and Company financial statements profit of the Group: and respectively:and this Directors report on pages 73 to 77 prepare the financial statements on the going andthe Financial review and the Risk concern basis unless it is inappropriate to management sections on pages 46 to 54 presume that the Company will continue includes a fair review of the development inbusiness.
andperformance of the business and theposition of the Group, together with adescription of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
77 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 reMunerAtion report remuneration committee design company, and also to tie pay to performance.
At the same time the Executive pay is rightly the subject of increased Committee worked to ensure that the focus both for shareholders and the wider Groups overall remuneration packages will be public and ARMs Remuneration Committee able to attract, retain and motivate people.
ismindful ofthis and of the consultation papers issued during 2012 by the UK Governments Key decisions on remuneration taken in department of Business Innovation and Skills relation to 2012 include: BIS.
The final BIS regulations are expected in April 2013 and we will review these carefully.
approval of an average executive team base pay increase of 4.0% for 2012 and 3.85% We have changed the format of this report a for2013 compared to the average increases little this year to provide increased transparency for the workforce as a whole of 4.7% for and clarity on past pay and future policy.
Philip Rowley 2012 and 4.7% for 2013: Wehave also given full consideration to Remuneration Committee Chairman theprinciples set out in the UK Corporate continuing the practice of setting stretching Governance Code 2010, the Listing Rules of performance targets for the LTIP and DAB the Financial Services Authority and the ABI Plan which will operate for the last time in Principles of Remuneration published in 2013 and, subject to shareholder approval, November 2012. will be replaced by the new Long Term Incentive Plan in 2014: The main activity for the Committee during 2012 was the development of the proposed approval of increased disclosure new Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and arrangements in circumstances where an consultation thereon with major shareholders executive retires to ensure that vesting of and representative bodies.
This will be put to accrued benefits under thecurrent DAB Plan shareholders for approval at the 2013 AGM and LTIP happens only on genuine retirement and is planned to take effect in 2014 and for from full time commercial employment : and any new hires after May 2013.
The consultation involved physical meetings, telephone approval of the structure of the new LTIP conference calls and written responses and we andconsultation with major shareholders.
were heartened by the positive feedback and general support for the proposals.
Above all Notwithstanding the tough market conditions the new plan, which will replace both the that continued during 2012, the minimum existing LTIP and the Deferred Annual Bonus targets, established three years ago under Plan DAB Plan, is intended to provide both the LTIP and DAB Plan were exceeded greater simplicity, a longer holding period and our teams have been rewarded for their forshares and an increased individual performance as detailed in the following shareholding requirement for participants.
It is encouraging that shareholders Adetailed description of these proposals is have been supportive of our remuneration setout in this report and in the accompanying policies to date and the Remuneration report Circular to Shareholders.
received a 97.4% vote in favour at the 2012 AGM.
We take an active interest in investors The approach of the Committee in preparing views, which we have been able to discuss for the work of developing the new LTIP was directly with the larger shareholders through to spend time understanding the key elements the new LTIP consultation and we have sought of the developing debate about executive pay, to accommodate their feedback as far as and also considering other research, for possible and to follow best practice in the example into understanding how executives design of the proposed new LTIP.
value longterm rather than shortterm pay.
Itwas generally considered that the current LTIP had served the Group well, and one option could have therefore been to continue Philip Rowley with a similar structure.
However the Remuneration Committee Chairman Committee wanted to ensure that certain objectives were met, including simplicity, matching the payment cycle to the business cycle, which is quite long as a semiconductor 78 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach remuneration committee operation of the remuneration committee In this section we describe the composition and activities of the Committee during 2012.
The Chief Executive Officer and the EVP, Human Resources attend each meeting for Remuneration Committee composition atleast part of the time to ensure that the andmeeting attendance during 2012 Committee is able to obtain their views on the Name of director Position Total number level of compensation for executive directors of Meetings and other senior executives, although they are Meetings not present when their own remuneration is attended discussed.
The Company Secretary advises Philip Rowley Independent 5 5 theCommittee on corporate governance nonexecutive director guidelines and acts as Secretary to Committee Chairman theCommittee.
Andy Green Independent 5 5 nonexecutive director The principal items of business discussed at the Larry Hirst Independent 5 5 five Committee meetings during 2012 were: nonexecutive director Young Sohn Independent 5 5 reviewing total compensation packages for nonexecutive director retired 31 December 2012 the executive directors and senior executives of the Group including approval of 2012 base Given their diverse business experience, the salaries and vesting of 2009 LTIP and DAB independent nonexecutive directors who Plan awards.
This included oversight of the made up the Committee in 2012 offer a Groups salary review process for senior balanced view and international expertise executives to ensure consistency of inrelation to remuneration matters for the application.
The Committee also reviews Group.
Janice Roberts joined the Committee in executive remuneration in the context of pay February 2013 and will add valuable expertise, and benefits for the workforce as a whole: particularly on US compensation matters.
development of the new LTIP proposals, consultation with major shareholders external advisers andrepresentative bodies and feedback The Committee has access to independent tothe Board: professional advice and Towers Watson were appointed as advisers to the Committee in approval of retirement arrangements under 2010 and advised on current market practice, the LTIP and DAB Plan for individuals wishing in particular in connection with the proposed to retire, in particular Tudor Brown and Mike new LTIP.
Other advisers who provided Inglis.
Forretirements in 2013 onwards, these services during 2012 were: include disclosure of future intentions to the Committee, noncompetition undertakings KPMG who provided general advice on and clawback arrangements in order to be remuneration and benefits, including tax treated as good leavers on retirement: advice for employees who are seconded agreeing the remuneration of the overseas.
They also provided royalty newChairman: auditservices: setting the 2012 LTIP and DAB Plan Linklaters, Norton Rose and Slaughter and performance measures and targets: and May who provided legal services in relation to equity plans and corporate matters: reviewing the Remuneration report to shareholders, prior to its approval by the Deloitte who provided salary survey data, Board and by shareholders at the AGM.
royalty audit services and tax training: and Kepler Associates who provided The Committees terms of reference independent verification of Total Shareholder arepublished on the corporate website Return TSR calculations for the LTIP.
Advisers are usually appointed by the EVP, Human Resources and are reviewed and approved by the Committee.
The EVP, HumanResources also provided advice totheCommittee in 2012.
79 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 remuneration policy The Committee believes that it is important toselect an appropriate peer group and The Group operates a remuneration policy methodology for comparator group purposes.
and framework for executive directors For the existing and new LTIPs, TSR designed to ensure that it attracts, retains and calculations are based on comparisons motivates high calibre people with the skills withthe FTSE 350 and the FTSE All World necessary to achieve its goal of sustained Technology Index.
It is recognised that there growth in corporate performance.
We believe are differing views among shareholders and that this sustained growth can be successfully representative bodies on whether one or achieved only with a high level of employee twoindices should be used and, after due engagement and motivation.
Our policy seeks consideration, the Committee believes that to provide rewards and incentives for the there is merit in the continued use of these remuneration of executive directors that two indices.
The FTSE All World Technology reflect their performance and align with the Index is not aperfect comparator for ARM objectives of the Group.
These comprise due to the fairly unique nature of our business amixof performancerelated and model in the technology world and the FTSE  remuneration.
350 is a better UKcomparator index due to TheCommittee believes that a directors total the small number of technology companies in remuneration should be monitored against the FTSE100.
their worth in the external market and, to this end, obtains information from independently proposed changes to executive published remuneration surveys, benchmarks directors remuneration from 2014 the total remuneration package and applies The existing LTIP approved in 2003 is due to the following principles: expire in 2013.
Therefore the Committee took the opportunity in 2012 to review its entire base salaries are set at a relatively approach to executive pay, where the current modestlevel: arrangements have been in place since 2006 a significant amount i. e. more than 80% when the DAB Plan was introduced.
oftotal potential remuneration is Theobjective of the review was to ensure performancerelated: thatARMs approach remains fit for purpose over the next phase of its development.
there should be reward for performance TheCommittee concluded that a number butnot for failure with an opportunity for of modifications would be appropriate in an upside for exceptional performance: effort to both simplify the elements of total remuneration and more closely align the benchmarking provides a useful reference arrangements with ARMs longer term point but not a target range for salaries business cycle.
orother benefits: The proposed changes which are planned to a significant element of performancerelated take effect in 2014 and for any new hires after remuneration is provided in the form of May 2013 will not result in any increases to the shares: maximum quantum of rewarddelivered via elements of performancerelated variable the new LTIP.
remuneration are subject to deferral: and the performance of divisional general managers is measured both at division andGroup level.
The Committee is able to consider corporate performance on environmental, social and corporate governance issues when setting the remuneration of executive directors.
80 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach Pay element Current policy Proposed policy from 2014 Linkage to strategy Base salary Conservative approach relative No change The structure of lower base salaries to companies of similar and higher potential incentives has proved market capitalisation motivational and successful in achieving strong business performance Pension allowance 10% of base salary either into the No change Group Personal Pension Plan or as a cash allowance for those in excess of the lifetime allowance Annual bonus Maximum and target bonus opportunity Maximum and target bonus opportunity Delivery of revenue and profit growth are of150% and 100% of salary respectively reduced to 125% and 85% of salary regarded as the best drivers to increase Bonus split 50 50 cash and deferred respectively market share and continue the Groups sharesbased on normalised operating All bonus to be paid in cash outperformance of semiconductor profit NOP, total revenue and Deferred bonus share awards will cease marketgrowth  No change to performance metrics Individual performance measures are Compulsory deferral into shares which will continue to be NOP, focused on objectives that are specific forthreeyears total revenue and individual performance toeach executive director Bonus matching shares 0.3 to 2 for 1 match on any deferred bonus The final award under the DAB Plan will shares subject to three year EPS growth of bemade in respect of 2013 performance CPI 4% to CPI 12% p. a. respectively Sliding scale vesting LTIP Annual awards normally at 100% of salary Annual awards under the revised plan will From 2014, long-term incentives will have for senior executives with the potential increase to a maximum potential of 375% performance conditions that incorporate tovest at 200% of salary for upper decile of salary from 2014 onwards with a both relative TSR and EPS growth performance and with a maximum limit maximum limit in exceptional circumstances inexceptional circumstances of 400% of 600% of salary ofsalary Vesting based on: Vesting based on three year o three year relative TSR growth relative relative TSR versus tothe FTSE All World Technology Index FTSE All World Technology Index 25% of the award : and FTSE 350 50 50 o three year relative TSR growth relative T hreshold vesting tothe FTSE 350 25% of the award : and commencing at median ranking o three year EPS growth 50% of the award of TSR group 25% of award Targets to be determined ahead of the rising to 100% vesting firstannual awards in 2014 for an upper decile ranking Full vesting of the TSR components on a straightline basis forupperquintile performance Holding period beyond None 50% of the vested shares will be subject to These additional holding periods align the three years additional holding periods with 25% vesting interests of executives and shareholders after four years and the remaining 25% vesting more closely and require sustained longterm after five years.
During these new holding performance periods shares may not be sold even if the participant has left the Group Share 100% of salary over a five year period 200% of base salary to be achieved through Increased individual holding requirements ownership guidelines retention of at least 50% of all net vested align executive and investor interests awards 81 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Before pension, the current total aggregate We are aware that this is higher than the limit current incentive arrangements package assuming maximum performance can of 5% over ten years in respect of discretionary andtheir operation for 2012 deliver a total incentive opportunity of up to awards and 10% over ten years in respect of For 2012 there were four key incentive five times salary for superior performance.
allschemes adopted by many UK companies schemes in operation across the workforce Assuming an ontarget bonus and LTIP vesting andpreferred by many institutional investors.
These are the annual bonus under at 50% of maximum, the package delivers Thereasons for this higher limit, which was theDAB Plan and anannual conditional award around 2.5 times salary after three years.
approved by shareholders when the LTIP under the LTIP for executive directors and Asmentioned above, this longstanding wasintroduced, are at least as strong today.
senior managers and awards under the arrangement has been effective at aligning pay Theseare the broad based nature of our Employee Equity Plan and Annual Bonus Plan with performance.
However, the expiry ofthe schemes which cover all employees and for all other employees.
Option grants to LTIP in 2013 has given the Committee the theneed to be able to compete with US executive directors ceased in 2006 opportunity to revisit the Groups executive companies worldwide for the high calibre althoughthe facility to grant options exists reward objectives to ensure that they are the engineers and executives required to secure inexceptional circumstances and the move most appropriate ones for the next phase in the Groups future success.
The Committee awayfrom options to restricted shares for all the Groups development.
iskeenly aware of this issue, and will continue employees reduces potential dilution and has to keep well below the 10% upper limit.
The Committee believes that the revised arrangements provide a much simpler package shareholding guideline We significantly outperformed our similar to the approach adopted in a largely Share ownership is considered important in international peer group over the last three US dominated sector and one that rewards aligning the interests of the senior management years which resulted in full vesting of both the only sustained longer term performance.
The team with other ARM shareholders.
In LTIP and DAB Plan awards made in 2010, chart below highlights the proposed change.
addition to reducing the proportion of shares when the share price was 205 pence per released to participants under the new LTIP share.
To put the awards that are currently Potential maximum bonus % of salary after three years, it is proposed that the outstanding under the LTIP and DAB Plan into 600 shareholding guideline will increase from 100% context, the share price was 611 pence per 500 to 200% of base salary for executive directors share at the time awards were made in 2011 and Executive Committee members with and 568 pence per share for the 2012 awards.
400 effect from the first grants under the new LTIP.
The share price was 924.5 pence per share 300 For other participants in the new LTIP, the on7 February 2013, being theday before the 491.8 200 shareholding guideline will increase from 50% 2013 LTIP and DAB Plan awards were made.
Until these levels are Following the subsequent sustained increase achieved, no more than 50% of shares inshare price, the number of shares awarded Current Proposed received through the DAB Plan and LTIP under these plans in 2011, 2012 and 2013 are Base Cash bonus Potential DAB Potential DAB match LTIP afterthe automatic sale of shares to satisfy tax atmuch lower levels.
liabilities can be disposed of by participants.
Deferred Annual Bonus plan impact of proposed changes Atthe present share price, all of the executive DABplan for 2012 directors currently meet the 200% of base The impact of the proposed changes is to salary shareholding guideline.
As demonstrated in the table earlier in this rebalance the package towards longterm report, there is a high variable element to performance and materially reduce the total Collectively the Executive Committee, executive directors remuneration.
For 2012 quantum released under the package after including the executive directors, held target and maximum bonus of 100% and 150% three years.
In addition, the introduction of the 5.0million shares with a value of 47.3 million ofbase salary respectively after application of new holding periods and increased share at 25February 2013.
Thiscurrently equates a personal performance multiplier which flexes ownership guidelines will result in longer term toa multiple of 12 times base salaries.
the payment by 0.75 to 1.25 could beearned performance alignment.
Therefore, if share through the DAB Plan if all targets were met.
price performance is sustained during the Base salary increase for 2012 and 2013 holding period, then participants are For 2012, the average increase in base salaries The strong performance of the Group in 2012 rewarded.
Ifshare price performance is not for the executive directors was 4.0% and the resulted in partial achievement of both of the sustained during the holding period then average increase for the workforce as a whole equally weighted bonus targets, as set out below: participants are worse off than under the old was 4.7%.
For 2013 the average increases are Bonus % arrangements.
3.85% for the executive directors and 4.7% for achieved the workforce as a whole.
Within the overall of base share dilution 2012 Bonus targets Target Actual salary increase for2013, the range was 3.6% for the It is proposed that the Group will continue US rising to 8.9% in Asia reflecting local market Revenue US$917.0m US$913.1m 48.3% tomanage dilution within the context of conditions and salary inflation.
The higher Normalised maintaining award levels within a 10% limit operating profit 253.1m 257.7m 57.6% increase of 7.1% for Simon Segars reflects over five years excluding rolled over Artisan increased responsibilities in his new role as total 105.9% options, the limit that has applied since 2003.
Normalised operating profit for bonus purposes is calculated using the Group budget exchange rate of 1:US$1.60 for 2012.
82 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach Each of the executive directors achieved a Linkage of bonus targets to business Awards under the DAB Plan will be made for personal performance multiplier of at least 1.2 strategy the last time in respect of 2013, subject to for 2012 which means bonus received was in approval of the new LTIP at the 2013 AGM.
The personal performance multiplier depends the range 127% to 132% of salary half of which The Committee has decided to adopt the on the achievement of predetermined was compulsorily deferred into shares for same bonus target arrangement for 2013 as objectives which are reviewed and approved three years.
Actual bonuses are detailed in applied in 2012 so that 50% of bonus will be by the Committee each year.
These include thetable on page 90. dependent on achieving a US dollar revenue key strategic objectives related to each target and 50% on achieving a NOP target directors role and responsibilities including The revenue target is set in US dollars to calculated at the Group budget exchange rate compliance with the Management Charter reflect the main currency in which revenues of 1:US$1.60.
The Committee believes that which is designed to foster employee are earned.
these targets have been set at levels that are development, understanding of the overall challenging but achievable at high rates of The normalised operating profit NOP target vision and strategy of the Group and good performance.
range was from zero payout at 218.8 million governance.
There is compulsory deferral into up to 25% at 233.8 million and 50% at shares of 50% of the bonus earned and an Long term incentive plan 253.1million, all at the Group budget opportunity to earn an equity match of up to Annual grants to executive directors are exchange rate of 1:US$1.60.
2:1, subject to achievement of an EPS normally made at a level equivalent to base performance condition.
At the end of the Shares representing the deferred element of salary.
Conditional awards vest to the extent three year deferral period the shares and any bonus earned in 2009 and awarded in 2010 that the performance criteria are satisfied matching shares earned are satisfied through vested in February 2013, with the maximum overa three year performance period from the issue of new shares any treasury shares 2:1 ratio ofmatching shares being triggered.
1January of the year of award, with no available would be used first.
This ratio was achieved because EPS growth subsequent retesting permitted.
The was 170% which is greater than CPI plus 12% At EPS growth equal to the increase in the performance conditions are based on per annum on average for the three years Consumer Prices Index CPI plus 4% per theCompanys TSR when measured against making up the performance period.
annum, the deferred shares will be matched that of two comparator groups each testing on a 0.3:1 basis, rising to 2:1 when EPS growth half of the shares comprised in the award.
The targets set by the Committee for the is in excess of CPI plus 12% per annum.
These Thefirst indexcomprises UK companies DABPlan each year are intended to be targets are directly related to the Groups across all sectors FTSE 350 and the second stretching but motivational and average bonus financial results and encourage achievement  US companies paid to the executive directors over the past ofthe Groups shortterm financial goals, while within the hitech sector FTSE All World five years was 112% of salary with a range the deferral and matching elements encourage Technology Index.
from 70% payout for 2008 to 150% for 2011 a longer term view of the success of the For each comparator group, the number of asshown below: Group.
The deferred shares can be forfeited shares that may vest may be up to a maximum inthe event of gross misconduct and the of 200% of the relevant half of the shares matching shares are subject to forfeiture comprised in the conditional award if the forbad leavers.
Companys TSR ranks in the upper decile, 50% of the relevant half of the shares will vest in the event of median performance and between median and upper decile performance vesting will increase on a straightline basis.
Additional shares may vest to cover dividends paid by the Company during the performance period.
No shares will be received for belowmedian performance.
In addition, no shares will vest Average percentage bonus paid over the past five years to executive directors unless the Committee is satisfied that there 150% has been a sustained improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Group.
100% The vesting of the 2010 LTIP awards in February 2013 was at the maximum level as a 491.8 50% result of our significant outperformance compared to our international peer group 576.9 over the past three years.
0% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Awards under the existing LTIP are being Notes made for the last time in 2013, anticipating 2010 bonus was limited to 125% of base salary under the DAB Plan rules applicable at that time approval of the new LTIP at the 2013 AGM.
All bonuses are subject to a performance multiplier on an individual basis but remain subject to the overall limit of 150% 83 % of base salary ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Former share option schemes performance graphs tosixmonths following termination of employment relating to noncompetition, The remaining shares of the final option grant A performance graph showing the Companys nonsolicitation ofthe Groups customers, to executive directors made in 2006 vested TSR together with the TSRs for the FTSE nondealing with customers and non inaccordance with the rules of the scheme in AllWorld Technology Index and the FTSE 350 solicitation of the Groups suppliers and February2013.
The performance conditions from 31December 2007 is shown below.
In addition, each service contract relating to this option grant are set out in more TSR has been calculated in accordance with contains an express obligation of confidentiality detail in the table later in this report.
the Directors Remuneration Report in respect of the Groups trade secrets and Regulations 2002. pensions confidential information and provides for The TSR for the Companys shares was 558% theGroup to own any intellectual property The Group does not operate its own pension over this period compared with 8% for the rights created by thedirectors in the course scheme but makes payments into a group FTSE AllWorld Technology Index for the oftheir employment.
personal pension plan, which is a money same period.
For executive directors, the The dates of the service contracts of each normal rate of Group contribution is 10% of The Committee considers the FTSE AllWorld person who served as an executive director the executives basic salary plus additional Technology Index to be an appropriate choice during the financial year are as follows: amounts in accordance with the Groups salary as the Index contains companies from the US, Director Date sacrifice scheme.
Full details of Group Asia and Europe and therefore reflects the contributions are set out in the directors Warren East 29 January 2001 global environment in which the Group emoluments table later in this report.
In addition, the Index includes many Since2011, tothe extent that contributions Mike Inglis 17 July 2002 companies that are currently the Groups cannot be made in a tax efficient way at the Mike Muller 31 January 1996 customers, as well as companies which use 10% of basic salary level, the difference is paid Simon Segars 4 January 2005 ARM technology in their end products.
as an additional cash allowance and subject Tudor Brown retired 3 May 2012 3 April 1996 service contracts toappropriate tax and other deductions.
Executive directors have service contracts Where notice is served to terminate the Executive Directors remuneration 2012 % of salary thatmay be terminated by either party on appointment, whether by the Group or the 1,500 oneyears notice.
These agreements provide executive director, the Group in its absolute for each of the directors to provide services discretion is entitled to terminate the totheGroup on a fulltime basis and contain appointment by paying to the executive 1,000 restrictive covenants for periods of three director his salary in lieu of any required periodof notice.
491.8 500 576.9 Base Cash bonus DAB bonus Option gains DAB match LTIP ARM total shareholder return performance from 31 December 2007 to 31 December 2012 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 ARM FTSE All-World Technology FTSE 350 84 Dec 07 Jun 08 Dec 08 Jun 09 Dec 09 Jun 10 Dec 10 Jun 11 Dec 11 Jun 12 Dec 12 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach non-executive directors Directors shareholdings inthecompany During 2012, the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees each received a The directors beneficial interests in the total fee of 65,000 per annum and the other Companys ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, nonexecutive directors each received a total which exclude interests under its share option fee of 52,000 per annum.
The remuneration schemes, LongTerm Incentive Plan and of the nonexecutive directors was reviewed Deferred Annual Bonus Plan, are set out below.
followingthe appointment of the new 31 December 2012 Chairman.
In line with fee arrangements in At date of or date of retirement place in other companies of similar size and report if earlier 31 December 2011 Director Number Number Number complexity theexecutive directors have implemented new arrangements from Sir John Buchanan appointed 3 May 2012 1January 2013 as follows: Warren East 1,418,465 1,289,522 1,194,914 Tim Score 739,094 654,297 289,151 Mike Inglis 99,857 101,238 101,007 standard fee 55,000 per annum: and Mike Muller 1,338,367 1,343,625 1,158,163 additional fee for Committee Chairmen Simon Segars 478,568 356,956 265,846 andSenior Independent Director 15,000 Andy Green per annum.
Larry Hirst Kathleen ODonovan This is believed to more fairly reflect the Janice Roberts workload undertaken by Committee Philip Rowley 50,000 50,000 50,000 Chairmen and the Senior Independent Tudor Brown retired 3 May 2012 N A 895,814 542,617 Director.
The additional fee of $2,500 per Doug Dunn retired 3 May 2012 N A 48,000 48,000 meeting which is paid to nonexecutive Young Sohn retired 31 December 2012 N A 84,000 directors who are based in the US and travel to the UK for Board meetings will continue at In addition to the interests disclosed above, this level.
This is to reflect their additional time the executive directors have interests in commitment.
The term of appointment for dividend shares that could be awarded nonexecutive directors is three years, which underthe Long Term Incentive Plan and the can be rolled forward for a further period of Deferred Annual Bonus Plan, the amount three years and is subject to annual review.
ofwhich will depend on the extent to which Fees paid to nonexecutive directors are the performance criteria are satisfied and the reviewed annually with effect from 1January.
dividends declared during the performance period.
Changes in directors interests in the The Chairmans fee for 2012 and 2013 Companys shares that have taken place in isattherate of 390,000 per annum.
theperiod from 31 December 2012 to the date of approval of the Remuneration report Nonexecutive directors do not have service are shown above.
contracts and are not eligible to participate in bonus or share incentive arrangements.
Their Audited information service does not qualify for pension purposes The following information has been or other benefits and no element of their fees auditedbythe Companys auditors, is performancerelated.
 LLP, as required bythe Companies Act 2006.
For options granted in 2005 the performance conditions were satisfied to the extent that 89.44% of the options vested on 8 February 2008 and the balance vested on 6 February 2012.
For the final grant of options in 2006 the performance conditions were satisfied to the extent that 76.2% of the options vested on 8 February 2009 and the balance vested on 6 February 2013.
The expiry date was extended to the first day of the open period in accordance with the rules of the Scheme.
Details of options held by directors under the Groups Save As You Earn option schemes are set out below: As at As at 31 December Exercise Earliest 1 January 2012 Granted Exercised 2012 price date of Expiry Director Number Number Number Number exercise date Warren East 4,620 4,620 1.948 01 08 13 31 01 14 Tim Score 18,208 18,208 0.854 01 08 14 31 01 15 Mike Inglis 10,626 10,626 0.854 01 08 12 31 01 13 Options issued under this scheme are issued at a 20% discount to market value.
Details of options exercised by directors during the year are as follows: Market price Exercise on date of Gains on Number price exercise exercise Director of shares Warren east 62,559 1.055 5.77 294,966 tim score 50,047 1.055 5.77 235,972 Tudor Brown retired 3 May 2012 46,044 1.055 5.77 217,097 93,404 1.325 5.833 421,065 tudor Brown 139,448 638,162 Mike Inglis 40,038 1.055 5.77 188,779 10,626 0.854 7.725 73,011 Mike inglis 50,664 261,790 Mike Muller 42,040 1.055 5.77 198,219 simon segars 36,034 1.055 5.77 169,900 total 380,792 1,799,009 86 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach Details of options exercised by directors after the year end are as follows: Market price Exercise on date of Gains on Number price exercise exercise Director of shares Warren East 136,513 1.325 9.2943 1,087,911 Tim Score 114,959 1.325 9.2213 907,749 Mike Inglis 80,830 1.325 9.3014 644,736 Mike Muller 80,830 1.325 9.2211 638,241 Simon Segars 75,441 1.325 9.2168 595,362 total 488,573 3,873,999 Long term incentive plan A Long Term Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders at the 2003 AGM.
The performance conditions applicable to the 2010 conditional awards were satisfied to the extent of 200% plus dividend shares.
87 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Ltip vesting in 2012 As detailed in the 2011 annual report the performance conditions applicable to the conditional awards granted on 8 February 2009 were satisfied inrespect of the performance period ended 31 December 2011 to the extent of 200% plus dividend shares which vested on 8 February 2012, asfollows: Conditional Vested Dividend Total Market value award award shares award at vesting Director Number Number Number Number Warren East 416,040 832,080 27,348 859,428 4,868,660 Tim Score 360,902 721,804 23,724 745,528 4,223,416 Mike Inglis 250,627 501,254 16,475 517,729 2,932,935 Mike Muller 245,614 491,228 16,145 507,373 2,874,268 Simon Segars 250,627 501,254 16,475 517,729 2,932,935 Tudor Brown retired 3 May 2012 214,286 428,572 14,086 442,658 2,507,658 total 1,738,096 3,476,192 114,253 3,590,445 20,339,872 The amount vested above represents the maximum award under the LTIP.
This is based on the total shareholder return as calculated below: Comparator Group ARM TSR percentile rank Implied vesting FTSE 350 index 99.6% 200% FTSE All World Technology Index 99.5% 200% Overall 200% Ltip vesting in 2013 The performance conditions applicable to the conditional awards granted on 8 February 2010 were satisfied in respect of the performance period ended 31 December 2012 to the extent of 200% plus dividend shares which vested on 8 February 2013, as follows: Conditional Vested Dividend Total Market value award award shares award at vesting Director Number Number Number Number Warren East 209,756 419,512 8,911 428,423 3,960,771 Tim Score 180,487 360,974 7,667 368,641 3,408,086 Mike Inglis 126,829 253,658 5,388 259,046 2,394,880 Mike Muller 124,390 248,780 5,284 254,064 2,348,822 Simon Segars 125,853 251,706 5,346 257,052 2,376,446 total 767,315 1,534,630 32,596 1,567,226 14,489,005 The amount vesting above represents the maximum award under the LTIP.
This is based on the total shareholder return as calculated below: Comparator Group ARM TSR percentile rank Implied vesting FTSE 350 index 99.4% 200% FTSE All World Technology Index 100% 200% Overall 200% In accordance with the rules of the LTIP, on his retirement on 3 May 2012, Tudor Brown received the following shares under the Plan calculated ona pro rata basis and reflecting the extent to which the performance conditions were satisfied at that date: Conditional Vested Dividend Total Market value award award shares award at vesting Grant Number Number Number Number 8 February 2010 106,341 165,679 165,679 796,088 8 February 2011 36,007 27,649 27,649 132,853 The following conditional awards over ordinary shares were made under the LTIP on 8 February 2013: Warren East 54,083: Tim Score 44,889: Mike Muller 30,827 and Simon Segars 32,449.
The midmarket closing price of an ordinary share on 7 February 2013, being the business day prior tothe date of these conditional awards, was 924.5 pence.
88 Overview Our marketplace Strategy and Our partnership Our commitment Financials and risk Governance Financial statements performance approach Deferred Annual Bonus plan DAB plan As described above, there is a compulsory deferral of 50% of the annual bonus earned by executive directors in the year.
The emoluments detailed below include the full bonus earned for 2012, although only half has been settled in cash and the deferred elements will be settled in shares after three years.
The total number of deferred shares held under the DAB Plan by the directors following confirmation of 2012 bonus is: Shares Shares Shares deferred as deferred as deferred as part of the part of the part of the Total 2010 bonus 2011 bonus 2012 bonus awards Director Number Number Number Number Warren East 43,985 62,720 33,677 140,382 Tim Score 37,847 50,572 28,637 117,056 Mike Inglis 26,595 35,651 19,244 81,490 Mike Muller 26,084 34,991 18,900 79,975 Simon Segars 26,391 35,387 20,045 81,823 total 160,902 219,321 120,503 500,726 The performance conditions applicable to the matching awards relating to the deferred elements of the annual bonus for 2009 were satisfied to the extent of 200% matching shares plus dividend shares which vested on 8 February 2013, as follows: Shares deferred as part of the Matching Dividend Total 2009 bonus shares shares award Director Number Number Number Number Warren East 85,024 170,048 1,804 256,876 Tim Score 74,370 148,740 1,578 224,688 Mike Inglis 51,219 102,438 1,087 154,744 Mike Muller 50,195 100,390 1,065 151,650 Simon Segars 51,006 102,012 1,082 154,100 total 311,814 623,628 6,616 942,058 The market value of an ARM share on the date of vesting was 924.5 pence.
The matching shares vesting above represent the maximum award under the DAB Plan.
This award is based on an EPS growth rate before inflation of 170% per annum compared with a target growth rate of CPI plus 12% per annum on average for the three years making up the performance period.
In accordance with the rules of the DAB Plan, on his retirement on 3 May 2012, Tudor Brown received the following shares calculated on a pro rata basis and reflecting the extent to which the performance conditions were satisfied at that date: Shares deferred as part of the Matching Dividend Total bonus shares shares award Grant Number Number Number Number 2010 43,427 67,659 111,086 2011 22,299 19,875 42,174 2012 29,049 6,527 35,576 Except as described above, there have been no changes in directors interests under the Groups equity schemes since the end of the 2012 financial year up to the date of approval of the Remuneration report.
The Companys register of directors interests contains full details of directors shareholdings and options to subscribe and conditional awards under the LTIP.
share prices The market value of the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2012 was 768 pence.
The closing midprice ranged from 469 pence to 782.5pence during the year.
In addition, Tim Score has the use of a company car with fuel benefit and Warren East, Tudor Brown, Mike Inglis and Mike Muller received a car and petrol allowance.
Simon Segars receives living, transportation and other allowances as part of his placement in the US.
Warren East, Mike Inglis and Tudor Brown received an additional cash allowance in place of Group pension contributions that can no longer be contributed in a tax-efficient way.
The bonus payments above represent the full bonus earned during 2012.
According to the terms of the DAB Plan, 50% of this bonus is not paid in cash, but is deferred and becomes payable in shares after three years.
Details of the awards made in February 2012 in respect of these deferrals are detailed above.
Warren East is the highest paid employee in the Company.
The following information is unaudited.
total directors pay The Group has defined total directors pay as the total of basic salary, benefits, bonus and pension contributions during 2012, plus the gains made on share options exercised during the year and the value of shares vesting under the LTIP and the DAB Plan in respect of that year.
The LTIP and DAB shares that vested in February 2013 have been included since 31 December 2012 is the end of the three year performance period for these awards.
The amount previously reported in the 2009 Annual Report as part of 2009 bonus has been deducted, as this is included within the value of the DAB shares awarded.
The Board believes that experience of the operations of other companies and their boards and committees is valuable to the development of the executive directors.
Details of executive directors roles within other companies and their remuneration are as follows: Warren East is a nonexecutive director of fide La Rue plc and he received remuneration totalling 49,000 up to 31 December 2012 2011: 47,000.
Mike Inglis is a nonexecutive director of Pace plc and he received remuneration totalling 42,000 up to 31 December 2012 2011: 42,000.
TimScore is a nonexecutive director of National Express Group plc and he received remuneration totalling 60,500 upto31 December 2012 2011: 60,500.
Mike Muller became a nonexecutive director of Intelligent Energy Limited in July 2012 and he received fees totalling 16,666 up to 31 December 2012.
Tudor Brown was a nonexecutive director of ANT plc and he received remuneration totalling 4,000 up to his retirement on3May 2012 2011: 12,000 for the full year.
All of the executive directors are accruing benefits under a money purchase pension scheme as a result of their services to the Group.
Contributions to the scheme or the alternative cash allowance as described in the Pensions section above were fully paid during the year.
By order of the Board Philip Rowley Remuneration Committee Chairman 91
