Statement on Corporate Governance The board The Company is led by a strong and experienced board of directors the board which brings a depth and diversity of expertise to the leadership of the Company.
The board has an appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge of the Group to enable it to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
During the year, the board comprised four executive directors and four non-executive directors.
The nonexecutive directors comprised the non-executive Chairman, two independent non-executive directors and one non-independent non-executive director.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 38 and 39.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a clear division of responsibilities between those roles.
The Chairman leads the board and ensures the effective engagement and contribution of all non-executive and executive directors.
The Chairman also ensures that board meetings are underpinned by a culture of openness and challenge with sufficient time made available to debate issues arising.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in accordance with the authority delegated from the board.
The senior independent non-executive director, J. Warburton, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved via the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive, or the other Executive Directors, or where communication through such channels would be inappropriate.
The board considers that J. Warburton and M. A. Griffiths are independent for the purposes of provision B.
1.1 of the U. K. Corporate Governance Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 the Code, and that the relationships and circumstances set out in that provision which may appear relevant to the determination of independence do not apply.
The board considers that, on appointment, the Chairman was independent for the purposes of provision A.
J. Warburton was the senior independent director during the year to 28 January 2012.
R. G. Hanna holds directorships with a number of companies.
In addition to his role as Chairman of the Company, he is chairman of Bowleven plc and Troy Income & Growth Trust plc and a director of Peatallan plc.
The board does not consider that R. G. Hannas other commitments have any impact on his ability to discharge his duties as Chairman of the Company effectively.
The Articles require directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first annual general meeting following appointment and to retire no later than the third annual general meeting after the annual general meeting at which they were last elected or re-elected.
However, in order to comply with the Code, all directors will submit themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Details of directors remuneration and interests in shares of the Company are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 55.
Role of the board The board is responsible for the long term success of the Group, determines the strategic direction of the Group and reviews operating, financial and risk performance.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the board, including approval of the Groups annual business plan, the Groups strategy, acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure projects above certain thresholds, all guarantees, treasury policies, the financial statements, the Companys dividend policy, transactions involving the issue or purchase of Company shares, borrowing powers, appointments to the board, alterations to the memorandum and articles of association, legal actions brought by or against the Group above certain thresholds, and the scope of delegations to board committees, subsidiary boards and the management committee.
Responsibility for the development of policy and strategy and operational management is delegated to the executive directors and a management committee, which includes the executive directors and six senior managers as at the date of this report.
Board performance evaluation During the year, the Chairman carried out a performance evaluation of the board, the board committees and each of the directors.
As in previous years, this was an internal exercise led by the Chairman, who conducted a detailed and comprehensive evaluation process by a combination of written survey questionnaires followed by a series of one to one discussions.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, carried out a performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The outcome of these evaluations showed that directors were positive about the performance and process of the board and the board committees.
The board considered that an internal exercise remained appropriate for the current year, however it agreed to consider annually whether an externally facilitated evaluation might be appropriate.
The Chairman is pleased to confirm that, following formal performance evaluation of the directors, all of the directors performances continue to be effective and all of the directors continue to demonstrate commitment to the role of director, including commitment of time for board meetings and committee meetings and any other relevant duties.
Independent professional advice Directors can obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense in performance of their duties as directors.
None of the directors obtained independent professional advice in the period under review.
All directors have access to the advice and the services of the Company Secretary.
The non-executive directors have access to senior management of the business.
44 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012
