Statement on Corporate Governance Continued Share capital structure The share capital structure of the Company is set out in the Directors Report.
U. K. Corporate Governance Code compliance The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Code.
A copy of the Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website, www.
Each of the provisions of the Code has been reviewed and, where necessary, steps have been taken to ensure that the Company is in compliance with all of those provisions as at the date of this report.
The directors consider that the Company has complied throughout the year ended 28 January 2012 with the provisions of the Code, except in relation to provisions B.
During the year, the board comprised four executive directors, the non-executive Chairman, and two independent non-executive directors.
In addition, W. R. G. Barr was a non-executive director during the year although he is not considered by the board to be independent.
Therefore, during the year to 28 January 2012 the composition of the board did not comply with provision B.
The composition of the Companys Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee did not comply with provisions C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 of the Code during the year to 28 January 2012 due to the fact that these Committees did not comprise at least three independent non-executive directors.
Following a performance evaluation during the year, the directors believe that the board, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee are currently able to discharge their respective duties and obligations successfully.
The board is mindful of its obligations under the Code and regularly reviews the composition of the board and its committees to ensure that each is able to effectively and successfully discharge its duties.
Provision D. 1.5 of the Code recommends that executive directors contracts contain a maximum notice period of one year.
As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, in the event of a takeover of or by the Company or a Company reconstruction the notice period of the executive directors reverts to two years in certain circumstances.
The Remuneration Committee considers that, given the shareholding structure of the Company, this condition is appropriate in order to attract and retain high calibre executive directors.
A copy of the financial statements has been placed on the Companys website, www.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of the directors.
Legislation in the U. K. governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
A. Barr Company Secretary 26 March 2012 48 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012
