Appendix Frequently asked questions in relation to the Share Subdivision How many ordinary shares will I hold after the Share Subdivision?
Following the passing of the Share Subdivision resolution resolution 15 at the AGM and HMRC Approval being obtained see below for why this approval is needed, you will hold three New Ordinary Shares for every Existing Ordinary Share you currently hold.
Therefore you will hold triple the number of New Ordinary Shares as you do Existing Ordinary Shares but the nominal value of your total shareholding and your percentage interest in the Companys share capital will not change.
What effect does the Share Subdivision have on the value of my investment in the Company?
It is expected that the market price of each New Ordinary Share will be approximately one-third of the market price of an Existing Ordinary Share immediately before the Share Subdivision.
Subject to normal market movements and the costs incurred by the Company in relation to the Share Subdivision which the Board believes are insignificant, the total value of your shareholding in the Company immediately following the Share Subdivision should remain the same.
However, you should remember that variations in the share price cannot be predicted and are outwith the control of the Company.
Why is the approval of HM revenue & Customs needed for the Share Subdivision?
The Company operates various employee share schemes and share saving schemes together, the Share Schemes.
Currently, awards are made under the Share Schemes in Existing Ordinary Shares.
Following the Share Subdivision, current and future awards under the Share Schemes will be in New Ordinary Shares rather than Existing Ordinary Shares.
Although no amendments are required to any of the Share Schemes, the Company will be required to modify the exercise price of any options granted, and the number of ordinary shares to be awarded, under the Share Schemes.
Certain administrative changes will also be required in respect of each of the Share Schemes to allow for New Ordinary Shares to be issued or transferred as appropriate instead of Existing Ordinary Shares.
As some of the Share Schemes are schemes which have been approved by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC, the Company has sought approval from HMRC for the Share Subdivision.
As at 9 April 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document, HMRC had not approved the consequential adjustments to the Share Schemes required as a result of the Share Subdivision the HMRC Approval.
Without the HMRC Approval, the approved status of the relevant Share Schemes may be prejudiced by the Share Subdivision.
As a result, the Share Subdivision is conditional upon receiving HMRC Approval.
Will the Share Subdivision affect my rights as a shareholder of the Company?
As a shareholder of the Company, your rights are set out in the articles of association of the Company and as no changes are being made to the articles of association, your rights will not change as a result of the Share Subdivision.
What other steps does the Company have to take to allow the New Ordinary Shares to be traded?
The Company is required to inform the UKLA and London Stock Exchange plc of the Share Subdivision.
Subject to the passing of the resolution at the AGM and obtaining HMRC Approval, the UKLA has confirmed that the Official List of the UKLA will be amended to reflect the subdivision of the Existing Ordinary Shares.
The Company will announce a detailed timetable for the Share Subdivision once HMRC Approval has been obtained.
The New Ordinary Shares will have the ISIN code GB00B6XZKY75.
How will I receive my New Ordinary Shares?
If you hold your Existing Ordinary Shares in certificated form i. e. you have a share certificate s in respect of your Existing Ordinary Shares, you will receive a new share certificate which records the number of New Ordinary Shares you hold.
On receipt of your new share certificate, you should destroy your old share certificate s. If you hold your Existing Ordinary Shares in uncertificated form i. e. through CREST, your CREST account will be credited with the New Ordinary Shares on the day the Official List of the UKLA is amended.
If any shareholder has any further questions in relation to the Share Subdivision, you should contact the Company Secretarial Department using the following email address: @agbarr.
Attending the annual general meeting the AGM in person If you wish to attend the AGM in person, you should arrive at the venue for the AGM in good time to allow your attendance to be registered.
It is advisable to have some form of identification with you as you may be asked to provide evidence of your identity to the Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited the Registrar, prior to being admitted to the AGM.
Appointment of proxies Members are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at the AGM.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the AGM to represent a member.
To be validly appointed, a proxy must be appointed using the procedures set out in these notes and in the notes to the accompanying proxy form.
If a member wishes a proxy to speak on their behalf at the AGM, the member will need to appoint their own choice of proxy not the Chairman of the AGM and give their instructions directly to them.
Such an appointment can be made using the proxy form accompanying this notice of AGM or through CREST.
110 A. G. BArr p. l. c. Annual report and Accounts 2012 Members can only appoint more than one proxy where each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
Members cannot appoint more than one proxy to exercise the rights attached to the same share s. If a member wishes to appoint more than one proxy, they should contact the Registrar at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6ZR.
A member may instruct their proxy to abstain from voting on a particular resolution to be considered at the AGM by marking the Withheld option in relation to that particular resolution when appointing their proxy.
It should be noted that an abstention is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes For or Against the resolution.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from attending the AGM and voting in person if he or she wishes.
A person who is not a member of the Company but who has been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights does not have a right to appoint any proxies under the procedures set out in these notes and should read note 8 below.
Appointment of a proxy using a proxy form A proxy form for use in connection with the AGM is enclosed.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy, together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a certified copy thereof, must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand by the Registrar at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6ZR at least 48 hours before the time of the AGM or any adjournment of that meeting.
If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you should have one, or you require additional proxy forms, please contact the Registrar at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6ZR.
Appointment of a proxy through CrEST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual and by logging on to the following website: www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Registrar ID RA19 no later than 48 hours before the time of the AGM or any adjournment of that meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Registrar is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Appointment of a proxy by joint holders In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint one or more proxies, only the purported appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Companys register of members in respect of the joint holding the first named being the most senior.
Corporate representatives Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives.
Members can only appoint more than one corporate representative where each corporate representative is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
Members cannot appoint more than one corporate representative to exercise the rights attached to the same share s. A. G. BArr p. l. c. Annual report and Accounts 2012 111 Appendix Continued 7.
Entitlement to attend and vote To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose of determining the votes they may cast, members must be registered in the Companys register of members at 6.00 p. m. on 19 May 2012 or, if the AGM is adjourned, at 6.00 p. m. on the day two days prior to the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Companys register of members after the relevant deadline will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the AGM.
Nominated persons Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the member by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Website giving information regarding the AGM Information regarding the AGM, including information required by section 311A of the 2006 Act, and a copy of this notice of AGM is available from www.
Audit concerns Members should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under section 527 of the 2006 Act, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or b any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the 2006 Act.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the 2006 Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the 2006 Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditors not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the 2006 Act to publish on a website.
Voting rights As at 25 April 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consisted of 38,922,926 ordinary shares of 12.5 pence each, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 25 April 2012 were 38,922,926 votes.
Notification of shareholdings Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights of the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman of the AGM as his her proxy will need to ensure that both he she, and his her proxy, comply with their respective disclosure obligations under the UK Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules.
Further questions and communication Under section 319A of the 2006 Act, the Company must cause to be answered any question relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM put by a member attending the meeting unless answering the question would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, or the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Members who have any general queries about the AGM should contact the Company Secretarial Department by email on @agbarr.
Members may not use any electronic address provided in this document or in any related documents including the accompanying document and proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
Documents available for inspection The following documents will be available for inspection on the date of the AGM at the offices of KPMG LLP, 191 West George Street, Glasgow G2 2LJ from 9.15 a. m. until the conclusion of the AGM: 14.1 copies of the service contracts of the Companys executive directors: 14.2 copies of the letters of appointment of the Companys non-executive directors: and 14.3 copies of the Companys All Employee Share Ownership Plan rules.
112 A. G. BArr p. l. c. Annual report and Accounts 2012 A. G. BArr p. l. c. Westfield House 4 Mollins Road Cumbernauld G68 9HD 01236 852 400 www.
co. uk registered Office Westfield House 4 Mollins Road Cumbernauld G68 9HD Secretary Julie A. Barr, M. A. Hons.
Auditors KPMG Audit Plc 191 West George Street Glasgow G2 2LJ registrars Equiniti Ltd Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA registered Number SC005653 Designed and produced by Tel 44 0 131 220 7990 www.
