Statement on Corporate Governance Continued Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises three non-executive directors: W. R. G. Barr, J. Warburton and M. A. Griffiths.
The Audit Committee is chaired by M. A. Griffiths.
The board is satisfied that M. A. Griffiths, who is a chartered accountant and is currently Finance Director of Stagecoach Group plc, has recent and relevant financial experience, as required by provision C. 3.1 of the Code.
The Audit Committee meets with executive directors and management, as well as privately with the external and internal auditors.
In the current year the Audit Committee has: monitored the financial reporting process: monitored the statutory audit of the Groups accounts: reviewed and advised the board on the integrity of the Groups interim and annual financial statements and announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: reviewed the control of the Groups financial and business risks: discussed and agreed the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the external auditors and internal auditors: reviewed the results of this audit work and the response of management to matters raised: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control including financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls and the appropriateness of the Groups whistle-blowing procedures: monitored and reviewed the performance of the internal auditors and the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit activities: made recommendations to the board on the reappointment and remuneration of the external auditors and monitored the performance of the auditors: made a recommendation to the board on the appointment of the internal auditors: and reviewed the non-audit services provided to the Group by the external auditors and monitored and assessed the independence of both the external and internal auditors.
The Audit Committee ensures that safeguards are in place to prevent the compromise of the auditors independence and objectivity.
The external auditors report regularly to the Audit Committee on the actions that they have taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and current best practice in order to maintain their independence.
The Audit Committee reviews the external auditors performance, independence and objectivity annually.
The Group has a policy in place which ensures that the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors does not impair the auditors independence or objectivity.
Where fees for any non-audit project are expected to exceed 50,000, the prior approval of the chairman of the Audit Committee and the Group Finance Director is required.
Where fees for non-audit projects are in aggregate expected to exceed 150,000, the prior approval of the Audit Committee is required.
The Audit Committee has considered the nature and level of non-audit services provided by the Groups external auditors during the year and related fees, and is satisfied that the objectivity and independence of the external auditors were not affected by the non-audit work undertaken.
The external auditors report their audit results to the Audit Committee, including a summary of any significant accounting and auditing issues, internal control findings and a summary of any audit differences identified.
The Audit Committee would consider disagreements in accounting treatment between management and the external auditors, should any arise.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in note 2 to the financial statements.
At the beginning of each year, an internal control plan is developed by the internal auditors following meetings with directors and senior managers within the business and with reference to the significant risks contained within the Companys risk register and identified controls.
The Audit Committee receives updates on progress delivered against the internal control plan throughout the year.
In addition to the standing members of the Audit Committee and representatives from the external and internal auditors, A.
B. C. Short, the Finance Director, routinely attends.
Nomination Committee During the year, the Nomination Committee comprised R. G. Hanna, W. R. G. Barr, J. Warburton and M. A. Griffiths.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by R. G. Hanna.
The Nomination Committee leads the process for making appointments to the board, ensures that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board, reviews the composition of the board through a full evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience of directors, and ensures plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the board.
46 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012
