Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts Governance Risk & Compliance Committee Report Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board should maintain a sound system of risk management and internal control systems Main Principle C. 2.
As part of its processes in connection with the move of Playtech from AIM to a premium listing on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, and ensuring compliance with the principles of the Code, the Board conducted a review of its processes for identifying and managing the significant risks impacting on the business of the Group.
In carrying out this review, the Board concluded that the remit of the previous Risk Committee of the Board should be expanded to encompass a review of the risks which could impact on the Groups businesses arising from changes in the regulation of the market for online gambling in which its licensees operate.
In carrying out its review, the Board were assisted by DLA Piper LLP who prepared a detailed review of the legal and regulatory environment as it applies to the supply of remote gambling services and the associated supply of software and services to remote gambling operators, with a particular focus on those jurisdictions from which the Group, via its licensees, derives or is expected to derive over 3% of its revenues.
The revised Risk & Compliance Committee is chaired by Alan Jackson.
The other members of the Risk & Compliance Committee are Andrew Thomas and Roger Withers, both non-executive directors, David McLeish, General Counsel and the Head of Regulatory Affairs and Compliance.
The Company Secretary, Paul Wright is also the secretary to the committee.
In addition, the Internal Auditor and other executives including the CFO, CEO or COO may be invited to attend meetings to present matters or for the committee to have the benefit of their experience.
The revised Risk & Compliance Committee met twice during the year, the first meeting which was in June following the receipt of the report from DLA Piper LLP and the issue of the Companys prospectus and the second in August at the time of the interim announcement to review and approve the statement of risks set out in the interim report and to review progress on agreed actions arising from the prior meeting.
The committee has been kept informed of any changes to the regulatory position in any significant jurisdiction where the Group, through its licensees, may be exposed and updated on progress in relation to agreed action items on a regular basis, and the item is a standing agenda item for consideration at each Board meeting.
The primary responsibilities delegated to, and discharged by, the committee include: t Review managements identification, and mitigation of key risks to the achievement of the Companys objectives: t Review of the most significant risks to the achievement of strategic objectives: t Review of the processes for management and mitigation of most significant risks: t Monitoring incidents and remedial activity: t Agreeing and monitoring the risk assessment programme including, in particular, the assessment of licensees suitability: t To agree on behalf of the Board and continually review a risk management strategy and relevant policies for the Company: and t To satisfy itself and report to the Board that the structures, processes and responsibilities for identifying and managing risks are adequate.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Risk & Compliance Committee is available on the investors page of the Companys website at www.
Principal Risks A table setting out the principal significant risks identified by the Risk & Compliance Committee and the mitigating actions that have been undertaken by the Board in relation to these are set out on pages 48 and 49 of this document.
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47
