Governance Audit Committee Report The Board is required by the Code to establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how it should apply required financial reporting standards and internal control principles and also for maintaining appropriate relationships with the Companys external auditors, BDO LLP.
The Audit committee is chaired by Andrew Thomas, who as a qualified Chartered Accountant and member of the Institute of Taxation has recent relevant financial experience, and he was appointed to chair the committee on his appointment to the Board in June 2012.
The other members of the Audit Committee are Alan Jackson and Roger Withers, both non-executive directors.
The Code recommends that a minimum of three independent non-executive directors should serve on the Audit Committee.
From 1 January 2012 to 19 June 2012, the Company was not compliant with this recommendation because there were only two non-executive directors serving on the Board, however since the appointment of Andrew Thomas the Company believes it is compliant with this recommendation.
The Audit Committee met twice during the year, the first meeting which was prior to the appointment of Andrew Thomas, was chaired by Alan Jackson.
The CFO and Group Financial Controller were both invited to attend the meetings of the committee as was the external auditor, BDO LLP.
On both occasions, the members of the committee were able to meet the auditors without any executive directors being present.
The primary responsibilities delegated to, and discharged by, the committee included: t Monitoring and challenging the effectiveness of internal control and associated functions: t Approving and amending Group accounting policies: t Reviewing and ensuring the integrity of interim and annual financial statements in particular the actions and judgments of management in relation thereto before submission to the Board: t Monitor the implementation of the Companys Code of Business Ethics Code and compliance with their provisions: t Review the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, anonymously or in confidence and without fear of retaliation, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters arising under the Code: t Review promptly all reports on the Company from the internal auditors and reviewing and assess the annual internal audit plan: t Monitoring and approving the scope and costs of audit: and t Ensuring audit independence and pre-approving any significant non-audit services to be provided by the auditor in accordance with the appropriate committee policy to limit the value of any non-audit services provided by the auditors to 100% of the audit fees in the absence of any exceptional circumstances.
A summary of non-audit fees incurred during 2012, including due diligence, tax advisory and tax compliance work, is included in Note 6 to the Financial Statements on page 72.
Internal Control The Company has established a co-sourced internal audit function responsible for reviewing, reporting and monitoring improvements in internal control performance across its operations, involving  LLP PwC and the Groups Chief Security Officer, Jochanan Sommerfeld.
During the year PwC reviewed and updated the existing Group risk register to produce an updated risk register and fully mapped risk wheel.
Further work being undertaken focuses on key risk processes and is intended to provide an on-going independent assurance that these key processes are effective.
The Board confirms that an internal audit programme has been agreed by the Audit Committee and any necessary action will be taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from the review.
This system of internal controls and audit is designed to ensure local legal and regulatory compliance and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group has a widely publicised Code of Conduct, approved by the Risk & Compliance Committee, a specific delegated authorities framework, and a dedicated compliance function, managed by an experienced Head of Regulatory Affairs and Compliance, to ensure that the Company meets with all applicable regulatory requirements wherever it operates.
Performance across the Group is also closely scrutinised against budget and forecasts.
These initiatives help establish and promote an improved control environment and working practices.
The Board undertakes a formal assessment of the auditors independence each year, which includes: t A review of non-audit related services provided by the Company and related fees: t Discussion with the auditor of a written report detailing all relationships with the Company and any other parties which could affect independence or the perception of independence: t A review of the auditors own procedures for ensuring independence of the audit firm and partners and staff involved in the audit, including the rotation of the audit partner: t Obtaining written confirmation from the auditors that they are independent: and t A review of fees paid to the auditors in respect of audit and non-audit services.
The audit engagement partner, having acted in this role for five years, would cease to act in this capacity in accordance with Auditing Practices Board APB Ethical Standards.
Due to the recent changes made to the Group, principally the move to a premium listing, the significant acquisitions and restructuring activity that has taken place during the current and previous financial year the Groups Audit Committee has determined, with the agreement of BDO LLP, that it is necessary for the current audit engagement partner to continue in this role until the AGM in 2013 in order to safeguard audit quality, as permitted by the APB Ethical Standard 3 Revised.
This will allow him to sign the report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012.
46 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
