Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts Governance Corporate Governance Dear Shareholder I am pleased on behalf of the Board to present the Companys Corporate Governance Report to shareholders.
Introduction The purpose of corporate governance is to ensure that companies protect the sustainability of their businesses and the communities in which they operate, while maximising shareholder value and treating all shareholders fairly.
The Board recognises that high standards of corporate governance have become a necessary condition for sustainable success in business.
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance which it considers to be central to the effective stewardship of the business and to maintaining the confidence of stakeholders.
While the Companys shares were traded on AIM, the Board was not required to follow the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code although it did take account of a number of its principles to the extent it was deemed appropriate for a young, entrepreneurial company operating in a rapidly changing environment.
However, with a view to the Companys development and following its graduation from AIM to the premium segment of the official list of the UKLA in July 2012 Admission, Playtech is required to follow the provisions of the Code, and the Board has sought to move towards full compliance with it.
The directors have considered the contents and requirements of the Code as it applies to the Company reporting on its financial year ended 31 December 2012 and believe that, since Admission, the Company has been fully compliant with the Code for the remainder of the financial year.
However, the Company recognises that there were some areas of non-compliance which occurred during the financial year prior to Admission i. e. while the Company was on AIM as follows: t As disclosed on page 42, until 2 May 2012, the Chairman, Roger Withers held options over a total of 300,000 ordinary shares of the Company, some of which were granted to him shortly after the Companys admission to AIM in 2006 and so he could not be considered to be fully independent on appointment provision A.
These option arrangements were terminated prior to Admission and Mr Withers is now considered to be fully independent.
t Until the appointment of Andrew Thomas as a non-executive director on 19 June 2012, the Board, the audit committee and the remuneration committee did not consist of at least two independent non-executive directors excluding the Chairman provisions B.
1.2, C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 of the Code, and the nomination committee was not made up of a majority of independent non-executive directors excluding the Chairman provision B.
However, since Mr Thomas appointment, Playtech has complied with those provisions of the Code for the remainder of the financial year.
t As disclosed on page 39, certain historic option awards made to executive directors all of which were made while the Company was on AIM do not contain any performance-related vesting conditions.
The current policy of the remuneration committee as stated in its report on page 39 is that vesting of all awards to directors and senior management should be dependent on the achievement of challenging performance criteria reflecting Playtechs objectives, including non-financial performance metrics where appropriate to align with the interests of shareholders generally.
t For the financial year, the Company has been regarded as a smaller company for the purposes of the Code.
Prior to the end of the financial year, the Company graduated to the FTSE 250 and, therefore, will not be treated as a smaller company for its financial year ending 31 December 2013.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good governance and the statement set out below describes how the Group applies the principles identified in the Code.
The Board Constitution and Procedures Composition The composition of the current Board of Directors and biographical information concerning them is given on pages 28 to 29.
As at 31 December 2012, the Board comprised the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, together with two independent non-executive directors.
The list of directors holding office during the year to 31 December 2012 and the committees on which they served are set out in the table below.
Remuneration Risk & Compliance Nominations Position Independent Committee Audit Committee Committee Committee Executive directors Mor Weizer CEO David Mathewson CFO Non-executive directors Roger Withers Chairman Chairman Alan Jackson Senior Non-executive Director Chairman Chairman Andrew Thomas Non-executive Chairman With effect from 3 May 2012.
All of the directors served throughout the financial year, with the exception of David Mathewson who resigned on 31 December 2012 and was formerly the Chief Finance Officer and Andrew Thomas who was appointed on 19 June 2012.
Ron Hoffman was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2013 on the retirement of David Mathewson.
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33 Governance Corporate Governance continued The non-executive directors are all considered by the Board to be independent of management and free of any relationship, which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment.
The Company Secretary & Legal Counsel acts as secretary to the Board and its committees and his appointment and removal is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Company Secretary is a member of Groups senior management team and all the directors have access to his advice and services.
Board Operation The roles of the Chairman Roger Withers and the Chief Executive Officer Mor Weizer are separated, clearly defined and their respective responsibilities are summarised below.
Chairman t Overall effectiveness of the running of the Board: t Ensuring the Board as a whole plays a full part in the development and determination of the Groups strategic objectives: t Keeping the other directors informed of shareholders attitudes towards the Company: t Safeguarding the good reputation of the Company and representing it both externally and internally: t Acting as the guardian of the Boards decision-making processes: and t Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance throughout the Company and particularly at Board level.
Chief Executive Officer t Executive leadership of the Companys business on a day-to-day basis: t Developing the overall commercial objectives of the Group and proposing and developing the strategy of the Group in conjunction with the Board as a whole: t Responsibility, together with his senior management team, for the execution of the Groups strategy and implementation of Board decisions: t Recommendations on senior appointments and development of the management team: and t Ensuring that the affairs of the Group are conducted with the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance.
How the Board Functions In accordance with the Code, the Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership for the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Companys strategic aims, and ensures that the necessary resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
The Board meets regularly and frequently, with 10 meetings scheduled and held in 2012.
It was also necessary for the Board to hold an unscheduled Board meeting in the year in connection with the re-domicile of the Company to the Isle of Man and the issue of a prospectus in connection with Admission.
During the year, the Chairman met the other non-executives in the absence of the executive directors to re-confirm and take account of their views.
All the non-executive directors have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to the Company.
Board meetings are held at the registered office of the Company on the Isle of Man, though occasional meetings are held at the Groups operations or at other locations.
Directors are provided with comprehensive background information for each meeting and all directors were available to participate fully and on an informed basis in the Board decisions.
In addition, certain members of the senior management team including the COO, the Group General Counsel and the Head of Investor Relations are invited to attend the whole or parts of the meetings to deliver their reports on the business.
Any specific actions arising during meetings are agreed by the Board and a comprehensive follow-up procedure ensures their completion.
Details of the attendance of the directors at meetings of the Board and its committees are set out in the table below.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Risk Number of Meetings 112622 Roger Withers 112521 Alan Jackson 10 2 6 2 2 Mor Weizer 11 Andrew Thomas 6 1 4 2 David Mathewson 9 Responsibility and Delegation The Chairman is primarily responsible for the efficient functioning of the Board.
He ensures that all directors receive sufficient relevant information on financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings.
The Chief Executive Officers responsibilities focus on coordinating the Groups business and implementing Group strategy.
Regular interaction between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer between meetings ensures the Board remains fully informed of developments in the business at all times.
34 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts There remains in place a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for Board consideration and approval, which includes the matters set out below: t Approval of the Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy: t Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets and any changes to them: t Major investments or capital projects: t The extension of the Groups activities into any new business or geographic areas, or to cease any material operations: t Changes in the Companys capital structure or management and control structure: t Approval of the annual report and accounts, preliminary and half-yearly financial statements, interim management statements and announcements regarding dividends: t Approval of treasury policies, including foreign currency exposures and use of financial derivatives: t Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management: t The entering into of agreements that are not in the ordinary course of business or material strategically or by reason of their size: t Changes to the size, composition or structure of the Board and its committees: and t Corporate governance matters.
In addition, the Board has adopted a formal delegation of authorities memorandum which sets out levels of authority for employees in the business.
The Board has delegated certain of its responsibilities to committees of the Board.
These committees currently are the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Risk & Compliance Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The composition of these committees is set out in the table on page 33 and each committee reports separately on its work in the following pages.
The minutes of each committee are circulated to and reviewed by the Board.
The Company Secretary is secretary to each of the committees.
The Terms of Reference for each of the committees are available to view on the Companys website www.
Board Tenure In accordance with the articles of association, every new director appointed in the year is required to stand for re-election by shareholders at the AGM next following their appointment.
Accordingly, Andrew Thomas and Ron Hoffman will stand for re-election at this years AGM.
For those not subject to this obligation, the Board has decided to comply with the Code requirements that directors of companies in the FTSE350 Index submit themselves for re-election annually.
Accordingly, all the directors are seeking their re-appointment at the 2013 AGM.
The Board has collectively agreed that the directors proposed for re-election in 2013 have made significant contributions to the business since their appointment their last re-election and each has a key role to play in the formulation of the Groups future strategy.
Insurance and Indemnity In accordance with Article 162 of the Companys articles of association, and subject to the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006, the directors and officers of the Company are entitled to an indemnity from the Company against liabilities incurred by them in the actual or purported exercise of their duties, or exercise of their powers including liability incurred in defending any proceedings whether civil or criminal which relate to anything done or omitted to be done and in which judgment is given in his favour, or in which he is acquitted, or which are otherwise disposed of.
In addition, the Company has purchased and maintained directors and officers liability insurance cover against certain legal liabilities and costs for claims incurred in respect of any act or omission in the execution of their duties and which has been in place throughout the year.
In certain circumstances, directors are entitled to seek independent professional advice under an agreed board procedure, which would then be organised by the Company Secretary & Legal Counsel, and in this regard the Company would meet their reasonable legal expenses.
Board Effectiveness Board Balance The Board comprises individuals with wide business experience gained in various industry sectors related to the Companys business and it is the intention of the Board to ensure that the balance of the directors reflects the changing needs of the Groups business.
The Board considers that it is of a size and has the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and independence that is appropriate for the Companys business.
While not having a specific policy regarding the constitution and balance of the Board, potential new directors are considered on their own merits with regards to their skills, knowledge, experience and credentials.
Female candidates or candidates from any particular ethnic or national background would each be considered equally.
The non-executive directors continue to contribute their considerable collective experience and wide-ranging skills to the Board and provide a valuable independent perspective: where necessary constructively challenging proposals, policy and practices of executive management.
In addition, they helped formulate the Groups strategy.
Evaluation The Board is committed to an ongoing evaluation process of itself and its committees to assess their performance and identify areas in which their effectiveness, policies and processes might be enhanced.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, in discussion with the Senior Non-Executive Director, intend to undertake a review of the performance of individual directors.
The Senior Non-Executive Director will consider the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
Newly-appointed directors can expect a detailed and systematic induction on joining the Board.
They meet various members of senior management and familiarise themselves with all core aspects of the Groups operations.
On request, meetings can be arranged with the major shareholders.
In 2012, following his appointment, visits were arranged for Andrew Thomas to the Groups offices in Estonia, Israel and Cyprus to better understand the operations and financial controls of the Group.
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35 Governance Corporate Governance continued Relationship with Shareholders Primary responsibility for effective communication with shareholders lies with the Chairman, but all the Companys directors are available to meet with shareholders throughout the year.
In particular the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer prepare a general presentation for analysts and institutional shareholders following the interim and preliminary announcements.
Further presentations are also prepared following significant acquisitions and whenever the Board considers it beneficial to shareholders to do so.
Regular meetings with shareholders and potential shareholders are also held by the Head of Investor Relations.
The Company endeavours to answer all queries raised by shareholders promptly.
The Companys largest shareholder is Brickington Trading Limited Brickington.
Brickington is a wholly owned subsidiary of a trust, one of the ultimate beneficiaries of which is Teddy Sagi, one of the Groups founders.
In connection with the Companys Admission, the Company and Brickington have entered into a relationship agreement, pursuant to which Brickington has agreed that: i it will vote its shares in such a manner so as to procure that each member of the Group is capable of carrying on its business independently of Brickington and its associates: and ii it will not exercise any of the voting rights attaching to its shares in such a manner so as to procure any amendment to the articles of association which would be inconsistent with, undermine or breach any of the provisions of the relationship agreement.
Brickington has also agreed that all transactions and relationships between it or any of its associates and the Company will be on arms length terms and on a normal commercial basis.
The Board believes that the provisions of the relationship agreement provides reassurance that Brickington will not seek to exercise its shareholding capriciously and the independence of the Company.
In connection with the relationship agreement mentioned above, Mr. Sagi has entered into an agreement with the Company pursuant to which Mr. Sagi will, as and when requested to do so by the Company, provide advisory services to the Company for a nominal fee of 1.00 per annum until either Mr. Sagi ceases to be interested whether legally or beneficially in any ordinary shares or either party terminates the agreement following its fifth anniversary, whichever is the earlier.
The Company has not sought any advisory services under these arrangements during the year.
Shareholders are encouraged to participate in the Annual General Meeting at which the Chairman will present the key highlights of the Groups performance.
The Board will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions from shareholders.
Investor Relations IR and Communications The Company has well-established IR processes, which support a structured programme of communications with existing and potential investors and analysts.
Executive directors and members of the IR team participated in a number of investor events, attending industry conferences and regularly meet or are in contact with existing and potential institutional investors from around the world, ensuring that Group performance and strategy is effectively communicated, within regulatory constraints.
Other representatives of the Board and senior management meet with investors from time to time.
The IR team provides regular reports to the board on related matters, issues of concern to investors, and analysts views and opinions.
Whenever required, the executive directors and the Chairman communicate with the Companys brokers to confirm shareholder sentiment and to consult on governance issues.
During 2012, 36 regulatory announcements were released informing the market of acquisitions, corporate actions, important customer contracts, financial results, the results of annual general meetings and Board changes.
Copies of these announcements, together with other IR information and documents, are available on the Group website www.
Summary In presenting this report, and having monitored, reviewed or approved all shareholder communications in 2012 and since the end of the financial year, the Board is confident that it has presented a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
By order of the Board Roger Withers Chairman 14 March 2013 36 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
