Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 80 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS The Premier Farnell Leadership Council PFLC is a leadership Service excellence awards body which was formed when we began our strategic The senior leadership team at Premier Farnell spearhead Premier Farnell transformation.
The PFLC comprises the direct reports of theGroups quest to become a high performing company.
theChief Executive Officer CEO and Chief Operating Officer Aspart of this commitment to embrace high performance and Leadership COO, the individual business leaders and functional heads.
become an even more customer-focused market-leader every quarter they recognise the outstanding contribution of high Three times per year, the PFLC attends an internal conference performing employees who have delivered service excellence Council toreview research and develop the Groups strategy.
to the business in an extraordinary manner, which has Theconference is sometimes held in a single location with consequently further enhanced the level of service we provide allmembers attending in person, but more often than not to our customers.
Through embracing technology, leaders and senior managers use the latest telecommunication tools to allow the Employees and managers are encouraged to submit details PFLC to meet globally and simultaneously across the three ofan individual or team that they feel has gone above and regions of North America, Europe and Asia Pacific.
beyond their required duties to deliver a really high level of service, either internally or externally.
All these nominations This year, two of the three PFLC conferences held spanned arethen reviewed by the regional senior management team two days to give the business 200 most senior leaders and who select which of their regional nominations they believe high performers support in providing the wider organisation has delivered exceptional service to the organisation.
Those with clear and cohesive communications on current business selected in this regional process are then sent to the members performance.
The attendees also reviewed indetail each key of the PFLC for review.
pillar of the Groups strategy during the conference.
This approach of strong governance towards the Groups strategic The PFLC members vote for one individual or one team from direction ensures that now and in the future we are able to each category who they feel has exhibited true desire and continue to execute and deliver on the commitments made determination to deliver service excellence in that quarter.
toour customers, suppliers, shareholders and employees.
Theawards are categorised, with the global winners being recognised for internal customer service excellence, supplier Following feedback from last years all-employee survey, this service excellence, customer service excellence or going year two PFLC conferences were focused around leadership theextra degree and finally there is a special CEO award.
within the business named Leadership in Action and Allofthe global winners are invited to the quarters PFLC oneoncustomer loyalty.
Through the Leadership in Action conference to receive special recognition and an award meetings, the senior team were able to evaluate and discuss presented by Harriet Green.
In the event of very tough current business and strategic performance, before then competition, highly commended awards may be presented leveraging this work to define the organisations priorities locally by the business leaders.
This year, Premier Farnell forthe coming quarter.
recognised 72 individuals and teams from around the globe through its global service excellence awards.
