Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 81 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS Premier Farnell is committed to good corporate governance across the Group, for which the Board is accountable.
Corporate Thisreport describes how the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code have been applied during the year ended 29 January 2012. governance Chairmans overview The Chairmans views on corporate governance at Premier Farnell and our compliance with the Code are included in the Chairmans statement set out on pages 2 and 3 of this report.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Throughout the year ended 29 January 2012 we have complied with the main principles and provisions of the Codeand applied the principles of the Code in the manner described in this report.
The Companys description of its business model is set out in the Business Review starting atpage 36.
Corporate governance framework The Group operates within a clear governance framework, which is outlined in the diagram overleaf and set out in this report.
The Groups risk management framework is described in the risk management section on pages 94 and 95.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 82 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS Corporate governance continued During the year, the following changes were made: In addition to their statutory duties, the Directors must ensure group Board that the Board focuses effectively on all its accountabilities.
1 S ir Peter Gershon retired from the Board as a Non-Executive web Advisory The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership, determines Director and Chairman of the Board at the close of our Board and monitors performance of the Groups strategic aims, AGM on 14 June 2011. values and standards, ensures adequate succession planning Remuneration nomination 2 Mark Whiteling resigned from the Board as an Executive for senior management and monitors policies and Audit committee committee committee Director on 1 August 2011. performance on sustainability.
3 V al Gooding was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success tax and treasury Disclosure Director and Chairman of the Board on 15 June 2011. of the Group: the Executive Directors are directly responsible committee committee for running the business operations and the Non-Executive 4 Ni cholas Cadbury was appointed to the Board as an Directors are responsible for constructively challenging indicates reporting line only not a formal committee of the Board.
Executive Director to fulfil the role of Chief Financial Officer andhelping develop proposals on strategy, scrutinising on 1 September 2011.
Board size and composition theperformance of management, determining levels of More details on our Board members are on pages 78 and 79. remuneration and for succession planning for the Executive There are currently eight Directors on the Board: the Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors must also satisfy Chairman, four other Non-Executive Directors and three themselves on the integrity of financial information and that Executive Directors.
The size and composition of the Board Role of the Board financial controls and systems of risk management are robust.
and its Committees are regularly reviewed by the Board UK company law requires Directors to act in a way they and, in particular, the Nominations Committee to ensure that The Board reviews strategic issues on a regular basis and consider, in good faith, would promote the long term success there is an appropriate and diverse mix of skills, experience, exercises control over the performance of each operating ofthe Company for the benefit of shareholders as a whole.
independence and knowledge of the Group.
company within the Group by agreeing budgetary targets Indoing so, the Directors must have regard among other andmonitoring performance against those targets.
Certain things to: matters are reserved for approval by the Board and the The likely consequences of any decision in the long term: Boardhas overall responsibility for the Groups system ofinternal controls and risk management, as described The interests of Premier Farnell employees: onpages 94 and 95.
Following presentation by executive The need to foster Premier Farnells business relationships management and a disciplined process of review and with suppliers, customers and others: challenge by the Board, clear decisions on the policy and strategy are adopted and theexecutive management are The impact of Premier Farnells operations on the fullyempowered to implement those decisions.
community and the environment: The desirability of Premier Farnell maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct: and The need to act fairly as between shareholders ofPremierFarnell.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 83 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS The powers of the Board are set out in a formal schedule Approval of the division of responsibilities between the Board activities in 2012 ofmatters reserved for Board approval.
These matters are Chairman and Chief Executive.
At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive reported to the significant to the Group as a whole due to their strategic, Rules and procedures for dealing in the Companys shares.
Board on significant issues for the Company, factors relevant financial or reputational implications.
The schedule of matters to the businesses and on their performance and on the reserved for the Board is reviewed and updated regularly.
Succession planning and reward performance of the Group as a whole.
Reports were also Asummary of those matters is below.
Ensuring adequate succession plans are in place.
made by each of the principal Board Committees and Summary of matters reserved for the Board Board appointments and removals.
The diagram overleaf Strategic illustrates the areas of focus and examples of the related Appointment or removal of the Company Secretary.
Approval of and monitoring delivery of the Groups strategic activity of the Board in 2012. plans and annual business plans.
Appointment or removal of the auditors and determination ofthe audit fee.
Major changes in employee share schemes or pension Approving major acquisitions, mergers or disposals.
Finance, governance and controls Reporting Maintenance of a system of internal control and risk Approval of the annual report, interim, preliminary and management.
Approval of policies in respect of corporate governance, Decision on matters to be addressed in the business review.
treasury, sustainability, investor relations and political donations and the Companys Code of Conduct, Regulatory Approval of the Groups interim dividend and Approval of major projects and contracts and any matter recommendation of final dividend.
having a material impact on future financial performance ofthe business.
Compliance with the FSAs Listing Rules, Disclosure andTransparency Rules and the City Code on Takeovers Approval of Directors conflicts of interest.
Approval of terms of reference and membership ofBoardcommittees.
n g o i n s i s n e n c a c l u p S c i g e s t a m r t i s a t e S E n t l r e e a p d r Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 84 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS Corporate governance continued Key actions we have taken this year include: Role of the Chairman The role of the Chairman is to lead the Board to ensure Set strategic aims Reviewed and approved the proposed acquisition effectiveness in all aspects of its role and, in conjunction with Regularly reviewed progress of major strategic of Shenzhen Embest Technology Co Ltd, the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, to plan agenda initiatives a Chinese based technology company Dened and reviewed success criteria for the specialising in embedded development tools items and timings for Board meetings.
The Chairman ensures business as a further enhancement to our Services that the membership of the Board is appropriate to the needs Reviewed and approved the shaping actions Beyond Product proposition needed to ensure the Companys continued Received regular updates from the Web of the business, that Board committees carry out their duties, resilience, exibility and tness for purpose Advisory Board on innovations, developing including reporting to the Board, and that appropriate personal as a web-based business practice and opportunities in eCommerce objectives are established for the Chief Executive then Periodically reviewed market conditions and and the web sphere business performance, including reviews of Non-Executive Director visits to Singapore, advising her towards their achievement.
The Chairman also new and existing competitors India, Munich, Lige, Gaffney and Leeds ensures that Directors are up-to-date with training and Received training on the Groups websites and the Knode, our interactive ecosystem Framework of controls Premier development needs and kept well informed, particularly the offering a comprehensive suite of online Assessed the effectiveness of our financial Non-Executive Directors, so that Board members have the Farnell plc tools and solutions, from the point of view reporting controls, internal controls and of a design engineer assurance processes information necessary to take a full and constructive part in Consulted with major shareholders on areas Board discussions.
As part of the process of assessing the Succession planning of remuneration policy Chief Executives performance, the Chairman meets all of Appointed Val Gooding as Non-Executive Regularly reviewed situational conicts of Chairman, augmenting the Board with her Board members theNon-Executive Directors collectively at least once a year extensive knowledge and experience of Regular condential discussions with Head of without the Executive Directors present.
international expansions and global Internal Audit and External Audit and reviewed customer-focused, service industries their effectiveness Appointed Nicholas Cadbury as Chief Financial officer, whose strong mix of strategic, financial Sustainability Role of the Chief Executive and commercial experience in fast paced Reviewed and revised the Groups corporate distribution will be invaluable in driving change responsibility policy, re-dening it as our The role of the Chief Executive is to lead the delivery of Evaluated the Boards performance with dened sustainability policy to reect the breadth strategy and the executive management of the Group.
actions and regular review of achievements of the work involved and its impact on the against actions long term success of the Group TheChief Executive is responsible, among other things, Reviewed leadership succession planning for Reviewed and approved the Boards position forthedevelopment and implementation of strategy and the Groups senior roles and established on diversity processes which enable the Group to meet the requirements individualised development programmes for the Received regular updates on the Groups next layer of management to ensure a continued performance on sustainability and health of its shareholders, for meeting the Groups budget and pipeline of leadership talent to ll vacancies with and safety forproviding the appropriate environment to recruit, engage, internal talent Reviewed and approved a new, simpler, clearer Improved mentoring programme across the more accessible Code of Conduct to underpin retain and develop the personnel needed to deliver the strategy.
Group, with Non-Executive and Executive the Companys core values Directors acting as mentors to senior members Considered and approved the Groups stance of staff on bribery and corruption and the policies and procedures implemented to address the specic Entrepreneurial leadership bribery and corruption risks faced by the Group Reviewed performance against strategic Worked ever more greenly as a Board, KPIs at every meeting replacing board papers with electronic tablets for the whole Board e e r s n h e i u p r i a l y t i l i b a n i a t s u S s k l r o o r w t n e o m c a r f F o Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 85 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS Board of XL Group plc with effect from its April 2012 The letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors set Role of the Senior Independent Director boardmeeting.
She stepped down from her Non-Executive outthe time commitment expected to be necessary to The Senior Independent Director offers a line of Directorship of J Sainsbury plc in July 2011 and her positions at perform their duties.
The expected number of days required communication to the Company for shareholders on issues the BBC and the British Museum at the end of December 2011. ofeach Non-Executive Director excluding travel is 18 days.
they may not want to address through other channels.
For the Chairman of each of the Audit and Remuneration Throughout the year, Harriet Green was and remains a Hewould also lead the resolution of any significant issues Committees the expected number is 23 days in total.
This Non-Executive Director of Emerson Electric Co. and of BAE within the Board that it would not be appropriate for the wasincreased last year following a detailed review and reflects Systems plc.
In approving two external appointments for Chairor the CEO to handle, if any were to arise.
He acts the additional time our Non-Executive Directors spend in site Harriet, the Board recognises the importance and benefits asasounding board for the Chairman and leads the other visits, mentoring and training activities.
ofboth roles for Harriets ongoing development and the Non-Executive Directors in their annual appraisal of the advantages to the Company.
The specific benefits identified Chairmans performance.
Non-Executive Director independence bythe Board included: that the appointment to the board of a US company improves understanding of issues affecting US The Code sets out the circumstances that should be relevant Role of the Company Secretary businesses and assists our operations in that region: in depth tothe Board in determining whether each Non-Executive The Company Secretary and his team provide support to the knowledge of how other boards operate in other industries, Director is independent and whether the Chairman is Board.
Their services are available to all Directors, particularly the FTSE 100 and overseas jurisdictions: and the opportunities independent on appointment.
The Board considers the Non-Executive Directors, in order to ensure they receive for networking with other senior executives.
The Board agrees Non-Executive Director independence on an annual basis timely and accurate information to fulfil their duties.
Directors that these factors improve Harriets ability to drive our business aspart of each Non-Executive Directors performance may also take independent professional advice on request at forward and justify both appointments.
Inits 2012 review, the Board concluded that the Companys expense.
satisfied that the time commitments required for these alltheNon-Executive Directors who had served during the appointments do not represent an issue for the Group in year other than the Chairman for whom this is not relevant lightof the overall strength and commitment of Harriet and External appointments and Non-Executive underthe Code were independent.
The Chairman met hersenior management team.
Directors time commitments theindependence criteria defined by the Code as at the dateof her appointment.
Details of the remuneration received for these external Premier Farnell recognises that there are significant appointments is included in the Remuneration Report on advantages to individuals and to the Board as a whole of our page107.
Directors serving on the boards of other companies.
In line with the Code recommendation, the Companys policy is that Non-Executive Directors are required to obtain the approval Executive Directors are permitted to hold one Non-Executive ofthe Chairman before taking on any further appointments Directorship with another company, with all external and the Chairman requires the approval of the Board before appointments being approved by the Board.
In all cases Directors must ensurethat their external appointments do not involve a time Our Chairman, Val Gooding maintained her Non-Executive commitment that would adversely affect their responsibilities Directorships at Standard Chartered Bank, the Home Office to Premier Farnell.
and the Lawn Tennis Association and was appointed to the Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 86 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS Corporate governance continued European business headquartered there, meet talented Length of service of Non-Executive Directors Induction, business awareness and development performers and review business performance and plans The respective periods of service of our Non-Executive A formal and comprehensive induction process is in place withlocal management.
These visits and presentations are Directors including the Chairman see below.
This includes an information pack and inaddition to the frequent presentations and updates to the personalised induction programme that is tailored to the Board on current issues made to the Board at other Board needs of each Director and agreed with him or her so that Re-election of Directors meetings throughout the year by Executive Directors and heor she can gain a better understanding of the Group and othersenior managers.
In line with the Code, all Directors seek re-election every itsbusinesses.
As well as an overview of the Group and its yearand any Director appointed during the year also seeks As a further aspect of their ongoing development, each functions and governance, the process also encompasses election at the next AGM.
In compliance with the Code, all Director receives feedback on his or her performance detailed reviews of the strategic projects and initiatives ofour Directors will retire at our AGM in June 2012 and offer following the Boards performance evaluation in each year.
underway and one-to-one meetings with the senior managers themselves for re-election or election.
responsible for their implementation and for the relevant Directors also act as mentors to senior management, which functions and site visits.
Board policies, prior papers and increases exposure for senior management to the Directors Conflicts of interest minutes are provided to and discussed with new Directors.
and allows them to take advantage of our Directors extensive experience.
This process also gives our Non-Executive Under UK company law, all Directors must seek authorisation In order to ensure that Directors continue to further their Directors the opportunity to evaluate senior leaders below before taking up any position that conflicts, or may possibly understanding of the issues facing the Group and are able Board level, considerably enhancing their knowledge for conflict, with the interests of Premier Farnell.
Our Articles tochallenge constructively and help develop proposals on succession planning.
Non-Executive Directors have also ofAssociation contain provisions to allow the Directors to strategy, the Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to provided their feedback on a number of senior executives well authorise situations of potential conflicts of interest so that undertake individual visits to Group locations and a number known to them as part of the 360 degree appraisal process aDirector is not in breach of his or her duty under company ofsuch visits to have taken place this year to our sites in for those individuals.
All existing external appointments and other situations Singapore, India, Munich, Lige, Gaffney USA and Leeds ofpotential conflicts of interest for each Director have been UK.
In addition, at least one Board meeting each year is authorised by the Board and a register of these so-called normally held at a Premier Farnell site other than its corporate Performance evaluation situational conflicts is kept, noted at each Board meeting head office.
In light of the wider economic environment and The Code recommends that an evaluation of the effectiveness andreviewed on an annual basis.
All Directors are aware of ina drive for cost savings, no off-site Board meeting was held of the Board and its Committees is conducted annually and the need to consult with the Company Secretary regarding in the year ended 29 January 2012.
However, the Board will that this process is externally facilitated at least every third any further conflicts which may arise so that prior hold their June 2012 meeting in Leeds, giving Directors the year.
In 2011, this evaluation was carried out internally to consideration can be given by the Board as to whether opportunity to visit the Maybrook distribution centre and the assess the performance of the Board as a whole and that ornotsuch conflict should be approved.
group offices of the Farnell element14 business.
The Directors ofits Committees and then Directors individually.
will improve their knowledge and understanding of the Board succession Non-Executive Directors Director Date of appointment 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 A Dougal 01 09 2006 D Millard 01 09 2007 T Reddin 30 09 2010 P Withers 01 09 2007 V Gooding 15 06 2011 term 1 term 2 notwithstanding that appointments may be made for longer than a one-year term, each Director stands for re-election by shareholders annually.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 87 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS The main outcomes of this evaluation in 2011 and actions taken are summarised below: In March 2011 an independent expert on Board performance, Professor Andrew Kakabadse, led a discussion of the entire Board on its performance, drawing on his considerable 2011 Performance review experience ofthe common features of high-performing boards.
In addition to this discussion, Outcome Action taken during the year the Chairman held a one-to-one discussion with each of the other Directors, based on a number of key questions relevant to the Boards role, its performance in meeting that role In order to ensure clarity is fully and effectively A review of the current process for quarterly results andkey Company events.
The results of these discussions were then reviewed by the Board maintained as to theroles of the Executive and announcements was undertaken by the Senior atits December 2011 meeting.
In light of the Chairmans recent appointment in June, the Non-Executive Directors in preparing and agreeing Independent Director and Chief Financial Officer evaluation of the Chairmans performance was postponed to March 2013.
Group Financial Statements, the process for andsuccessfully applied to the preliminary results approval of quarterly results announcements announcements for the year ended 30 January 2011 The main points raised by this years evaluation and the actions arising are summarised below: shouldbe reviewed.
and all results announcements made since then.
2012 Performance review In light of the changes to the Board envisaged The role statements for the Chairman and Chief Outcome Action taken during the year inJune 2011, itwouldbe beneficial to confirm Executive Officer were reviewed by the Chairman, thatthe written role statements oftheChairman Chief Executive and Company Secretary toensure Consider adding one further meeting or A Board teleconference is now scheduled for andChief Executive fully and effectively reflect that the division of responsibilities is clear and that teleconference between the usual September October 2012. working practices.
ways of working are adequately reflected.
Changes andDecember meetings to receive updates to the role statements were proposed and these onanddiscuss trading and major projects.
were approved at the Boards March 2011 meeting.
To improve understanding of regional business Each Regional Business President will present The Board should hold an externally facilitated The Board held an externally facilitated discussion issues, it would be helpful to receive a presentation tothe Board at least once during the coming year.
in March 2011. from each regional business on an annual basis.
Hold one dinner or meeting annually which only The first such dinner was held in January 2012. theNon-Executive Directors attend.
Consider a full externally facilitated Board evaluation An externally facilitated Board evaluation will take review in the financial year ending in January 2013. place during the financial year ending 2013 To aid in their review, board papers should follow Guidance on the preparation of board papers aconsistent and concise format.
wasissued to management in December 2011.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 88 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS Corporate governance continued Committee members regularly schedule time before or after a Board Committees Audit Committee meeting, without any Executive Directors or senior management Certain responsibilities of the Board are delegated to the During the year, the Committee comprised: present, to raise any questions and discuss issues with the Board Committees to assist the Board in carrying out its external auditors or Head of Internal Audit.
TheChairman of Dennis Millard Chairman functions and to ensure independent oversight of internal the Audit Committee meets each of the Head of Internal Audit Andrew Dougal control and risk management.
The three principal Board and the external auditor separately to review current issues Paul Withers Committees Audit, Remuneration and Nominations play and developments prior to each meeting of the Audit Committee.
Steven Webb Secretary anessential role in supporting the Board in fulfilling its The Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the Chief responsibilities and ensuring that the highest standards of Executive Officer for line management purposes and corporate governance are maintained throughout the Group.
functionally to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The minutes of each Board Committee meeting are circulated Audit Committee terms of reference summary and noted by the Board.
This section of the report sets out Reviews accounting policies and the integrity and content how the Board and its Committees work within the ofthe financial statements.
governance framework and corporate governance guidelines.
Monitors disclosure controls and procedures and the Each Committees terms of reference set out the specific Groups internal controls.
matters for which delegated authority has been given by theBoard.
Their terms of reference are reviewed annually Dennis Millard Considers the adequacy and scope of external and andare available on the Governance section of our website Audit Committee Chairman internalaudits.
A summary of the terms of Dennis Millard, the Chairman of the Committee, brings Oversees the relationship with and appointment of the reference for each Committee is included in the Committee significant recent and relevant financial expertise, which external auditor.
isaugmented by the considerable financial expertise Monitors the independence and effectiveness of the external andexperience of the other members of the Committee.
auditor, particularly with regard to the scope and There ismore information on Denniss experience on page 79. expenditure on non-audit work.
In addition to Committee members, there are a number of Reviews and approves the statements to be included in regular attendees at each meeting.
The Chief Executive, the theannual report on internal control and risk management.
Chairman, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Head of Internal Audit and lead external audit partner normally Monitors the financial reporting process.
attend all scheduled Audit Committee meetings.
The Audit The independence and objectivity of the external auditor Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 89 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS areconsidered on a regular basis.
The external auditors Remuneration Committee terms of reference summary Remuneration Committee appointment is subject to regular review and the lead audit Determines remuneration for Executive Directors.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee comprised: partner is rotated at least every five years.
Particular regard Reviews and has regard to remuneration trends across isalso given to the level of non-audit fees.
A formal policy Paul Withers Chairman theGroup when setting remuneration policy for ismaintained on the provision of non-audit services which Andrew Dougal ExecutiveDirectors.
prohibits the provision of services such as financial information Dennis Millard systems design and implementation, internal audit outsourcing Recommends and monitors the level and structure Steven Webb Secretary or legal services, although tax compliance services are ofremuneration for senior executives across the Group allowed within defined monetary limits.
All other permitted thefirst layer of management below Board level.
non-audit services are considered on a case-by-case basis Approves design of and targets for performance-related bythe Chairman on behalf of the Audit Committee.
This policy payfor Executive Directors, approving any payments to also allows certain audit-related services to be provided by bemade based on performance.
theauditor within defined monetary limits.
The full non-audit services policy is available in the Governance section of our Determines the fees of the Chairman.
At each meeting, the Approves contracts of employment with Executive Directors.
Audit Committee receives a report on all non-audit services provided and the estimated cost since the last meeting.
Approves the design of and governs employee share schemes.
Paul Withers TheAudit Committee monitors these costs in the context Remuneration Committee Chairman Approves the policy for expense claims by Directors.
ofthe audit fee for the year, in order to ensure that the potential In addition to the Committee members, there are a number to affect auditor independence and objectivity does not arise.
Oversees changes to employee benefit structures.
ofregular attendees at each meeting, including the Chief The split between audit and non-audit fees for 2012 and Considers risks to the Group as a result of remuneration plans.
Executive, the Chairman, Chief Financial Officer, Chief information on the nature of the non-audit fees incurred is Operating Officer and Chief People Officer.
No individual detailed on page 127 of the consolidated financial statements.
Full details of Directors remuneration and a statement of our ispresent when their own remuneration or fees are decided.
remuneration policy are detailed in the Remuneration report.
The Audit Committee has adopted and implemented a Group-wide policy restricting the employment by the Group offormer employees as the external auditor.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 90 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS Corporate governance continued As part of its role is to review the composition of the Board, The Nominations Committee recognises the benefits to the Nominations Committee the Nominations Committee recommended the appointment Group of diversity in the workforce and in the composition The composition of the Nominations Committee during the of a new Non-Executive Chairman and Chief Financial Officer.
The benefits to the Company of diversity year was: In line with our policy on the appointment of Directors, inits workforce and in the composition of the Board itself theNominations Committee evaluated the balance of skills, arerecognised.
While the Company will continue to make Val Gooding Chairman appointed 15 June 2011 experience, independence and knowledge of the Board allappointments based on the best candidate for the role, its Andrew Dougal before preparing detailed candidate specifications, which target is for women to make up 30% of management grade Harriet Green defined the criteria for the new appointees.
The Company is well on the way to achieving this, Dennis Millard specifications were agreed with the Chief Executive Officer with women representing 27% of the executive director and Thomas Reddin and approved by the Nominations Committee.
In accordance their direct report population.
The Board itself has achieved Paul Withers with the requirements of those specifications, external search the 2012 goal of 25% female membership recommended Steven Webb Secretary agencies were engaged to assist with the searches for byLord Davies earlier this year for FTSE 100 companies, suitable candidates.
A short-list of potential appointees following the appointment of Val Gooding.
The short-listed candidates for the position information on the Companys policy and practices on ofChairman were interviewed by the Senior Independent diversity on page 66 of the Business Review.
Director and Chief Executive Officer while those for the role Nominations Committee terms of reference summary ofChief Financial Officer were interviewed by the Chairman Reviews the composition of the Board.
and the Chief Executive Officer.
Following those interviews, thefinal candidates were selected and interviewed by Recommends appointment of new Directors.
In addition Considers succession plans for senior and executive positions.
toherwide commercial experience, Val Gooding was Val Gooding selectedasour newChairman for her extensive knowledge Nominations Committee Chairman andexperience ofinternational expansions and global customer-focused, service industries.
Nicholas Cadbury wasselected asour newChief Financial Officer for his strongmix of strategic, financial, international and commercial experience infast-paced distribution.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 91 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS Key activities for the Committees in 2012 Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Reviewed financial statements in annual report, half year results Reviewed recommendations and approved awards to employees The Committee meets as necessary.
under the ESOP and PSP schemes.
Led the search for a new Non-Executive Chairman Reviewed scope and effectiveness of internal and external Engaged with major investors regarding Executive Director andChiefFinancial Officer.
remuneration and the Directors Remuneration Report 2012.
Recommended the appointment of Val Gooding as Non-Executive Reviewed performance of the external audit partner.
Reviewed executive compensation including salaries, bonuses, Chairman and Nicholas Cadbury as ChiefFinancial Officer.
the performance against objectives in the prior year and the Reviewed the policy on and provision of non-audit services Reviewed Board and Board Committee composition toensure adequacy of objectives for 2012. bytheexternal auditors.
correct mix of skills and experience.
Monitored effectiveness of the system of internal controls and riskmanagement.
Reviewed and approved the Directors Remuneration Report 2011.
Received reports from external and internal audit on the major findings of their work.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 92 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS Corporate governance continued an unrivalled team of experts, selected to represent key Other committees Tax and Treasury Committee parts of the challenges we face: These committees form part of the Corporate Governance The Tax and Treasury Committee is made up of the Chief advice and insight on and a unique networking opportunity Framework, but are not formally appointed committees of Financial Officer whoacts as Chairman of the Committee, in the external environment: theBoard.
Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Head ofGlobal Planning and Analysis and Head of Internal Audit.
the leveraging of new ideas and new thinking each Web advisory board Itmeets four times ayear and provides recommendations quarter:and The Web Advisory Boards WAB primary function is to offer tothe Board on theGroup strategy and policy for tax and counsel to the Board and the Chief Executive Officer on both tactical, medium term advice in areas like search, treasury matters.
Thisincludes risk identification, annual matters relating to the web and eCommerce.
It brings together usability, and community and a critical, long term view confirmations to the Audit Committee on the internal controls internal and external expertise and capabilities in core areas oftheonline environment and where the Company can for tax and treasury, the monitoring of KPIs and approval ofour eCommerce strategy, enabling these experts to bring bestexploit new opportunities.
challenge and insight to accelerate further our progress in these important strategic areas.
Disclosure Committee Board meetings Thomas Reddin is chair of the WAB, drawing on his extensive The Disclosure Committee is made up of the Executive The Board has five Board meetings scheduled each year experience in eCommerce and brand work.
Other regular Directors, the Company Secretary, the Group Financial andall scheduled meetings had 100% attendance.
In addition contributors include representatives from software and IT Controller, the Head of Internal Audit and our Investor to the five scheduled meetings in 2011 12, there were five industries, from companies specialising in enterprise search Relations Manager.
It meets four times a year to review all additional Board meetings held to consider: a commercially and business intelligence applications and from web platform results announcements, following certification from individual confidential project in March 2011: the announcement of providers as well as EDEs.
The WAB meets four times a year executive managers which together cover all sections theCompanys trading update in July 2011: some proposed to review major web developments and potential opportunities oftheannouncements.
Reports of the proceedings are changes to the terms of the Companys re-financing in and threats for the Company online and offers the Company: provided to the Audit Committee, along with the minutes November 2011: approval of the Companys third quarter a powerful external lens into the Groups online strategy: oftheDisclosure Committee meetings.
results announcement in December 2011: and the shaping actions needed to ensure the Companys continued resilience, a unique approach to driving our web business and flexibility and fitness for purpose as a web-based business ensuring that the best ideas from other markets are drawn inJanuary 2012. together and examined in relation to our own journey: Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 93 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS Scheduled Board and Committee meetings are arranged Board and Committee attendance Non-Executive Director Board briefings atleast one year in advance and all Directors are expected The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board The Chief Executive meets on a one-to-one basis with the toattend each meeting.
All Directors are provided with and its Committees during 2012 and individual attendance Non-Executive Directors in between Board meetings and thepapers and relevant information in advance of each byBoard and Committee members at those meetings.
aheadof each scheduled Board meeting to brief them on meeting and, if a Director is unable to attend a meeting thebusiness of the meeting, as well as to seek their counsel, duetoexceptional circumstances, he or she will still receive Audit Remuneration Nominations exchange ideas and discuss the Groups business and the supporting papers and will usually discuss any matters Board Committee Committee Committee affairs.
The Non-Executive Directors use these meetings Name of Director meetings meetings meetings meetings theywish to raise with the Chairman of the meeting, in asanopportunity toadvise the Chief Executive whether ordertoensure his or her views are given consideration.
A B A B A B A B theyhave any specific questions they would like to raise TheChairman, Chief Executive and Company Secretary aboutthe business of themeeting.
The Chief Executive, Chairman worktogether to ensure that the Directors receive relevant Chairman and Company Secretary are always available 3 information for them to discharge their duties and that such Val Gooding 7 7 0 0 fortheDirectors to discuss anyissues concerning Board information is accurate, timely and clear.
The communication 1 Sir Peter Gershon 3 3 1 1 meetings or other matters.
of information applies to all scheduled Board meetings, but Executive Directors isparticularly important in exceptional circumstances where Governance framework the Board needs to respond to changing market conditions.
Harriet Green 10 10 1 1 We provide all our Directors with an electronic tablet for easy Premier Farnell aims to build a sustainable business through Laurence Bain 10 9 access to papers regardless of location and secure access consistent, profitable growth and to make sure that our 4 Nicholas Cadbury 6 6 toelectronic copies of meeting papers and other key documents customers and wider stakeholders can trust us.
We recognise via a dedicated website.
The documents include past and 2 Mark Whiteling 4 4 that creating shareholder value is the reward for taking current Board and Committee papers, reports, minutes, acceptable risks.
Non-Executive policies, press coverage, analyst reports and material from Directors The Board has overall accountability for running the business briefing sessions.
Andrew Dougal 10 9 4 4 5 5 1 1 effectively by making sure all risks are appropriately managed.
Meeting attendance for 2012 is set out in the table below.
Internal controls and risk management are designed to SID Dennis Millard 10 9 4 4 5 5 1 1 In2012, all Directors committed an appropriate amount limitthe chance of failure to achieve corporate objectives.
oftimeto fulfil their duties and responsibilities to the Board.
Thomas Reddin 10 9 1 1 Independent assurance is provided by the external and internal auditors who present their findings regularly to the Paul Withers 10 8 4 4 5 5 1 1 Audit Committee.
The system includes an ongoing process A maximum number of meetings Director could have attended.
foridentifying, evaluating and managing significant business B number of meetings Director actually attended.
However, any system can provide only reasonable and SiD Senior independent non-executive Director.
not absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives 1 Sir Peter gershon retired from the Board and all committees on 14 June 2011.
2 mark whiteling retired from the Board on 1 August 2011. and is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk 3 val gooding was appointed to the Board on 15 June 2011. ofthe Company failing to meet its business objectives.
4 nicholas cadbury was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2011.
All instances of non-attendance by Directors arose in relation to unscheduled Board meetings called on short notice.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 94 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS Corporate governance continued The Audit Committee has completed its review of the Management regularly conducts reviews of the internal Effective internal control effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control during controls in place in respect of the processes of preparing One of the Boards key responsibilities is to ensure that the year, which is in compliance with the Turnbull Guidance consolidated financial information and financial reporting.
management maintains a system of internal control which onInternal Control Revised Guidance for Directors on the During the year, there were no changes to the internal controls provides assurance of effective and efficient operations, Combined Code 2005.
It confirms that the necessary action over the processes of financial reporting and preparation of internal financial controls and compliance with law and plans to remedy identified weaknesses in internal control are consolidated financial information that have, or are reasonably regulation.
The Boards consideration of the materiality inplace and have been throughout the year.
The Board also, likely to materially affect the level of assurance provided over offinancial and other risks to the Groups business and where appropriate, ensures that necessary actions have been, the reliability of the financial statements.
reputation ensures that appropriate controls are in place.
or are being, taken to remedy significant failings or weaknesses Consideration is also given to the relative costs and benefits identified from the review of effectiveness of internal controls.
Risk identification The Groups internal controls over the financial reporting and Assurance As well as the risks that management identifies through consolidation processes are designed under the supervision On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee examines the theongoing processes of reporting and comparing actual of the Chief Financial officer to provide reasonable assurance effectiveness of the: performance against detailed financial and operating regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the plans, analysing significant variances and scrutinising key preparation and fair presentation of the Groups published Systems of internal control, primarily through approving the performance indicators, the Audit Committee has additional financial statements for external reporting purposes in internal audit plan and reviewing its findings, reviews of the risk identification processes, which include: accordance with IFRS.
financial controls for financial reporting of the annual, half year and quarterly financial statements and a review of the Risks and controls process for identifying, evaluating and Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over nature, scope and reports of external audit.
During the year, business financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance, and and function leaders have operated the process, which may not prevent or detect all misstatements whether caused Management of risk by reviewing evidence of risk assessment hasbeen co-ordinated by the Head of Internal Audit.
activity and internal audit reports on the process.
Internal and external audit reports, which comment The Groups internal control over financial reporting and the Action taken to manage critical risks or to remedy any oncontrols to manage identified risks and also identify preparation of consolidated financial information includes control failings or weaknesses identified.
policies and procedures that provide reasonable assurance that transactions have been recorded and presented accurately.
Finance Officers of subsidiary businesses of the Groupare required to certify that the financial information theyhave provided as part of the annual consolidation process has been properly prepared and reviewed in accordance with instructions from the Group Finance Department.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 95 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS Our Code of Conduct, which was reviewed and updated The Board also has an annual process to review the Groups The approval and implementation in 2012 of a number in2012 to make it more user-friendly.
The Code of Conduct risk appetite, considering the key factors underpinning delivery ofanti-bribery and corruption AB&C policies and encourages employees to report any areas of concern of the Group strategy and supporting sustainable operational procedures, designed to address the specific areas of risk regarding compliance with controls, combined with a and financial performance.
The exercise was undertaken of corruption faced by the Group, taking into account the confidential whistleblowing helpline.
In addition, employees through detailed interviews conducted with each Director nature of its businesses and the sectors and territories are encouraged to raise comments, questions and around specific risks and discussed in detail at a Board inwhich it does business.
These policies and procedures concerns confidentially and directly with the Chief Executive meeting.
This exercise is in addition to the evaluation of have been disseminated and reinforced by the provision using the askharriet email function and can address majorbusiness risks and controls referred to above.
ofAB&C training tailored to the needs, responsibilities and theirquestions on anti-bribery and corruption through experiences of the relevant target audiences within the Controls theGroups dedicated AB&C email hotline.
Group and the launch of an AB&C resource portal on the The internal controls which provide assurance to Groups intranet.
Disclosure Committee meetings which are held at least theCommittee of effective and efficient operations, fourtimes a year to review all financial statements.
internalfinancial controls and compliance with law The control of key financial risks through clear authorisation TheDisclosure Committee reports into the Audit Committee andregulation include: levels and proper segregation of duties.
and requires certification from individual executive managers Defined organisational structure with authorities Our comprehensive financial review cycle.
The annual on the relevant sections of all financial statements.
budget is approved by the Board and monthly variances A quarterly process to collate all contingent liabilities arereviewed against detailed financial and operating plans.
Formal authorisation process for investments.
identified by the business units and function heads.
The quarter end controls checklist and Disclosure Thisreport is tabled at the Disclosure Committee and Clearly defined responsibilities for financial management Committee, which requires sign off from the Chief Executive thenreviewed by the Audit Committee.
onmaintenance of financial controls and the production and Chief Financial Officers of each business unit, covering andreview of detailed, accurate and timely financial A Tax and Treasury Committee which identifies and internal controls, legal and regulatory compliance, Code of management information.
manages the Groups risks for tax and treasury and Conduct, tax issues and financial controls.
provides an annual confirmation to the Audit Committee The reporting line of the Head of Internal Audit to the A process of internal control self-assessment co-ordinated thattax and treasury policies have been implemented ChiefExecutive Officer and to the Audit Committee.
by the Internal Audit team.
correctly and an efficient and effective system for internal The Code of Conduct which clearly defines expected control is in place for tax and treasury.
The Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the standards of business behaviour.
The Code of Conduct preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts is on page 101 wasrevised in 2012, is widely publicised and included ofthe Directors report.
aspart of the employee induction programme.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 96 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS Corporate governance continued Shareholder engagement activities Relations with stakeholders shareholders Relations with stakeholders employees, suppliers Our Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and and customers Engagement with our shareholders is essential to ensure Chairofour Audit Committee, the Chairman of our agreater understanding of and confidence in the medium We give a high priority to employee communications.
Remuneration Committee and our Company Secretary andlonger term strategy of Premier Farnell and in the Boards Aswellas the formal structures, considerable time is heldindividual meetings, in person and by phone, with ability to oversee its implementation.
The Chairman supported giventoother forms of employee communication.
anumber of ourmajor shareholders, at which issues by the Senior Independent Director and the Chairman of the suchas strategy, succession planning and executive Premier Farnell also communicates with suppliers and Remuneration Committee on matters relating to Executive remuneration were discussed.
customers, individually and at group events.
We are very Director remuneration is primarily responsible for ensuring active in our local communities as described in some We carried out an extensive consultation with our major that the Board is accessible to major shareholders and that detailinthe Sustainability section of the Business review shareholders, soliciting their views on our proposals on channels for communication are open.
She also has principal onpages 72 to 76 and the online version of the Sustainability executive remuneration through face-to-face meetings, responsibility for ensuring that the Board is aware of any Report at http: annualreport2012.
com phone calls and written correspondence.
concerns raised by major shareholders and that their views .
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Our Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer held many Officer also have regular dialogue with institutional shareholders.
Stakeholder engagement activities meetings with investors throughout the year.
All other ordinary shareholders have the opportunity to ask Employee briefings including our annual Kick-off Our Annual Investor Day, where, in addition to presentations questions at our AGMs, where all Directors are expected to be event, regular town halls and green days conducted by Premier Farnell on key initiatives, such as its Services available to take questions.
All of our then Directors attended bytheChiefExecutive and other senior management Beyond Product offering, presentations were also made our AGM in June 2011 and were available to shareholders.
byone of the Companys customers on Premier Farnells Group-wide intranet which is accessible to all employees proposition and on current developments in the web sphere through their work computer or local cyber caf, gives by a senior representative of Google.
The audience were awide range of Group information, news and the ability also given a demonstration of the Knode, the Companys topost real-time comments.
interactive ecosystem of online tools and solutions.
Annual Kick-off meetings to involve employees in the The Chairman and Andrew Dougal attended our Annual strategic priorities for the coming year.
The askharriet email facility for employees.
All Directors attend and have dialogue with our shareholders at our AGM.
Our annual employee engagement survey.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 97 OveRview StRAtegic FOcuS BuSineSS Review gOveRnAnce FinAnciAl StAtementS Customer buddy programme, whereby employees choose AGM a customer to work closely with.
We propose separate resolutions for each issue and Initiatives such as our Net Promoter Score, a framework shareholders are able to vote for or against or withhold their enabling us to measure customer satisfaction and drive vote on each resolution.
The results of all proxy voting are customer-focused change throughout Premier Farnell.
published on our website after the meeting.
The notice of Weare committed to creating a complete lifecycle AGMis sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before experience for our customers so that at every contact the meeting.
pointwe treat customers in a manner likely to earn their lifetime loyalty.
Going concern Customer councils, focus groups and surveys to gain The Groups business activities and financial position: customer insight on planned initiatives, receive feedback thefactors likely to affect its future development and and pulse views on our proposition and service.
performance: and its objectives and policies in managing thefinancial risks to which it is exposed and its capital Social media for suppliers and customers, using Twitter arediscussed in the Business review.
andFacebook to provide real time immediate connections.
The Directors have assessed, in the light of current and Maintain and secure relationships with top suppliers, driving anticipated economic conditions, the Groups ability to excellence in overall supplier management and engagement.
Our annual eSupplier summit at which our key suppliers The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Company come together with leaders from our eCommerce and andthe Group have adequate resources to continue Innovation teams to review plans and proposals for the inbusiness for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, enhancement of our proposition and to define the key theycontinue to adopt the going concern basis for partthat our suppliers play in that.
Share capital and control Details are included on page 99 of the Directors report.
