Report on corporate governance The Board is committed to meeting the standards of good corporate governance as established by the Financial Reporting Council from time to time.
In respect of the year ended 31 May 2012, the UK Corporate Governance Code published in June 2010 the Code was applied by the Company.
The Code is publicly available on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
This report, together with the Report on Directors remuneration in respect of remuneration matters, describes how the Board applied the Code during the year under review.
Board evaluation Composition and independence As at the date of this report, the Board of Directors has 11 members comprising the Non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, three other Executive Directors and six Non-executive Directors.
The names of the Directors together with their biographical details are set out on pages 32 to 33.
The size of the Board allows individuals to communicate openly and to make a personal contribution through the exercise of their individual skills and experience.
The Non-executive Directors have been appointed for their specific experience and expertise and are all considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Mr Harvey is a Non-executive Director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Plc, which acts as insurance broker to the Company.
Mr Lewis is a former partner of Addleshaw Goddard LLP, which acts as legal advisor to the Company.
The level of fees payable to each of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Plc and Addleshaw Goddard LLP is not material and the Board is wholly satisfied that it is appropriate to designate each of Mr Harvey and Mr Lewis as independent.
Neither of them participated in any way in the provision of services by the relevant supplier to the Company.
In addition, in order that his independence is not compromised, if at any time the Board or a Committee of the Board is considering any matter concerning one of the suppliers, it has been agreed that the relevant individual will withdraw from that meeting until such matters have been dealt with.
Mr Lewis is the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and in this capacity he is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
After eight years service to the Board, with effect from the 2012 Annual General Meeting Mr Lewis will retire and Mr Steel will be appointed Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
Non-executive Directors may serve on the boards of other companies provided that this does not involve a conflict of interest and that the appointment does not restrict their ability to discharge their duties to the Company in any way.
As set out in the Report of the Directors, the Board has resolved to comply with the provisions of the Code and each Director will seek re-election annually.
The Executive Directors service contracts and the letters setting out the terms of appointment of the Non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
Diversity The Company supports the Code provision that Boards should consider the benefits of diversity, including gender, when making appointments and is committed to ensuring diversity not just at Board level but also across the Companys senior management team, not least because it believes that business benefits from the widest range of perspectives and backgrounds.
The Companys aim as regards the composition of the Board is that it should have a balance of experience, skills and knowledge to enable each Director and the Board as a whole to discharge their duties effectively.
Whilst the Company agrees that it is entirely appropriate that it should seek to have diversity on its Board, it does not consider that this can be best achieved by establishing specific quotas and targets and appointments will continue to be made based wholly on merit.
Further details on diversity within the business are set out in the CSR report on pages 20 to 31.
Performance evaluation Effectiveness reviews of the Board and its committees are carried out annually.
The results are reviewed by the Chairman of the Board or Board committee, discussed in a formal meeting and any appropriate recommendations are recorded and acted upon.
The review process which was undertaken during the year concluded that all Directors continue to contribute effectively and with proper commitment, devoting adequate time to carry out their duties.
The performance of the Non-executive Directors is evaluated separately by the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee reviews Executive Directors performance with guidance from the Chief Executive other than in respect of his own position.
PZ Cussons Plc 44 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Operation of the Board The Board is responsible for the Groups strategic development, monitoring its business objectives and maintaining a system of effective corporate governance.
Six formal meetings of the Board were scheduled during the year and the Directors met on a number of further occasions as necessary to consider specific matters arising and to review and develop the Companys corporate strategy.
The differing roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are acknowledged and set out in terms of reference which have been adopted by the Board.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the running of the Board and ensuring that it is supplied in a timely manner with sufficient information to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Chief Executive is responsible for coordinating the running of the business and implementing Group strategy.
All Directors communicate with each other on a regular basis and have regular and ready access to members of the Groups management team.
Senior executives are invited to attend Board meetings to make presentations on specific matters or projects.
Board papers are prepared and issued to all Directors in good time prior to each Board meeting to enable Directors to give due consideration to all matters in advance of the meeting.
During the year, the Board has maintained an understanding of the views of major shareholders through face to face meetings and briefings from the Companys brokers.
The Board has adopted formal procedures for Directors to take independent professional advice where necessary at the Companys expense and each Director has full access to the services of the Company Secretary who is also responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and all applicable rules and regulations are followed.
The Board has an approved and documented schedule of matters reserved for its decision, including approval of the Groups strategy, annual budgets, material agreements and major capital expenditure and acquisitions, the approval of financial arrangements, and the monitoring of performance, health, safety and environmental matters and risk management procedures.
The Board has also adopted a formal induction process for Directors including visits to principal sites and meetings with operating management.
Directors may take additional training where necessary as part of their continuing development at the expense of the Company.
Committees of the Board The Board has established a number of standing committees to which various matters are delegated according to defined terms of reference.
The terms of reference of the committees are available on the Companys website www.
com and will also be available at the Annual General Meeting.
Details of the principal standing committees of the Board are set out as follows: Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and identifying and recommending appropriate candidates for membership of the Board when vacancies arise.
During the year ended 31 May 2012, the Committee members were Mr Harvey Committee Chairman, Professor Arnold, Mr Heale, Mr Kanellis, Mr Lewis, Mr Steel and, with effect from their appointment to the Board on 1 January 2012, Ms Edozien and Mrs Owers.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
During the year, the Committee undertook the process of identifying new independent Non-executive Directors, culminating in the appointment to the Board of Ms Edozien and Mrs Owers.
In considering these appointments, the Nomination Committee evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and prepared a description of the role and capabilities required.
External search agencies were engaged and a number of short-listed candidates were then invited to interview with members of the Committee.
Other members of the Board were then given the opportunity of meeting with Ms Edozien and Mrs Owers, following which the Board approved their appointments.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing and recommending the framework and policy for remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior executives, which the Board as a whole is responsible for approving.
The Committee members are Mr Steel Committee Chairman, Professor Arnold, Mr Heale, Mr Lewis, and, with effect from their appointment to the Board on 1 January 2012, Ms Edozien and Mrs Owers.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for evaluating the performance and determining specific remuneration packages for each Executive Director, the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
With the exception of the Non-executive Chairman, the fees of the Non-executive Directors are determined by the Executive Directors.
Further details of the Committees responsibilities and activities during the year are set out in the Report on Directors remuneration on pages 37 to 43.
PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 45 Report on corporate governance continued Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing, on behalf of the Board, the Groups accounting and financial policies and its disclosure practices, internal controls, internal audit and risk management.
It is also responsible for overseeing all matters associated with the appointment, terms, remuneration and performance of the external auditor and for reviewing the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness.
These responsibilities are discharged at the Audit Committee meetings and through regular reports from the internal audit function.
The Audit Committee comprises Professor Arnold Committee Chairman, Mr Heale, Mr Lewis, Mr Steel and, with effect from their appointment to the Board on 1 January 2012, Ms Edozien and Mrs Owers.
The Committee meets regularly with the external auditor.
Professor Arnold, a qualified chartered accountant, brings recent and relevant financial experience to the Audit Committee.
As indicated above, one of the duties of the Audit Committee is to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor.
Various factors are taken into account by the committee in assessing whether to recommend the auditor for reappointment.
These include the quality of the reports provided to the Audit Committee and the Board and the level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups business.
 LLP PwC has been the Groups external auditors since 2007.
In the opinion of the Audit Committee, the relationship with the auditors continues to operate effectively and the Committee remains satisfied with their independence.
To date, the Committee has not considered it necessary for PwC to retender for the audit engagement.
It is, however, a requirement that the audit partner responsible for the audit rotates every five years and accordingly the current lead audit partner, who has been in place since 2007, will rotate at the end of this current audit cycle.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of auditors.
The Group has a policy governing the conduct of non-audit work by the auditor.
The auditor is permitted to provide non-audit services which are not, and are not perceived to be, in conflict with auditor independence, providing it has the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work and is considered to be the most appropriate to undertake such work in the best interests of the Group.
Assignments with a value of 50,000 or more must be submitted to the Committee and activities which may be perceived to be in conflict with the role of the external auditor must be submitted to the Committee for approval prior to engagement, regardless of the amounts involved.
All assignments are monitored by the Committee.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor during the year for audit and other services are set out in note 4 to the financial statements.
Group Risk Committee The Group Risk Committee is responsible for identifying, assessing and prioritising all material risks facing the Group and ensuring, where possible, that appropriate action is taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
The risk areas which the Committee reviews includes general business risk including risk arising out of the external financial environment, product safety risk, physical asset risk including factory, health and safety and environmental risks, IT and infrastructure risks.
At least once a year, the Board as a whole reviews any material risks facing the Group and the output of this review forms the basis of the work undertaken by the Committee during the year.
The Committee is responsible for developing and supporting the activities necessary to convert an approved framework of risk limits and risk appetite policies into an effective plan for implementation across the Group.
This is achieved by ongoing review to develop and implement plans to eliminate, reduce or transfer risk where practicable.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the risk management and control processes within the Group and encouraging and supporting two-way communications of risks both within the business and with external stakeholders including shareholders, suppliers and customers.
The Group Risk Committee comprises Professor Arnold Committee Chairman, Mr Davis, Mr Harvey, Mr Heale, Mr Kanellis, Mr Leigh, Mr Lewis, Mr Pantelireis, Mr Steel and, with effect from their appointment to the Board on 1 January 2012, Ms Edozien and Mrs Owers.
It reports formally to the Board after each meeting.
It has authority to obtain external advice as considered appropriate and the Board has resolved that it should be provided with sufficient resources to undertake fully its responsibilities.
The Board undertakes annually a formal review of the risk management process and the performance of the Group Risk Committee.
CSR Committee The CSR Committee is responsible for reviewing and developing the Companys corporate strategy to ensure that CSR is an integral part of the strategy and that the Groups social, environmental and economic activities are aligned.
The CSR Committee is also responsible for the development of policies on all key areas of CSR including the environment, health and safety, consumer safety, business conduct and ethics, employees and local community and charity.
Further details of the Committees terms of reference and activities during the year are set out in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 20 to 31.
The CSR Committee comprises Mr Heale Committee Chairman, Professor Arnold, Mr Davis, Mr Harvey, Mr Kanellis, Mr Leigh, Mr Lewis, Mr Pantelireis, Mr Steel and, with effect from their appointment to the Board on 1 January 2012, Ms Edozien and Mrs Owers.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the CSR Committee.
The Committee reports formally to the Board after each meeting.
PZ Cussons Plc 46 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Attendance at meetings The number of scheduled meetings of the Board excluding such ad hoc meetings as were necessary during the year to address specific matters arising and of each of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, Group Risk and CSR Committees during the year ended 31 May 2012, together with a record of the attendance of the current Directors who are their respective members, is detailed in the table below: Remuneration Board Audit Committee Committee Nomination Committee Group Risk Committee CSR Committee Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of eligible to meetings eligible to meetings eligible to meetings eligible to meetings eligible to meetings eligible to meetings attend attended attend attended attend attended attend attended attend attended attend attended Mr R Harvey 6 6 n a n a n a n a 2 2 4 4 3 3 Mr G A Kanellis 6 6 n a n a n a n a 2 2 4 4 3 3 Mr C G Davis 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a 4 4 3 3 Mr B H Leigh 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a 4 4 3 3 Mr J Pantelireis 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a 4 4 3 3 Mr D W Lewis 6 6 4 4 5 5 2 2 4 4 3 3 Prof J A Arnold 6 6 4 4 5 5 2 2 4 4 3 3 Ms N Edozien 3 3 2 2 3 3 0 0 2 2 1 1 Mr S J N Heale 6 6 4 4 5 5 2 2 4 4 3 3 Mrs H Owers 3 3 2 2 3 3 0 0 2 2 1 1 Mr J T J Steel 6 6 4 4 5 5 2 2 4 4 3 3 Notes: n a indicates that the Director is not a member of the Committee.
No Director participates in meetings when matters relating to him are being discussed.
Remuneration Details of Directors remuneration are set out in the Report on Directors remuneration.
Business model Information on PZ Cussons business model and strategy for generating and preserving longer-term growth and delivering on the Companys stated objectives is set out in pages 6 to 7 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business review.
The financial position of the Group and liquidity position are described within the Financial review.
In addition, note 18 to the financial statements includes policies in relation to the Groups financial instruments and risk management and policies for managing credit risk, liquidity, market risk, foreign exchange risk, price risk and interest rate risk.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks, that it has been in place for the year ended 31 May 2012 and up to the date of the Annual Report and Accounts, that it is regularly reviewed by the Board and that it accords with the Turnbull guidance for Directors on the Code.
The process includes: frequent communication between the Board and the Group Risk Committee and subsidiary management on all critical business issues: regular visits to operating units by the Board, head office management and internal audit: a detailed system of budgeting, reporting and forecasting: regular review by the Board and Group Risk Committee of risk throughout the Group and the risk management processes in place: and taking necessary action to remedy any significant weaknesses found as part of the review of the effectiveness of the internal control system.
Throughout the year, the Board has carried out assessments of internal control by considering documentation from the Executive Directors, Audit Committee and internal audit function as well as taking into consideration events since the year end.
The internal controls extend to the financial reporting process and the preparation of consolidated accounts.
The basis for the preparation of consolidated accounts is as set out in note 1 to the financial statements.
PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 47 Report on corporate governance continued The Group continues to take steps to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the business and to deal with areas for improvement which come to the attention of management and the Board.
The Group has ethical guidelines and defined fraud reporting and whistleblowing processes which are issued to all employees within the Group.
Relations with shareholders In its financial reporting to shareholders the Board aims to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects.
The Company maintains a corporate website www.
com, containing a wide range of information of interest to institutional and private investors and a subscription e-mail service is available which enables access to Company notifications and news releases.
The Company has periodic discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance.
The Board is also kept informed of investors views through regular discussion of analysts and brokers briefings and investor opinion feedback.
All shareholders, including private investors, have an opportunity to present questions to the Board at the Annual General Meeting and the Directors make themselves available to meet informally with shareholders after the meeting.
General meetings of shareholders The business to be conducted at the Annual General Meeting of the Company is set out in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting which accompanies the Annual Report and Accounts.
Resolutions put before shareholders at the Annual General Meeting will usually include resolutions for the appointment of Directors, approval of the Report on Directors remuneration, declaration of the final dividend and authorisation for the Board to allot and repurchase shares.
Voting at the Annual General Meeting is on a show of hands and after each show of hands, details of all proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution and the number of abstentions are disclosed.
At each Annual General Meeting there is an update on the progress of the business over the last year and also on current trading conditions.
Compliance statement The Directors consider that the Company complied with the provisions of section 1 of the Code with the following exception: Code Provision E. 1.1: The Code specifies that the Senior Independent Director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders to develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director met a limited number of shareholders during the year but shareholders are afforded the opportunity to meet or consult with him at their discretion in the event that they have any questions, comments or concerns and he is available to speak to all shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
PZ Cussons Plc 48 Annual Report & Accounts 2012
