CORPORATE 'OVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT W C. D E, Chairman The Board considers that QineQ has C B The Board considers its oerall size and complied with the proisions of the h Details of the Board of Directors are on composion to be appropriate, haing Corporate Goernance Code the h Code pages 34 and 35.
The Board currently regard in parcular to the independence throughout the last financial year.
The h has eight members: the Non-eecue of character and integrity of all the Directors Code and associated guidance are publicly Chairman: e other Non-eecue and the eperience and skills that they aailable on the Corporate Goernance Directors: and two Eecue Directors bring to their dues, which preents any page of the Financial Reporng Councils the Chief Eecue Ocer CEO and the indiidual or small group from dominang website, www.
This Chief Financial Ocer CFO.
report proides details of the way the The Board has due regard to the benets principles of the h Code hae been applied of diersity including gender diersity when during the year.
2 T B It considers that the skills and eperience B of its indiidual members, parcularly in To demonstrate the highest standards of the areas of h h defence and security, 6 corporate goernance in accordance with the commercialisaon of innoae the h Code to: technologies, corporate finance, mergers and acquisions, and risk management, Ensure the connuing eoluon and Execuve Directors hae been fundamental in the pursuit of implementaon of the Groups strategy Non-execuve Directors QineQs strategic iniaes as described to delier alue to all stakeholders: in the Chief Eecue Ocers statement on E N customers, employees and shareholders: pages 4 to 6 of this report in the past year.
In B Deelop challenging objeces for the addion, the quoted company eperience of Mark Ellio has been the Non-eecue business and monitor management members of the Board in a ariety of industry Chairman of QineQ since 1 March 2010, performance against those goals: sectors and internaonal markets has also haing first joined the Board as a NonProide a framework of eece controls been inaluable to the Group as it seeks to eecue Director on 1 June 2009. to assess and manage risks, with clear consolidate its posion in its core markets epectaons for conduct to the highest A number of changes in the composion and geographic territories.
standards of ethics: of the Non-eecue Directors took place R Proide support and construce during the year.
The Board is responsible for oerseeing challenges to the Chief Eecue Ocer Daid angsta resigned on 18 April 2011, the Eecue Directors management of CEO to promote the Groups success: Admiral Ed Giambasani resigned on operaons and, in this capacity, determines Demonstrate leadership in management 2 August 2011 and ir Daid ees resigned the Groups strategic and inestment systems around health, safety and as Deputy Chairman and enior Independent policies.
It also monitors the performance enironment: Non-eecue Director on 31 January 2012. of the Groups senior management team Manage succession planning for the On 22 Noember 2011, Michael Harper and organises its business to hae regular Board and the Groups eecue joined us as a Non-eecue Director and interacon with key members of the Group.
became the Groups Deputy Chairman and The Directors are responsible for oerseeing enior Independent Director in February the management of the business of the 2012 following ir Daid ees departure.
Group, and their powers are subject to the The Board thanks ir Daid for his dedicaon Arcles of Associaon and any applicable and aluable contribuon to the Board.
36 YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012
