B C & A C P D The Audit Commiee is chaired by Paul in parcular on those maers which had consent of the Audit Commiee as a Murray.
The Board considers him to hae failed to achiee at least a sasfactory whole.
In the last financial year, there hae recent and releant financial eperience, internal audit rang in the year, and on the not been any non-audit serices conducted gien his former roles as Group Finance management plans to address the issues by PMG that eceeded 50,000 in alue.
Director of Carlton Communicaons plc raised by the internal audit funcon.
The Commiee concluded, therefore, that and A MO plc, and through his current there had not been any conict of interest The Commiee undertook goernance role as Audit Commiee Chairman at Royal that might compromise the independence reiews in respect of the eeceness of Mail Holdings plc.
The other members of of PMGs audit work.
the Commiee itself and risk goernance.
the Commiee are Colin Balmer, Admiral The cost and nature of non-audit work The recommendaons from those ir James Burnell-Nugent, Noreen Doyle undertaken by the auditor was regularly reiews are being considered and will be and Michael Harper, all of whom the reiewed by the Commiee during the last progressed by the Commiee Chairman Board considers to be independent.
This process enables the during the current financial year.
angsta and ir Daid ees were also Commiee to take correce acon if it members of the Commiee unl they In addion to the detailed reiews of beliees that there is a risk of the auditors resigned from the Board.
The members the Commiees eeceness and independence being undermined through bring etensie eperience of corporate risk goernance, the Commiee also the award of such work.
It is also QineQs management in senior eecue posions undertook an  policy that no PMG employee may be to the Company.
reiew of the eeceness of the internal appointed into a senior posion within the audit funcon.
Responses to a detailed The Audit Commiee monitors the Groups QineQ Group without the prior approal quesonnaire from a range of stakeholders integrity in financial reporng and reiews of the CFO.
were analysed by Independent the eeceness of the risk management PMG has been the Companys auditor Audit imited who, in reporng to framework.
The members of the Audit the Commiee, made a number of The Audit Commiee meets as necessary Commiee hae declared themseles recommendaons.
An acon plan is now and at least four mes a year.
During the sased with the performance of PMG as being implemented to introduce a number financial year ended 31 March 2012, the the Companys auditor in the last financial of improements, parcularly around Commiee met on e occasions.
A rotaon of PMGs lead audit the interacon with internal audit in the eternal auditor has the right to request partner was last undertaken during 2008.
that a meeng of the Audit Commiee During the year, steps were undertaken The Commiee also reiewed the acies be conened.
During the past financial in conjuncon with PMG for the of the ta, insurance and treasury funcons, year, and in accordance with its terms appointment of a replacement lead audit as well as oerseeing the leel of PMGs of reference, the Commiee met with partner during the 2013 financial year.
QineQs eternal auditor on two separate ancipated that the new lead audit partner occasions, without Eecue Directors will connue in this role for a maimum The Commiee confirms its iew that it present, to discuss the audit process.
has receied sucient, reliable and mely The Commiee also met with the Group informaon from management in the last Internal Audit Manager on the same basis.
financial year to enable it to full its responsibilies.
The CEO, CFO, Director of Group Finance, Group Internal Audit Manager, To safeguard auditor independence and the QNA Internal Audit Manager and a objecity, the Commiee ensures that representae of the eternal auditor any other adisory and or consulng normally aend Audit Commiee meengs.
serices proided by the eternal auditor do not conict with its statutory audit This year the Commiees parcular focus responsibilies and are conducted connued to be on QNA risks, issues and through enrely separate working teams: migang acons, and on an eternally such adisory and or consulng serices facilitated assessment of the eeceness generally only coer regulatory reporng, of goernance arrangements.
ta, and mergers and acquisions work.
Consideraon of the audit process for Any non-audit serices conducted by the the full-year and interim results was an auditor require the consent of the CFO important area of focus for the Audit or the Chairman of the Audit Commiee Commiee.
As part of its reiew of before being iniated: any serices internal controls, the Commiee focused eceeding 50,000 in alue require the YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41
