CORPORATE 'OVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS D E L Y D D D, N C 63 C E O 55 C & O 43 D C S I N A B A B A B D 67 Appointed Non-eecue Chairman Appointed Chief Eecue Ocer Appointed Chief Financial Ocer in March 2010: Non-eecue in Noember 2009. in August 2008.
A B Director between June 2009 and Appointed Non-eecue Director C C February 2010. in Noember 2011.
Appointed Member of the Compliance Member of the Compliance Deputy Chairman and enior C Commiee, Nominaons Commiee and ecurity Independent Non-eecue Chairman of the Nominaons Commiee and ecurity Commiee.
Commiee: Member of the Commiee.
S Compliance Commiee and C S Daid was preiously deputy Chief Remuneraon Commiee.
Member of the Audit Commiee, eo was Chief Eecue Ocer Financial Ocer of ogica plc.
He Compliance Commiee, S of fide a Rue plc between 2005 was also Chief Financial Ocer Nominaons Commiee, Mark is a Non-eecue Director and 2009.
He was preiously Chief of ogicas internaonal diision, Remuneraon Commiee of Reed Elseier Group plc and is Operang Ocer of Inensys plcs coering operaons in North and ecurity Commiee.
also Chairman of its Remuneraon Producon Management Diision America, Australia, the Middle Commiee, Reed Elseier NV and before that spent 16 years with East and Asia and, before that, was S and G4 plc.
He was preiously Honeywell Inc. in a ariety of senior the Group Financial Controller.
Michael was appointed Chairman General Manager of IBM Europe, management roles in the h A, His earlier eperience includes of BBA Aiaon plc in June 2007, Middle East and Africa and sat on Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
arious roles with CMG plc, Rio haing joined the Board in February IBMs Worldwide Management He was formerly a Non-eecue Tinto plc and Price Waterhouse.
He is also Chairman of the Council.
The Board considers that Director of Tomkins plc.
He is a member of the Instute of Vitec Group plc and of Ricardo plc.
Marks etensie eperience in the Chartered Accountants in England He was preiously a Director of technology serices sector, in the & Wales.
Williams plc where, at the me of h and Europe, together with his the demerger in 2000, he became eposure to a ariety of industry Chairman of idde plc.
The Board sectors on the boards of FT E listed considers that Michaels wealth companies, is a aluable asset to the of operaonal and corporate Group in terms of leadership and of eperience will enable him to addressing the strategic issues that make a significant contribuon aect the Group.
34 YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012
