Corporate governance report Randgold Resources Limited is incorporated in Jersey, Channel Islands.
The company applies the United Kingdoms Corporate Governance Code.
The company has been in compliance with the United Kingdoms Corporate Governance Code June 2010 throughout the year.
Details of the remuneration paid by the company to members of the board are contained in the remuneration report, and can be found on pages 144 and 145 of this annual report.
In addition, the audit committee report and the governance and nomination committee report can be found on pages 120 and 150 respectively of this annual report.
The board acknowledges that to continue to be a successful world class gold mining company it must be led by an effective board, with appropriate skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the activities of the company and its industry and environment.
The board has previously adopted a board charter in accordance with the United Kingdoms Corporate Governance Code which clearly sets out its duties as a board and includes the duties of the chairman, the chief executive officer and the senior independent director.
The board reviewed its board charter at its January 2013 board meeting and determined no amendments were necessary.
A copy of the board charter is available on the companys website www.
A copy of the United Kingdoms Corporate Governance Code is also available on the companys website.
Details of the companys share capital are set out in note 5 of the financial statements of this annual report and details of key shareholders are provided on page 196 of this annual report.
There are no special rights attached to the companys shares or restrictions on voting rights.
Details relating to the powers of directors in respect of share capital are set out in the notice of annual general meeting AGM 2013.
Board meeting attendance Number of board meetings Director Designation attended P Litard Non-executive chairman 5 5 DM Bristow Chief executive officer 5 5 GP Shuttleworth Chief financial officer 5 5 NP Cole Jr Senior independent director 5 5 CL Coleman Independent non-executive director 5 5 K Dagdelen Independent non-executive director 5 5 RI Israel Non-executive director 1 1 J Mabunda Lioko Independent non-executive director - AJ Quinn Independent non-executive director 5 5 K Voltaire Independent non-executive director 5 5 Mr RI Israel did not stand for re-election to the board at the 2012 AGM of the company and stepped down as a non-executive director of the company on 30 April 2012.
Mrs J Mabunda Lioko was appointed to the board on 28 January 2013.
114 Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources | Management provides the board, ahead of each quarterly Corporate governance board meeting, with a detailed quarterly brieng pack which The measures taken by the company to satisfy the requirements covers an overview of the company and group, and includes of the United Kingdoms Corporate Governance Code are set reports from each mine, major project and activity along with out in this report with the headings below based on the United sections covering health and safety, financial, legal, technical, Kingdoms Corporate Governance Codes Key Principles.
human resources, treasury, tax, environmental, sustainability and communication activities.
Every company should be headed by an effective board which is collectively responsible for the long term success During the year, the board met four times in person and once of the company.
Board meetings typically take The board remains committed to guiding the strategic place over a two day period with the first day allocated to the development of the group and supports the principle of board committee meetings and the second day is allocated for collective responsibility for the success of the company.
The intervening evening allows the board to engage in informal discussions concerning the activities of The board has reserved for its sole discretion: the nalisation the group.
and adoption of the groups strategic plan: the approval of the annual operating budget, and monitoring performance against The August 2012 board meeting, which took place over four budget: the approval of interim and final financial statements: days, enabled board members to visit the Loulo mine complex, the dividend policy: the approval of any significant change in including the Gounkoto mine, and to attend the Gounkoto the accounting policies and practices: scal policies including mines opening ceremony which was performed by the Malian treasury and hedging policies: approval of all financial, legal, Minister of Economy.
At the August 2012 board meeting, social, environmental and ethical controls of the company to Mr Toure, the Minister of Commerce, Mines and Industry of ensure the appropriate compliance procedures are in place: Mali, and Gnral Maga, the Governor of the Kayes Region, significant mergers and acquisitions and other material Mali, were invited to attend part of the boards meeting.
In transactions: approval of all mining developments: new issues January 2013, the board paid its third visit over three days to of long term debt: capital issues and material changes to the the Kibali mine where it saw the significant progress made companys capital structure: remuneration of executive directors at the site since its last visit.
The board was also given an and senior managers: nominating candidates for election by the opportunity to discuss the mines progress and the progress general meeting of shareholders to membership of the board: with the mines relocation action programme with the approval of all circulars, prospectuses and listing particulars: mines employees, contractors and consultants.
approval of the annual report and accounts, including the directors remuneration report, audit committee report, report of The boards evaluation session, which was undertaken by the the governance and nomination committee and the corporate chairman, took place at its November 2012 meeting.
Details of governance report: and the approval of the annual report on attendance at the board meetings are tabled on the previous the Form 20-F as required by the United States Securities page.
The last use of an external facilitator to assist with Exchange Commission SEC.
evaluation of the board occurred in January 2012.
In order to facilitate its supervision of the company and the group, Over the course of a typical two day period when the board the board has established three board committees: the audit holds its committee and board meetings, the non-executive committee, the remuneration committee and the governance and directors regularly meet without the executive directors being nomination committee.
Details of the terms of reference of each present.
The chairman intends to preside over the next session committee and the members of each committee are available on of the non-executive directors at the boards April 2013 meeting the companys website www.
The which is to be held in Jersey.
members of the committees are also set out on page 199 of this annual report.
Over the course of the year the company reviewed its insurance policies.
Following that review, the company is comfortable The day to day management of the company is delegated to the with the appropriateness of its directors and ofcers insurance chief executive officer CEO.
An executive committee has been established by the CEO and membership of that committee is which it has in place.
made up of the CEO as the chairman, the chief financial officer CFO and senior executives of the company who include the There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the company between the running of the board and chief operating officer for West Africa, the chief operating officer the executive responsibility for the running of the companys for Central and East Africa, and the general managers of each of the companys operations.
In addition, the CEO chairs the business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers companys environmental committee, details of which can be of decision.
found in the sustainability report on pages 73 to 112 of this In accordance with clearly dened parameters, the chairman annual report.
is responsible for the leadership of the board and for ensuring Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 115 | Corporate governance continued effective communication exists between the executive and nonThe company has had a senior independent director since executive directors.
October 2003, and continues to do so.
Mr NP Cole Jr has served in this role since May 2009.
He continues The CEO has been delegated the authority to manage the day to make himself available to shareholders should they to day administration of the group.
A formal job description is wish to contact him.
During the fourth quarter of 2012, in existence and this together with the CEOs role and duties Mr NP Cole Jr in his capacity as chairman of the remuneration as detailed in the board charter, are reviewed annually by the committee along with Mr CL Coleman in his capacity as a board and by the CEO.
member of the remuneration committee had several meetings with representatives of the companys major investors, The board charter which is available on the companys website shareholders and various voting guidance services.
com, clearly sets out those powers which are reserved solely for its discretion and consideration, The non-executive directors under the leadership of the while listing separately those issues for which the CEO would chairman have continued to meet in session without the be accountable and be monitored.
The non-executive directors also meet without the presence of the chairman.
In addition, The chairman is responsible for the leadership of the board the audit committee has likewise met with the companys and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
external audit partner without the presence of either the CFO The chairman, in conjunction with the CEO and the company or CEO and it has also met the companys internal auditor on secretary, sets the agenda of each meeting and ensures several occasions.
throughout the year that sufficient time is provided for discussion regarding key strategic issues.
The usual practice of the board The board and its committees should have the appropriate and committee meetings taking place over two days on each balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge occasion the board meets in person allows for active debate of the company to enable them to discharge their respective among all members of the board.
The board comprises nine members, two executive and seven As required under the United Kingdoms Corporate Governance non-executive directors.
The governance and nomination Code, at the time of his appointment as chairman in November 2004, Mr P Litard met and continues to meet the requirement committee continues to be charged with the duty of identifying of independence.
the needs of the board regarding suitable candidates.
Mr P Litard continues to act as chairman of the governance and As part of their role as members of a unitary board, nonnomination committee.
The committee continues to consider executive directors should constructively challenge and the optimal balance of skills as well as an appropriate gender help develop proposals on strategy.
In addition to possessing An atmosphere of open debate exists at the companys board the expertise required for the strategic direction of a major meetings, allowing for any single director to engage executive international mining company, as well as having sufficient time management on key aspects of policy and performance.
to commit to their responsibilities including eld visits to the operations, candidates are expected to combine a strongly The non-executive directors believe that the format of the board, independent perspective and demonstrate sound judgement in conjunction with activities of the three board committees, is with the ability to share a cohesive vision of the companys sufficient to allow them to effectively access the performance future.
of management in achieving set goals and objectives.
The members of the audit committee believe that their discussions, In accordance with the companys Articles of Association under the direction of the audit committee terms of reference, articles, as a newly appointed director, Mrs J Mabunda Lioko will provide assurance regarding the integrity of the financial stand for re-election to the board at the AGM of the company on information and that the financial controls and the systems of 29 April 2013.
Details of Mrs J Mabunda Liokos qualications risk management are both robust and defensible.
Likewise the and experience can be found on page 5 of this annual report.
remuneration committee, comprising three independent nonexecutive directors, has actively been involved in determination The board believes that mining is a long gestation business and, of the levels of remuneration for the executive directors.
as such justifies a longer period of service for non-executive The governance and nomination committee has continued directors than many other industries and that reasonable its involvement with regards to succession planning and periods of service are therefore needed for the stability of the gender diversity and has been active in the appointment of board but that new appointments are needed from time to time Mrs J Mabunda Lioko to the board.
Besides the chairman and the CEO, the remainder of the board have served for periods of seven Issues relating to financial performance of the company and the years or less.
Other than the two executive directors, no other group are addressed both by the audit committee and at the main board meetings.
director serves on any of the groups subsidiary boards.
Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 116 | No director serves as a representative of a significant Please refer to the report of the governance and nomination shareholder of the company.
committee, which can be found on pages 150 to 152 of this annual report.
The board monitors compliance with the independence of All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to character, judgement and relationships criteria included in the the company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
United Kingdoms Corporate Governance Code and considers The board believes that all its members have sufficient time all the non-executive directors to be in compliance with these to devote to the company.
Details of any candidates existing provisions as well as to be independent.
All the directors and board commitments are disclosed at the time of consideration their biographies are set out on pages 4 and 5 of this annual of their respective appointment and the board does not believe report.
that any other board commitments adversely affect any board members contribution to the company.
No current director, Mr RI Israel served as a director with the company for over whether executive or non-executive, is a director of another 15 years.
He retired from the board of directors at the conclusion FTSE 100 company.
of the AGM of the company on 30 April 2012.
During 2012 and prior to his retirement, the board considered Mr RI Israels All directors should receive induction on joining the objectivity and contribution and concluded that he was still board and should regularly update and refresh their skills independent in character and judgement notwithstanding his and knowledge.
The board continues to operate in a eld which is technically complex and directors are provided with induction materials, The company continually evaluates the composition of the including information in relation to environmental, social board and the boards succession plans.
Given the length and governance issues, which enable them to full their of service of the chairman since his initial appointment to the duties effectively.
Visits to the mines, branch ofces and board, succession of the chairmans position is periodically technical presentations provided by management are used evaluated to ensure the chairman continues to bring objectivity to further their knowledge in various areas of specialisation.
and independent judgement to the role and a plan is in place To assist with Mrs J Mabunda Liokos induction, she visited for his succession.
the Kibali mine on her appointment to the board where she was given a full tour of the site and met with a number of The companys policy of awarding ordinary shares in the Kibali employees including the mine manager and his team.
company to the non-executive directors was varied in 2012.
A comprehensive pack of corporate induction materials, including a memorandum of the role and responsibility of a Instead of each non-executive director receiving an award of director prepared by the companys general counsel and ordinary shares in the company vesting in equal proportions company secretary, were shared with Mrs J Mabunda Lioko over a three year period, each non-executive director now to assist with her induction.
Mrs J Mabunda Lioko and receives, subject to approval of the companys shareholders Dr K Dagdelen intend to also attend a series of corporate at the companys AGM, a grant of 1 200 ordinary shares in governance training sessions in April 2013 conducted by the the company with immediate vesting.
This new policy was companys Jersey, English and United States lawyers.
introduced during feedback received by the remuneration committee following their annual investor meetings with As in previous years, Dr K Dagdelen and his team from the stakeholders.
Accordingly, the directors are considered to Colorado School of Mines worked closely with the companys remain independent.
exploration and mineral resources departments to facilitate mine optimisation and geological knowledge.
During the year, Details of the non-executive directors shareholding in the Dr K Dagdelen and Mr AJ Quinn visited the Loulo and Gounkoto company are provided on page 146 of this annual report.
mines and the Kibali mine to review the mines development in advance of the board and committee meetings held there in Disclosures in respect of all related party transactions are August 2012 and January 2013, respectively.
included in note 23 of the annual financial statements of this annual report.
As set out on pages 131 to 149 of this annual report, the members of the remuneration committee have continued to The companys policy is for directors to disclose their interests liaise closely with consultants Towers Watson and English pursuant to the Companies Jersey Law 1991 when they are lawyers Ashurst, with regard to executive and non-executive appointed to the board and at each subsequent board meeting.
The company maintains a register of directors interests at the companys registered ofce.
No such interests are considered The board should be supplied in a timely manner with to impinge on their independence.
information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent Under the guidance of the chairman, it is the duty of the procedure for the appointment of new directors to company secretary to ensure an effective ow of information the board.
between the board, its committees and the management of the Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 117 | Corporate governance continued company.
The information sharing process utilises a secure The board is responsible for determining the nature and online platform to allow the board to access all current and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving historical board and committee brieng packs as well as key its strategic objectives.
The board should maintain sound risk management and internal control systems.
The board and committee brieng Please refer to the sections headed control environment and packs cover such areas as health and safety, financial, legal, risk management, which can be found on pages 123 to 129 of technical, treasury, tax, human resources, environmental, this annual report.
sustainability and communications in respect of the operations and the company as a whole.
The company secretary ensures Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, that the board is appraised on all governance matters.
retain and motivate directors of the quality required to run the company successfully, but a company should avoid The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual paying more than necessary for this purpose.
A significant evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees proportion of executive directors remuneration should be and individual directors.
structured so as to link rewards to corporate and individual Please refer to the report of governance and nomination performance.
committee, which is set out on pages 150 to 152 of this annual Please refer to the remuneration report, which can be found on report.
pages 131 to 149 of this annual report.
The board undertook an evaluation session at its November There should be a formal and transparent procedure board meeting chaired by the chairman.
The process started for developing policy on executive remuneration and for with each director completing a detailed questionnaire followed xing the remuneration packages for individual directors.
by a round table rigorous discussion on the questionnaires No director should be involved in deciding his or her own results and the boards, the boards committees and that of remuneration.
Accordingly no Please refer to the remuneration report, which can be found on areas of weakness in any individual directors performance pages 131 to 149 of this annual report.
The board is therefore recommending to shareholders that they vote in favour of the re-election of each The board should present a balanced and understandable director proposed in the notice of AGM 2013. assessment of the companys position and prospects.
Please refer to the financial statements, which can be found on The board continues to believe that its annual evaluation pages 153 to 191 of this annual report, together with the chief exercise is beneficial.
executives review and financial review on pages 6 to 11 of this annual report.
A formal session of the non-executive directors under the The board should establish formal and transparent leadership of the senior independent director also assessed the arrangements for considering how they should apply the chairmans performance.
The findings of that session confirmed corporate reporting and risk management and internal the chairman continues to provide strong leadership to the control principles and for maintaining an appropriate board and to the board committees in which he participates.
relationship with the companys auditors.
This is dealt with in the audit committee report on pages 120 to All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular 130 of this annual report.
The companys audit committee has intervals, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
been set up to review the company financial reports, internal At its meeting in November 2010, the board agreed, in control principles and risk management systems, review accordance with the provision of the United Kingdoms significant financial reporting judgements and for dealing with Corporate Governance Code, that all directors would stand for the appointment of the auditors and monitoring their relationship re-election annually.
Any newly appointed director is subject to with the company and its management.
election by shareholders after his her appointment.
The articles do not specify either an age limit for directors or any restriction A copy the of audit committees terms of reference is available about the period of service.
At the 2012 AGM, all directors on the companys website www.
other than Mrs J Mabunda Lioko who was appointed to the board in January 2013 stood for re-election.
All directors, There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the including Mrs J Mbunda Lioko, will stand for re-election at the mutual understanding of objectives.
Biographies of the directors can be found on pages has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue 4 and 5 of this annual report.
The board acknowledges responsibility for maintaining effective Copies of the letters of appointment of the non-executive communication with all shareholders.
The CEO, corporate directors are available for inspection at the companys registered communications manager and the companys investor relations ofce and at each AGM of the company.
consultants prepare a quarterly report for the board detailing Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 118 | the activities and presentations given to shareholders.
In held a series of meetings with major shareholders and voting addition, since September 2004 the company has employed guidance services to discuss the proposed changes to the international market intelligence experts to provide a global companys remuneration policies.
Various suggestions made shareholder identication service which has greatly enhanced by shareholders were taken on board and these were reected the focus of the companys communication message.
in the final documents tabled for shareholder consideration at the 2013 AGM.
While general corporate communication with shareholders is conducted by the CEO, the chairman, at least quarterly, Investor forums attended 2012 participates in an open forum with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Location Forum Q Cape Town, SA Mining Indaba Besides attendance at various industry conferences, a minimum Q Dakar, Senegal Senegalese Mining Conference and of two roadshows during the year are undertaken to enable Exhibition company representatives to interact directly with shareholders Q Denver, USA Denver Gold Forum and interested parties.
Q Hollywood Florida, BMO Capital Markets Global Metals USA and Mining It has been the policy of the company that twice a year extensive Q Kinshasa, DRC Infrastructure Partnerships for roadshows are conducted by the CEO, accompanied by various African Development IPAD members of senior management, where meetings are held with Q London, UK Deutsche BRICS Metals and Mining most of the companys major institutional shareholders to brief Conference them on the activities of the company.
In addition, after the Q RBC Capital Markets Gold publication of each set of quarterly results the chairman and Conference the CEO follow up with a conference call available for interested Q Mines and Money shareholders, investors and international media, and conduct Q Randgold Investor Day meetings with many of the institutional shareholders.
The Q Miami, USA Bank of America Merrill Lynch roadshows are in addition to the companys attendance at Metals and Mining Conference several key international mining and investment conferences Q New York, USA Hard Assets Investment Conference around the world.
In November and December 2012, Randgold Q Paulson Conference held its first investor days in New York, Toronto and London.
Q Randgold Investor Day The investor days proved to be a successful new platform for Q San Francisco, USA Hard Assets Investment Conference Randgold to engage with analysts, shareholders and other Q Toronto, Canada PDAC members of the investment community.
The events were very Q Randgold Investor Day well attended and comprised detailed presentations by many of the companys senior management.
In light of the positive feedback received from the participants, the company has The board should use the AGM to communicate with decided that these forums should become a regular feature in investors and to encourage their participation.
Randgolds investor communication programme, with a view to The board believes that the AGM continues to be an appropriate holding them every two years.
forum for contact with shareholders and encourages their attendance and participation.
In terms of the articles, Article Where possible, the CEO asks non-executive directors to join 19.10 provides that, for so long as the shares of the company him at presentations made to shareholders and institutional are admitted for trading on the London Stock Exchange or the investors.
During their visits to Loulo, Gounkoto and Kibali respectively, the board had the opportunity to interact with fund NASDAQ Stock Exchange, at any general meeting all resolutions managers who were then touring the companys operations.
put to the meeting shall be decided on a poll.
The number of In addition, the chairman attended the 2012 and 2013 Mining proxies received is disclosed to members in attendance at each Indaba Conferences in Cape Town, having the opportunity to AGM.
At each AGM, all committee chairmen as well as other interact with various investors and fund managers in attendance.
non-executive directors are present to address any queries raised by shareholders.
Results of the AGM are published on The board continues to use the internet for publication of the day of the meeting to inform shareholders not present of the announcements and to le these on the companys website to results of the voting.
assist with communication with shareholders.
In addition, the board encourages shareholders to access the annual report Institutional shareholders have a responsibility to make from the website.
The structure and accessibility of our website considered use of their votes.
The company is pleased to see is regularly monitored through a process of internal and external the increasing trend of institutional shareholders now exercising reviews.
their rights to vote at general meetings.
In the past three years the percentage of shareholders present and voting has In November 2012, ahead of the publication of the annual report, certain members of the remuneration committee steadily increased.
