Our governance of sustainability risks As with any other area of our business, we aim to ensure operational managers, group sustainability manager and site that sustainability issues are managed at operational level general managers.
by senior people with appropriate skills and experience, Product responsibility and that there is effective board oversight to test strategic Apart from a small percentage sold through the Malian direction, monitor performance and ensure our policies company, Kankou Moussa SARL, all of our gold is sold to remain appropriate to the business.
Rand Renery Pty Limited Rand Renery, which has an  reputation for integrity and ethics.
Our sustainability policies are designed to align with relevant Rand Renery is able to certify that its entire chain of custody international standards and protocols.
In particular, the 10 is responsible and conict free, and this certication is sustainable development principles of the International Council independently audited.
It is also a member of the World Gold on Mining and Metals, World Bank Operational Guidelines, Council and the Responsible Jewellery Council.
This gives us IFC Performance Standards on Environmental and Social assurance that the onward distribution of our gold, proceeds Sustainability, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation in a responsible way.
and Development OECD Convention on Combating Bribery, Our process to identify sustainability risks the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights and We have robust and practical internal processes to ensure the Conict-Free Gold Standard.
In 2012, we completed that all material and emerging sustainability risks are our second year of reporting in accordance with the Global identied, that controls are put in place to mitigate those risks, Reporting Initiative GRI and have produced a separate selfand to ensure that the controls themselves are monitored to declared B application level report, up from a C level in maintain adequacy, effectiveness and appropriateness.
This is indicative of our commitment to improving our sustainability management systems and transparency.
Potential sustainability risks are assessed at an annual executive committee workshop, reviewed by the board, and priorities are The company has established an environmental and social determined based on frequency, consequence and mitigation oversight committee which is responsible for identifying and potential.
This company-led process is complemented by an informal stakeholder engagement process which asks eight managing strategic sustainability risks and opportunities.
groups of stakeholders for their input and assessments see This committee tables its quarterly reports for review at page 81.
Throughout the year, the sustainability risks and the group board of directors meetings.
The committee is mitigation strategies identied by the board and our stakeholder chaired by the CEO and includes our group executive for engagement process are managed by the environmental sustainability, the chief operating ofcers, group projects and social oversight committee and our general manager for and process executive and the general managers of each sustainability.
Sustainability KPIs are reviewed weekly by the group executive committee, and at operational level, we have Our material risks and issues dedicated site-level managers for both sustainability and Sustainability issues are considered material if they present health and safety to ensure effective implementation of the an opportunity for significant cost savings for the company, if they are vulnerable to potential changes in relevant national boards policies on a day-to-day basis.
legislation or international agreements, if they are raised by the majority of stakeholders or if they are considered to be a For all Randgold staff and contractors, the standards of future challenge for the mining sector as a whole.
behaviour that we expect in relation to sustainability issues are clearly dened in our code of conduct and corporate Sustainability issues generate a constantly changing and human rights policy, all publicly available and included complex set of risks for our company to manage.
Factors of on the companys website at www.
geography, climate, political upheaval and timeframe mean com.
These form a central part of induction training for all the material importance of different sustainability issues to employees and contravention leads to automatic disciplinary Randgold is uid and variable.
However, the list below written in no given order, offers five sustainability risks commonly action, which can include the termination of employment.
identied as material to Randgold by both our internal risk We have zero tolerance for corruption and we do not offer, management process and by stakeholders.
pay or accept bribes of any form.
Q Failure to gain community support: Our mines cannot function unless we secure and retain the support of the Remuneration communities in which we operate.
A failure to meet Where appropriate, we build sustainability outcomes into community expectations around social, health, cultural the remuneration of senior management.
For example, a or environmental impacts, or inappropriate levels of portion of our CEOs and CFOs annual bonus payments are engagement, can have a detrimental effect on production dependent on achieving a 10% reduction in the LTIFR year and undermine the vast opportunities that local communities on year.
The achievement of safety and sustainability targets potentially offer to our mines in terms of human capital, local also inuence the remuneration packages of our regional knowledge, security and stability.
80 Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources | Q Q Water management: Depending on the context, water Failure to provide a safe workplace: As a peoplescarcity or ooding can have severe implications for centred company, safety is a key business risk and we Randgolds operations.
In the Sahel region where droughts are committed to providing the safest possible working can occur, sufficient water is essential to mining and mineral environment for our employees and progressing towards processing and to generating power through hydro-electric our target of zero lost-time injuries and zero fatalities.
In contrast, the DRC can experience intense rainfall Q Changing national expectations: The mining sector in and ooding, which can disrupt mining activities and supply Africa needs to ensure it fulls its duty to mine responsibly routes and increase safety risks.
and to share the benets of its activities fairly between Q Access to reliable and affordable energy: Randgolds shareholders, national entities, communities and service mining, construction and exploration activities are energy providers, both local and international.
It also needs intensive, and generally rely on diesel for the generation to show that it can protect the environment and leave a of electricity and transport.
The cost and supply of diesel positive legacy once mines close.
A failure by the sector power poses a clear material risk.
Improving the efficiency as a whole to meet these expectations is likely to lead to with which we use energy and increasingly using renewables increasing calls for punitive regulation or the nationalisation in particular hydro should enable us to reduce our costs of mining assets to the detriment of both the public and while also signicantly reducing our carbon footprint.
The new high school built by Kibali Goldmines.
