Audit committee report for the year ended 31 December 2012 The audit committees function is to support the board in fullling its oversight responsibilities.
The audit committee monitors the decisions and processes designed to ensure the integrity of financial and corporate reporting and ensures that robust systems of internal control and risk management are in place and adhered to.
The audit committees duties, roles and responsibilities include the following: Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and formal announcements relating to the groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial and other reporting judgements.
Q Reviewing the accounting principles, policies and practices which have been adopted by the group in the preparation of the annual financial statements, financial reporting issues and disclosures in the financial reports.
Q Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the groups internal control and risk management systems, including reviewing the process for identifying, assessing and reporting key risks and control activities.
Q Approving the internal audit plan and reviewing regular reports from the head of internal audit on the effectiveness of the internal control system.
Q Making recommendations to the board on the appointment, re-appointment or change of the groups external auditors and approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the groups external auditors.
Q Overseeing the boards relationship with the external auditors and ensuring the groups external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process is monitored and reviewed.
Q Developing, implementing and maintaining a policy on the engagement of the groups external auditors supply of non-audit services.
Q Reporting to the board any matters which have been identied that the committee consider need to be considered, actioned or improved upon.
Q Monitoring the groups compliance with legal and regulatory requirements including ensuring that effective procedures are in place relating to the groups whistle-blowing and anti-corruption policies.
Karl Voltaire Chairman, audit committee Audit committee attendance Number of Members Appointed meetings attended Q K Voltaire Chairman 1 August 2006 6 6 Q CL Coleman 11 May 2009 6 6 Q AJ Quinn 1 November 2011 6 6 Each of the three members of the audit committee is an independent non-executive director.
The audit committee oversees the groups financial reporting and internal controls and provides a formal link with the groups external auditors.
It performs its duties by maintaining effective working relationships with the board, management, internal and external auditors.
The audit committee met six times during the year to discharge its duties and responsibilities.
Attendance of members of the audit committee during 2012 is shown in the table above.
The board considers all members of the audit committee to be independent for the reasons set out in the corporate governance report.
In terms of the directors remuneration policy, for providing services to the audit committee for the year, Mr CL Coleman was paid US$35 000, Mr A Quinn was paid US$35 000 and Dr K Voltaire, as chairman of the audit committee, was paid US$50 000.
