Industrial relations Our policies All our countries of operation are strongly unionised and have frameworks complement national labour laws and set out the the right to freedom of association enshrined in law.
However, way each mine and union works in relation to detailed items it is not just because of the legal obligation that we encourage such as salary increments or the parameters of acceptable the role of unions at our mines: work stoppages on a typical behaviour in a strike situation.
operation could cost as much as US$1 million per day in lost revenue and we see unions as an important part of building Our performance good relations with our workforce.
We continued to have strong and friendly relations with all our union partners throughout the year, concluding 2012 with Our policy is to be fully transparent and engaged with our the signing of the latest mine level agreements at Tongon unions, and we hold meetings between mine management in December.
and union representatives at least once a month at all mine sites.
Union representatives are also present in quarterly There were three strikes at Randgold operations in 2012, although board meetings and privy to all the mine boards decisions none of these was related directly to Randgolds relationship with its and information.
In addition to constant engagement with permanent staff.
At Loulo, our mining contractor experienced six the unions we also regularly communicate directly with the days stoppage due to internal grievances within its workforce.
This workforce through initiatives such as the general manager did not, however, affect production as the Loulo employees didnt weekly safety meetings and the twice yearly mass meetings join the strike due to the good relations with mine management.
held by the CEO with the general staff.
There was also a wildcat strike by a sub-contractor at Loulo in April 2012, due to the dismissal of a co-worker, but this did not lead to Mine level agreements are the basis of our industrial relations any loss of productivity.
Finally, there was a week-long stoppage policy.
These are internal collective agreements signed with at Tongon earlier in the year, which was due to a national strike in the unions at each mine and reviewed every three years.
