DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE financial performance, annual budgets and business plans: Governance statement The board is committed to ensuring that the Group is well major capital expenditure, acquisitions and divestments: managed and that rigorous and transparent procedures allow annual and half-year financial results and interim this to happen.
The principal governance rules applying to UK companies management statements: listed on the London Stock Exchange are contained in The board committees and their terms of reference: UK Corporate Governance Code, revised by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 the Code.
This report also internal controls and risk management: includes the information that is required by the Financial responsible gambling and ethical behaviour: Services Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules DTR to be contained in the Companys annual report.
sound governance, health and safety, and Save in relation to Code provision A.
2.1 roles of chairman environmental policies: and chief executive not to be exercised by the same individual, the board confirms that it has complied with the provisions of board and company secretary appointments: the Code throughout the 18-month period ended 30 June 2012. senior management structure, remuneration Please see page 61 for an explanation as to why the board has and succession: and not complied with Code provision A.
This statement explains how we have applied the investor relations.
principles of the Code, our governance policies and practices and how we run the business for the benefit of shareholders.
Specic responsibilities are delegated to our four board committees audit, remuneration, nominations and finance.
They report to the board and operate within dened terms Code main principles of reference, which can be obtained from our website at www.
jsp or by writing to the Leadership company secretary.
The role of the board Board meetings Board composition Board meetings allow for regular and frank discussion of As at the date of this report, the board consists of: strategy, trading, financial performance and risk management.
a senior independent director: There were 12 scheduled meetings during the period under six further independent non-executive directors: and review: a further six meetings to discuss specic issues and a further 18 meetings of the independent members of the board two executive directors the executive chairman and to consider matters arising from the general offer for Rank chief executive and the finance director.
made by its now majority shareholder, Guoco Group Limited Guoco.
Two meetings during the period under review were The names and biographies of all directors are published devoted entirely to strategy.
During the period under review, the boards committees Key board responsibilities also met regularly to discharge their duties.
The board is responsible for: In exceptional circumstances when a director is unable to Group strategy, objectives and policies: attend a meeting, his comments on brieng papers are given in advance to the relevant chairman.
general and long-term progress within the political, economic, environmental and social setting of the day: The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 59 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The directors attendance at board and committees meetings during the period under review is recorded in the table below.
It shows the number of meetings attended by each director compared with the number of meetings that director was eligible to attend.
Full Independent Audit Remuneration Nominations Finance board board committee committee committee committee Current directors Ian Burke 18 18 14 14 n a n a 5 5 16 16 Colin Child 7 8 n a 2 2 n a n a 7 7 Richard Greenhalgh 17 18 18 18 2 2 8 8 5 5 n a Clive Jennings 13 14 n a n a n a n a 8 8 Sir Richard Needham 3 4 n a n a n a n a n a Owen ODonnell 18 18 18 18 4 4 8 8 n a n a Tim Scoble 18 18 n a n a 3 3 1 1 7 7 Bill Shannon 17 18 18 18 3 4 8 8 4 5 n a John Warren 18 18 17 18 4 4 8 8 5 5 n a Former directors Paddy Gallagher 4 4 14 14 n a n a n a 8 8 Peter Johnson 4 4 18 18 n a n a 2 2 8 8 Mike Smith 1 3 n a n a n a n a n a Notes 1 Mr Burke resigned from the board on 28 June 2011 and was reappointed on 3 July 2011.
2 Mr Child was appointed to the board and the audit committee with effect from 1 January 2012.
3 Mr Greenhalgh stepped down from the audit committee with effect from 1 January 2012.
4 Mr Jennings was appointed to the board with effect from 27 July 2011.
5 Sir Richard was appointed to the board with effect from 1 May 2012.
6 Mr Scoble was an appointee of Guoco and was therefore not eligible to attend any of the independent board meetings.
He was appointed to the remuneration, nominations and finance committees with effect from 14 September 2011.
He was not eligible to attend one nominations committee meeting as it related to his re-appointment following him ceasing to be an appointee of Guoco with effect from 30 April 2012 and becoming independent with effect from that date.
7 Mr Shannon was not eligible to attend one nominations committee meeting as it related to his re-appointment.
8 Mr Gallagher resigned from the board on 28 June 2011.
9 Mr Johnson resigned from the board with effect from 15 July 2011.
10 Mr Smith was an appointee of Guoco and was therefore not eligible to attend any of the independent board meetings.
He resigned from the board with effect from 30 April 2011.
Insurance and indemnity Division of responsibilities The Company has arranged insurance cover and indemnity Since 15 July 2011 the Companys chief executive has also in respect of legal action against its directors to the extent assumed the role of executive chairman.
Following the conclusion of Guocos general offer for Rank, Directors insurance and indemnity do not provide the Company retained its listing on the London Stock Exchange cover in situations where a director has acted fraudulently in relatively unusual circumstances in that it was with a 74.51% or dishonestly.
Given this unusual situation, the board was of the Conicts of interest view that it was important for there to be a clear line of The directors have a statutory duty to avoid conicts of interest.
communication between the Company and its majority In accordance with our articles of association, we have adopted shareholder and that this would be for the benefit of all a policy and procedure for managing and, if appropriate, shareholders.
The board was of the view that this would authorising actual or potential conicts of interest.
be best achieved by combining the role of chairman and Directors are required to disclose any other new chief executive.
appointments before agreeing to take them on, so that any The board agreed that it would keep under regular review conicts of interest can be identied and addressed.
the impact and wider implications of one individual assuming During the period under review, two non-executive the combined chair and chief executive role.
directors took on positions with external organisations and no The following key changes have taken place consequent conicts of interest in relation thereto have been identied.
upon Mr Burke assuming the combined chair and chief The board also assesses conicts of interest before making executive role: any new appointments.
The Companys conicts of interest procedure was used during the period under review when Guoco announced its general offer for Rank on 6 May 2011 and proved to be sufciently robust in dealing with the conicts that arose in relation to the presence of Messrs Scoble and Smith on the board.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 60 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED the finance committee which, amongst other things, sets, they have an opportunity to challenge constructively, monitors and reports on operating plans, comparison of and help develop, proposals on strategy: our brands actual financial performance against budget there are effective communications with all shareholders: and and year-end forecasts has been reconstituted and it now comprises two non-executive directors in addition to the the Groups governance is effective.
chief executive and finance director: Senior independent director the senior independent director has taken the chair of the As senior independent director since April 2006, Richard nominations committee which was previously held by Greenhalgh is available to talk with shareholders who have the former chairman : questions or concerns.
Until the resignation of the former agendas for board meetings are agreed with the senior non-executive chairman, he also chaired meetings when independent director: and non-executive directors reviewed the performance of the former non-executive chairman.
Led by the senior independent the senior independent director has also taken the lead director, the non-executive directors met and reviewed the role in terms of board and committee evaluations.
chairman and chief executives performance without him being present.
The board reviewed the combined position in December 2011 and again in June 2012.
At each such review Mr Burke was Effectiveness requested to comment on whether assuming the combined role placed an undue burden on him and in each case Mr Burke The composition of the board confirmed that this was not the case.
Size and structure At its most recent review the board identied potential The nominations committee keeps the boards size and times during board meetings when it might be desirable for the structure under review.
The nominations committee is of the chief executive to relinquish the chair in order to facilitate a view that the board is well balanced providing a collective particular discussion.
The board has also reviewed the impact competence to suit the Groups developing needs and an of having a combined role on succession planning.
appropriate blend of executive and non-executive skill.
We The board is also satisfied that despite the fact that believe that all our directors are suitably qualied to help Mr Burke undertakes the combined role of chairman and chief steer and challenge Group strategy.
executive, he does not enjoy unfettered powers of decision.
More than half of our board is independent: At meetings that the senior independent director and company secretary had with the Companys four largest Name Independent Appointed institutional shareholders between May and July this year, Executive those shareholders were invited to express any concerns that Ian Burke x March 2006 they had with regard to Mr Burke assuming the combined role Clive Jennings x July 2011 for the time being, and no specic concerns were raised.
The board has formed the view that Mr Burke is Non-executive successfully undertaking his primary duty as chair in leading Colin Child 9 January 2012 the board, and as chief executive in directing and promoting Richard Greenhalgh 9 July 2004 the profitable operation and development of the Group Sir Richard Needham 9 May 2012 consistent with the primary objective of creating long-term shareholder value.
Owen ODonnell 9 September 2008 The board will continue to keep the position under Tim Scoble 9 April 2010 regular review.
Bill Shannon 9 April 2006 John Warren 9 January 2006 Non-executive directors The directors are satisfied that there are proper procedures Ian Burke was originally appointed to the board on 6 March 2006.
He resigned in place to ensure that: from the board on 28 June 2011 and was reappointed on 3 July 2011.
On 15 July 2011 he became executive chairman.
they are receiving accurate and clear information for the Richard Greenhalgh is the senior independent director.
proper execution of their duties: Until 30 April 2012, Tim Scoble was not independent he was an appointee of Guoco, a parent company of Ranks largest shareholder, which currently owns the Groups objectives, policies and strategies are consistent 291,046,540 ordinary shares in the Company, representing 74.51% of voting rights.
Tim Scoble has been independent since 30 April 2012 when he ceased with lasting shareholder value: to be an appointee of Guoco.
they are able to keep the Groups progress and development under review: The principal terms and conditions of appointment for each director are set out on pages 75 and 76 and their interests in Rank shares are detailed on page 82.
The finance committees terms of reference are available from the Companys website at www.
com downloads terms of reference tor nance committee.
pdf, or by writing to the company secretary.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 61 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Board diversity Appointment of additional non-executive directors During the period under review, the nominations committee Following the announcement of the intended resignation of has continued to consider the issue of diversity in the context the former non-executive chairman at the Companys annual of the board and is mindful of the benets that diversity would general meeting in April 2011, an executive search agency bring to the board.
Whilst the board currently lacks diversity, was retained to identify his successor.
Before his successor the nominations committee remains of the view that it is not was identied, Guocos general offer for Rank was launched appropriate to increase the size of the board merely in order and closed in July 2011, whereupon the chief executive to address diversity.
Nevertheless the board is committed to assumed the chairmanship of Rank.
addressing its lack of gender diversity.
Consequent upon completion of the general offer, the board resolved to bolster its independence by the Committees appointment of two further non-executive directors.
For The composition and chairmanship of our board committees these appointments the committee decided not to use an is considered annually and has been considered twice during external search consultancy or open advertising and instead the period under review.
There have been changes made to was of the view that it would consider potential candidates the composition of all board committees during the period recommended by existing directors and third parties.
considering recommendations, the committee had due regard to the benets of diversity on the board.
A number of potential Appointments to the board candidates were put forward on a short list and three members Nominations committee of the nominations committee met two of those candidates.
The formal terms of reference of the nominations committee One of those candidates, Colin Child, was appointed to are available on our website at www.
com downloads the board and to the audit committee with effect from terms of reference tor nominations committee.
pdf, or by 1 January 2012. written request to the company secretary.
The committee continued its search for one further The nominations committee is responsible for identifying independent non-executive director.
The committee was relevant talent and nominating all board appointments.
particularly interested in identifying an individual who would During the period under review the committee met formally be able to assist the Group with its lobbying efforts in the UK on five occasions.
The main issues which it discussed were: given the highly regulated nature of the Groups operations and board composition: the impact that changes in regulation had had in the past.
An individual with this skill set would not normally be the sort board diversity: of individual found via an executive search consultancy.
One candidate with the requisite background, Sir Richard Needham, succession planning for non-executive chairman: was recommended to the committee chairman and he and appointment of additional non-executive directors: another committee member interviewed Sir Richard, following which he was recommended for appointment to the board review of independence of former Guoco appointee: and duly appointed with effect from 1 May 2012. re-appointment of two non-executive directors: and Re-appointment of non-executive directors As at 31 December 2011 John Warren had served his second chairmanship and membership of board committees.
three-year term as a non-executive director of the Company.
The nominations committee considered the re-appointment Terms of appointment of John Warren for a further term and, with a view to avoiding The agreed terms and conditions for non-executive directors more than one non-executive director resigning in the same comply with the Code and are available for inspection at the year, resolved to recommend to the board his re-appointment Companys registered ofce.
for a further two years with effect from 1 January 2012, which Resignation and appointment of finance director recommendation the board accepted.
In his former position as group financial controller, Clive As at 2 April 2012 Bill Shannon had served his second Jennings had already been identied by the board as a potential three-year term as a non-executive director of the Company.
successor to the role of finance director and his professional The nominations committee considered the re-appointment development had been tailored accordingly.
Additionally he of Bill Shannon for a further term and, mindful of the need had been assessed by an external search consultancy.
Following to refresh the board progressively, resolved to recommend to the resignation of Paddy Gallagher as finance director on the board his re-appointment until 31 December 2012.
28 June 2011, the board, on the recommendation of the nominations committee, appointed Clive as finance director on 27 July 2011.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 62 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED With effect from 30 April 2012, Tim Scoble ceased to be a Skills and knowledge representative of Guoco.
Mr Scoble and the board consider All directors are given quarterly written briengs with regard to Mr Scoble to be independent with effect from that date.
Given matters affecting the Groups businesses, such as the gambling that Mr Scobles experience as a leisure operator, with particular market, the competitive landscape, technological developments expertise in developing consumer brands and service delivery, and the political and regulatory environment.
Additionally, at was beneficial for Rank the board, on the recommendation the boards request, the Groups auditors keep the board abreast of the nominations committee, agreed that Mr Scoble should of key impact items such as political and regulatory initiatives remain as a director at least until after the 2012 annual general with regard to narrative reporting, executive remuneration, meeting following which the nominations committee would going concern, the role of the audit committee, audit tenders give the matter further consideration given the composition and the choice of service provider for non-audit services.
Directors are invited to identify to the company secretary or human resources director any desired skills and knowledge Commitment enhancements that they require so that appropriate training The terms of appointment of non-executive directors are can be arranged.
outlined on page 75 of the directors remuneration report.
Additionally, once a year, the directors have an All non-executive directors are required to disclose their opportunity to review and agree their respective training and other significant commitments both before appointment and development needs during their one-on-one meetings with following subsequent changes so that the board can satisfy the executive chairman.
itself that each of the directors has sufficient time to allocate to the Company to discharge his responsibilities effectively.
Information and support Executive directors are permitted to accept one external Assisted by the company secretary, the chairman and chief appointment in a non-executive capacity and to retain any fees executive is responsible for ensuring that directors receive received, provided there are no conicts either in interests or accurate and timely information on all relevant matters.
This is in recognition of the fact that such appointments The directors receive a monthly report of current and can broaden the knowledge and experience of executive forecast trading results and treasury positions, as well as directors to the benefit of Rank.
Neither Ian Burke nor Clive Jennings currently holds any A rolling programme of items sets the agenda for board directorships outside the Rank Group.
This is regularly reviewed and updated to cover serves as a visiting professor at the Centre for Management topical issues and developments.
Studies at Birmingham City University.
There is no set time Comprehensive brieng papers on substantive agenda commitment for this role which is unpaid.
items are circulated at least five working days before meetings where possible.
These contain detailed background information, Development thus freeing time for informed debate.
Induction We operate an open-door policy between the board During the period under review, one executive and two and the management team.
Members of the management non-executive directors were appointed to the board.
The team also make regular board presentations to ensure a non-executive directors were given a comprehensive induction ow of operational information reaches the directors in a programme, which included briengs on the Groups trading timely way.
In addition to the two strategy debate days that environment, site visits and meetings with senior management took place between the management team and the board and the external auditors.
The executive director had been the during the period under review, the managing directors of Groups financial controller for a number of years and therefore Grosvenor Casinos and Mecca Bingo presented to the board his induction was tailored having regard to his prior knowledge on five occasions and the chief technology officer, human of the business and trading environment.
resources director and director of strategy presented on one occasion each.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and, if required, may take independent advice and or professional development at the Companys expense.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 63 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Evaluation Accountability To monitor overall board performance, we use off-the-record questionnaires between the executive chairman and each Risk management and internal control director to evaluate individuals, the committees and the board Risk management as a whole.
As part of its risk oversight role, the board satisfies itself that The chairman and chief executive conducted individual the necessary steps are taken to foster a culture of risk-adjusted interviews with each board member to discuss their decision-making throughout the Group.
The board strives contributions during the year.
The senior independent director to ensure that risk management is an integral component of conducted an individual interview with the chairman and the Groups corporate strategy, culture and value generation chief executive to review his individual performance in the process.
The boards view is that risk management should be period under review.
neither an impediment to the conduct of business nor a mere The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent supplement to the Groups overall compliance programme.
director, held their meeting to appraise the chairman and chief The risk management process is reviewed by the audit executives performance and effectiveness in June 2012. committee on behalf of the board and monitored regularly The board reviewed and discussed anonymised responses by the chief executive, supported by the company secretary.
to the board and committee evaluation questionnaires.
The The Companys risk management reporting provides board agreed that there were some additional actions that knowledge of current and emerging risks, trends and could be undertaken in order to make the board more effective, opportunities that may colour strategic decisions.
Rank but nevertheless were agreed that, overall, the board functioned communicates with regulators, Government, non-governmental effectively during the period under review and that its organisations and other bodies who have opinions about Ranks committees continued to discharge their duties in line with business, its future and effects.
their respective terms of reference.
Compliance with the Bribery Act 2010 and HM Treasury Additionally, following the completion of Guocos Financial Sanctions forms part of the general risks and internal general offer for Rank in July 2011, the board met to appraise controls reporting to the board.
Our audit committee also its performance during the bid process.
To assist in this process reviews managements bi-annual reports on anti money it requested input from external advisers who had knowledge laundering, internal and external fraud, whistleblowing, of the boards actions and deliberations during the bid.
The code of conduct and inadvertent breaches of legislation.
post-bid board performance appraisal identied some areas Following an externally facilitated risk assessment exercise where the board might have acted differently following undertaken in the final quarter of 2010, the board has reviewed Guocos announcement that it controlled 56.4% of the voting the mitigating actions, risk indicators and measurement criteria rights in Rank and that its offer was then unconditional.
for the Groups current principal risks.
During December 2011 and January 2012 the rm that facilitated the Groups most Re-election recent risk assessment exercise undertook a review to assist the All new directors must stand for election at the first annual board in understanding, and to comment upon, the robustness general meeting after their appointment and, thereafter, at of Ranks mitigating activities and risk reporting for four of intervals of no more than three years.
Non-executive directors the top risks.
The results of that external review, together with are engaged for an initial period of three years and must stand managements comments, were considered by the board in for election and re-appointment in the same way.
Ranks March 2012. articles of association require one third of serving directors At its meetings in June 2011 and May 2012, the board to retire annually.
considered and discussed its appetite for risk.
Given that Colin Child, Clive Jennings and Sir Richard Needham Rank operates in an industry which is subject to government have all been appointed to the board since the last annual intervention, there would be a tendency towards a lower risk general meeting and are therefore required to submit appetite than in some other businesses.
themselves for election at the forthcoming annual general Principal risks and uncertainties meeting on 19 October 2012.
We outline below in more detail what we are doing to address On the recommendation of the nominations committee, our principal risks.
The key financial risks facing the Group can at a meeting of the board held in December 2011, it was agreed be found on page 51. that the Company would comply with the Codes requirement for annual re-election of directors of FTSE-350 companies.
Therefore all other directors will also submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 64 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Taxation and regulation External events Adverse change scal and regulatory in legislation continues Customers may be prevented or deterred from accessing our to be our biggest risk.
clubs due to factors such as extreme weather, illness or disease Changes in political and social attitudes to gambling in our epidemics, terrorist threats, strikes and public transport system key markets and negative publicity surrounding the gambling failures.
Whilst these matters are outside our direct sphere of industry could negatively inuence regulators perception of inuence, we continue to work hard to better prepare ourselves gambling and could lead to increased gambling regulation.
This for such eventualities, particularly in terms of co-ordinating could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability with our interactive businesses and making sure that employees and prevent us from providing gambling services.
We are subject to gambling taxation and levies in Great Britain and the other countries in which we operate.
Any Loss of licences increases in the levels of taxation or levies to which we are Ranks gaming licences are fundamental to its operation and subject, or the implementation of any new taxes or levies to therefore the loss of them would be catastrophic for Rank.
which we will be subject, could have a material adverse effect This fact has fostered a heavily compliant culture within Rank.
on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Rank has a dedicated compliance function that is independent For further information please see our tax fact le on page 52. of operations and a separate internal audit function that is We participate actively in trade bodies presentations independent of both operations and the compliance function.
to Government and opposition parties.
As we have done Rank maintains a strong and open relationship with the in previous years, during the period under review we have Gambling Commission, the body responsible for regulating arranged key stakeholder familiarisation visits to some of our commercial gambling in the United Kingdom.
Since entering sites in order that stakeholders can have an opportunity to see the online gaming market, Rank has worked hard to build our businesses in operation.
This enables stakeholders to gain a similarly strong and open relationship with the Alderney a better understanding of the positive effect of our business Gambling Control Commission, which is responsible for activities, including the provision of a safe environment within the regulation of eGambling in the States of Alderney.
Our which adults can enjoy gambling, the creation of employment responsible gambling and anti money laundering review and the generation of revenues for the Exchequer.
committees meet quarterly to review topical issues, trends and statistics and their findings are reported to our audit IT security committee.
We also have a director of security who is supported We are highly dependent on technology and advanced by an experienced security team who have built informal information systems and our systems may fail or be vulnerable relationships with police forces in the areas in which we to hacker intrusion, malicious viruses and other cyber crime operate so that if problems arise there are open channels attacks.
Distributed denial-of-service attacks and other forms of communication.
of cyber crime, such as attempts by computer hackers to gain access to our systems and databases for the purposes of Economic environment manipulating results and or stealing personal information of The uncertain economic environment, higher indirect our customers, may cause systems failure, business disruption taxation and public sector job cuts could adversely affect our and have materially adverse effects on our financial condition.
customers expenditure on leisure activities and we therefore Whilst we employ prevention measures, such attacks are by monitor customer spending closely.
We are constantly looking their nature technologically sophisticated and may be difficult to identify ways to improve our offer so that we become or impossible to detect and defend.
If our prevention measures our customers leisure destination of choice.
We maintain a should fail or be circumvented, our reputation may be harmed programme of active engagement with members of our banking and current or potential customers may be deterred from using panel and we check the bond and debt markets regularly for our services, which in turn could have a material adverse effect availability so that we can move quickly should they show on our financial condition.
We have policies and procedures in place to safeguard our customer data and to respond swiftly to breaches and attempted breaches of the Groups IT systems.
Systems penetration testing is carried out regularly and our IT policies and procedures are regularly reviewed in the light of developments.
We continue to increase our IT security resource as our brands grow online and as we deploy more technology in our clubs.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 65 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Level of Rank shares in public hands Our system of internal control is designed to manage rather Under Listing Rule 6.1.
19R, shares held by persons who have than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, an interest in 5% or more of a listed companys share capital and provides reasonable, not absolute, assurance against are not regarded as being held in public hands.
Under this rule, material misstatement or loss.
It controls, rather the shares held by Hong Leong Company Malaysia Berhad, than eliminates, any human error, deliberate misconduct Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group companies and or unforeseen events.
Prudential plc and subsidiary companies may not be regarded Internal audit as being in public hands, with the result that the number Our internal audit team provides an objective and continuous of Ranks shares distributed to the public is below the 25% stream of data and opinion on risk management and control.
threshold set out in Listing Rule 6.1.
Under Listing Rule To avoid bias, it is entirely independent of the business 6.1.
20R, the FSA may modify Listing Rule 6.1.
19R to accept operations under audit and line management is to the Groups a percentage below 25% if it considers that the market will finance director.
operate properly with a lower percentage.
Under Listing Rule The team is responsible for a systematic appraisal of our 5.2.
1R, the FSA has the power to cancel the listing of securities adherence to policies and procedures.
Its role is to safeguard if it is satisfied that there are special circumstances that preclude Ranks assets and interests from loss, including fraud, and to normal regular dealings in them.
Rank is in discussions with the ensure the integrity of financial information.
FSA in relation to this issue.
Following the sudden passing away of the Groups former Internal control framework head of internal audit at the end of 2011, a decision was made To maintain control and direction over strategic, financial, to split the internal audit function, separating operational operational and compliance issues, the board has put in audit from systems and finance audit.
place formally dened lines of responsibility and delegation The head of operational internal audit makes regular of authority.
presentations to the committee and reporting includes Established procedures are geared to identify, evaluate and comparative and trend analysis.
During the period under manage significant risks and to monitor the Groups businesses review the audit committee had four closed sessions with the and performance.
former and current heads of internal audit without executive This framework is reviewed annually and is designed to management being present.
safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets, To embed control further, the scores used by internal audit while ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained.
to monitor each business units reporting performance also Senior management is responsible for making sure that controls affect operational management bonuses.
and procedures are enforced and that the board is informed of Compliance any risks and control issues that arise.
Compliance affects our reputation, legal position and financial Financial control: there is a comprehensive system for sustainability.
The board is responsible for compliance across reporting financial results to the board, a budgeting process the Group and for ensuring that all Rank businesses meet local incorporating an approved budget and quarterly re-forecasts.
The chief executive and Group finance director hold monthly Compliance with the Gambling Act 2005 is fundamental to review meetings with managing directors and their respective the survival of Ranks businesses, creating a heavily compliant heads of finance.
A dedicated compliance and security team of 15 employees Financial reporting control: detailed policies and procedures monitors day-to-day adherence to the provisions of the are in place to ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial Gambling Act 2005 and other regulatory obligations.
A new financial reporting system was installed Senior executives and the internal audit team are during 2011 which has enhanced our reporting capability.
responsible for monitoring overall compliance.
They report Strategic control: the board reviews the Groups strategic plans to the audit committee and the board.
annually and regularly reviews strategic progress.
Control culture Operational control: our procedures are laid down in detailed The board oversees a culture of strong control and risk manuals and reinforced by employee training.
This is reected in: unit carries out a monthly self-audit to test key controls and directors methods of enforcing control, some of which report weaknesses to operational management.
were established through Ranks historical activities in the USA and the requirement to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Communication control: the executive directors and senior Act 2002: management meet regularly with representatives from the businesses to address financial, human resource, risk management style and philosophy: management and other control issues.
dedicated teams for compliance and internal audit: and Ranks organisational structure and clear lines of accountability, authority and responsibility.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 66 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Code of conduct Audit committee activity in 2011 12 Rank has an employee code of conduct that sets out our values At its meetings in the 18-month period to 30 June 2012 and principles and guides everyones behaviour.
Adherence the committee examined the effectiveness of the Groups to the code is important.
It upholds our reputation and approach to: relationships, inside and outside the Company.
assessment of risk by reviewing evidence of current and The audit committee is responsible for monitoring emerging risk and the Groups risk management processes: management reports on employee conduct, including our internal control by approving the internal audit plan and whistleblowing programme.
reviewing its findings, reviewing the annual and interim financial statements, reviewing the reports of the external Audit committee and auditors auditors and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Audit committee membership and meetings internal audit function: The board has established an audit committee of four independent non-executive directors.
A rolling agenda and action plans to address any failings or weaknesses of internal topical items determine the committees discussions.
control: and Members of the audit committee are listed on page 58. action plans to manage significant risks.
The board is satisfied that the majority of the committees members has recent and relevant financial experience.
This process has been in place during the period and up to the The chairman and chief executive, finance director, date of approval of this annual report and financial statements.
company secretary and group financial controller normally It has been reviewed by the board and meets the Turnbull attend committee meetings, as do the external auditors.
Other Internal Control Guidance for directors.
directors are encouraged to attend at least one committee meeting a year at which the auditors are present.
Audit committee evaluation The committee met formally four times in the period under The audit committees performance was assessed by review.
Its terms of reference are available from the Companys questionnaire to members and other executives who have website at www.
com downloads terms of reference tor dealings with the committee in July 2012.
The board concluded audit committee.
that the committee continues to function effectively.
Role of the audit committee Auditors The audit committee assists the board in reviewing and The auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, are willing to continue maintaining internal controls, the management of risk in ofce and a resolution that they be re-appointed at a and our compliance with the law and regulation.
remuneration to be agreed by the audit committee will It monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Relations with external auditors It also assesses the integrity of all public financial Our auditors are employed to express an opinion on the statements before their submission to the board, ensuring financial statements.
They review the systems of internal we present a fair assessment of the Groups ongoing position financial control and the data contained in the financial and prospects.
statements to the extent necessary to express their opinion.
Any changes in accounting policies are authorised by the They discuss with management the reporting of committee, which also reviews the objectivity and effectiveness operational results and the financial position of the Group, of our external auditors every year.
and present findings to the audit committee.
The committee oversees the Companys internal code of conduct and monitors our whistle-blowing programme through Information which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about The directors in ofce at the date of this report are not aware possible improprieties in areas of financial reporting, financial of any relevant information that has not been made available control and other ethical matters.
to the auditors and each director has taken steps to be aware The committee is regularly updated on accounting and of all such information and to ensure it is available to the legislative changes through brieng papers from the Group Companys auditors.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 67 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Non-audit work Assurance The audit committee oversees the nature and amount of any The internal audit function and the external auditors presented non-audit work undertaken by the auditors to ensure they their findings to the committee in February 2011, July 2011, remain independent.
Consequently, the committee is required to January 2012 and June 2012.
We confirm that action plans approve in advance all non-audit services above a specified value.
to remedy identied weaknesses in internal control and risk When seeking external accountancy advice in relation to management have been in place throughout the period.
non-audit matters, the Groups policy is to invite competitive Ernst & Young LLPs audit report is published on page 86. tenders where appropriate.
It is also the Groups policy to balance the need to maintain audit independence with the Relations with shareholders desirability of taking advice from the leading rm in the area of advice being sought and the desirability of being efficient.
Dialogue with shareholders Details of the fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP throughout The board as a whole takes responsibility for ensuring that the period under review can be found on page 103. satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
A large portion of the non-audit fees paid to Ernst & Young We speak with institutional shareholders and city analysts LLP relate to the working capital and commercial due diligence through a programme of investor relations and regular reports in connection with the proposed acquisition of Gala meetings with principal shareholders.
Rank obtained a proposal for the working All directors receive reports to keep them in touch with capital work from another accounting rm but, on balance, shareholder opinion.
During the period under review, a total concluded that Ernst & Young LLP should be retained to carry of 32 meetings with 17 shareholders were attended by one or out the work given their knowledge of the gaming industry more of the former chairman, senior independent director, and given the fact that any other rm would need to carry out current chairman and chief executive and finance director.
additional work in order to familiarise themselves with Ranks Formal briengs on shareholder opinion are circulated financial position.
The commercial due diligence work was also to the board after presentation of the Companys interim undertaken by Ernst & Young LLP on the same basis.
Most of and annual results.
the remainder of the non-audit fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP The Group has circulated to institutional investors, other related to tax advice.
Again, Rank obtained a proposal for this shareholders and potential shareholders who have so requested, work from another accounting rm but concluded that it was a monthly investor update newsletter covering broker research, more desirable to engage Ernst & Young LLP.
The remainder of consensus forecasts, share price performance, business news and the fees related to legacy tax matters in relation to which Ernst industry information.
& Young LLP has advised since before it was appointed as the The principal method of communicating with all our Groups auditors and Rank does not consider it to be efficient shareholders is via our corporate website, www.
to move the work to another rm.
Information can be provided in paper format but only when Rank has used the services of other accounting rms for shareholders specically request this.
non-audit work during the period under review.
Shareholders may also use electronic means to vote or Notwithstanding the level of non-audit fees paid to Ernst appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at the annual and & Young LLP throughout the period, Rank is satisfied that the other general meetings of the Company.
objectivity and independence of the audit partner and the audit engagement team have not been compromised.
Constructive use of the annual general meeting All shareholders are welcome to attend our annual general Auditor assessment meeting AGM.
Private investors are encouraged to ask In addition to a private meeting between the audit committee questions following a summary business presentation of the chair and the external audit partner, the committee meets Groups results and development plans.
with the auditors following each audit committee meeting The chairman and chief executive and chairmen of the in a closed session without executive directors to assess the audit, remuneration, nominations and finance committees objectivity and accuracy of financial reporting.
The committee reviews the external audit process and the Shareholders are invited to vote on the formal resolutions auditors performance at least annually, providing feedback contained in the notice of meeting, which is published at least to the auditors from management assessments.
The business presentation, voting Having reviewed their performance throughout the period, results and a summary of the questions and answers are made our conclusion on their effectiveness enables us to recommend available at www.
com, or in printed format on request.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 68 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Page number s Next AGM The 2012 annual general meeting will be held on 19 October Accounting policies adopted 92 2012 and the full text of the notice of meeting, together Annual general meeting 68 with explanatory notes, is set out in a separate document at: Auditors disclosure of information to 67 http: www.
com downloads agm nom 2012. pdf.
Auditors reappointment 67 If you have elected for paper information, this will be enclosed with your hard copy of this annual report.
Board of directors 56 Shareholders wishing to change that election may do Business description 5 so at any time by contacting the Companys registrar Business objectives, strategies and likely 14 contact details are on page 149 and on our website at future developments http: www.
Business overseas locations 6 Business trends and factors 12 Other disclosures The Companies Act 2006, the Large and Medium-sized Change of control significant agreements 72 Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations Change of control directors and 72 2008, the Companies Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration and employees compensation Liability Limitation Agreements Regulations 2008, the Corporate responsibility: environment, 40 Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code employees and community June 2010 the Code, the Financial Services Authoritys Critical contractual and other arrangements 72 the FSA Listing Rules and the Financial Services Authoritys Directors appointment and retirement 62 and 64 Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules DTR contain mandatory disclosure requirements in relation to this annual Directors conicts of interest 60 report in respect of the 18-month period ended 30 June 2012.
Directors insurance and indemnity 60 For ease of reference we have provided below details of the Directors interests in shares and share 82 and 85 pages within this annual report and financial statements where incentive plans you will nd many of the mandatory disclosures, all of which Directors responsibility statements 73 are incorporated by reference and deemed to form part of our Dividends 47 directors report: DTR responsibility statement 73 Employee communications and consultations 41 Employee numbers 133 Employees with disabilities 42 Equal opportunities 42 Financial instruments risk management 51 Financial performance and position 46 Going concern 51 Key performance indicators 17, 19 and 21 Political donations 73 Post balance sheet events Principal risks and uncertainties 64 profits 47 Share capital 70 Shares company own share purchases 72 Shares rights, restrictions, obligations 71 and variations significant shareholders 71 Suppliers payment policy and practice 72 The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 69 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Directors The directors who served during the period under review are: Name Position Effective date of change Ian Burke Chairman & chief executive Resigned 28 June 2011 and re-appointed 3 July 2011.
Became executive chairman on 15 July 2011 Colin Child Non-executive director Appointed 1 January 2012 Paddy Gallagher Finance director Resigned 28 June 2011 Richard Greenhalgh Senior independent director Clive Jennings Finance director Appointed 27 July 2011 Peter Johnson Chairman non-executive Resigned 15 July 2011 Sir Richard Needham Non-executive director Appointed 1 May 2012 Owen ODonnell Non-executive director Tim Scoble Non-executive director Bill Shannon Non-executive director Mike Smith Non-executive director Resigned 30 April 2011 John Warren Non-executive director Share capital 8 The Companys authorised share capital as at 30 June 2012 was 180m, divided into 1,296,000,000 ordinary shares of 13 9p each.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in certicated or uncerticated form.
There were 390,613,426 shares in issue at the period-end 390,529,314 as at 31 December 2010, which were held by 12,007 registered shareholders 19,085 as at 31 December 2010.
During the period under review a total of 84,112 shares were issued to participants in The Rank Group 2005 Share Savings Scheme pursuant to the exercise of options under the three-year issue made in 2007 at an exercise price of 139.00p per share.
Distribution of registered shareholders as at 30 June 2012 Total number of registered Total number % of issued Range shareholders % of holders of shares share capital 1 1,000 9,966 83.00% 2,062,151 0.53% 1,001 5,000 1,617 13.47% 3,346,864 0.86% 5,001 10,000 161 1.34% 1,152,230 0.29% 10,001 100,000 202 1.68% 6,227,469 1.59% 100,001 1,000,000 50 0.42% 16,672,827 4.27% 1,000,000 and above 11 0.09% 361,151,885 92.46% Totals 12,007 100.00% 390,613,426 100.00% The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 70 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED significant shareholders Majority shareholder During the period under review, Hong Leong Company Malaysia Berhad the ultimate parent company of Guoco Group Limited Guoco acquired a controlling interest in Rank consequent upon the general offer made by its Hong Kong listed subsidiary company, Guoco, via its wholly-owned subsidiary, All Global Investments Limited now known as Rank Assets Limited.
Hong Leong Group is a leading conglomerate based in Malaysia with diversied businesses in banking and financial services, manufacturing and distribution, property development and investments and hospitality and leisure.
Further information on the Hong Leong Group can be found at www.
Guoco is an investment holding company.
The principal activities of its subsidiaries and associated companies include investment, property development, financial services and hospitality and leisure.
Further information on the Guoco group of companies can be found at www.
One of Guocos other investments in the hospitality and leisure sector is a 66.54% stake in the Singapore-listed GuocoLeisure Limited.
Further information on that company can be found at www.
Interests of 3% or more The following interests of 3% or more of the total voting rights attached to ordinary shares have been notied to the Company in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys the FSA Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules the DTRs.
Due to the fact that the DTRs only require notication where the percentage voting rights reaches, exceeds or falls below 3% and each 1% threshold above 3%, there is a difference between disclosures made pursuant to the DTRs and those disclosed on our website at www.
jsp which are based on responses to s. 793 Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 notices issued by the Company.
For ease of reference, we have included below voting rights in respect of both DTRs disclosures and s. 793 CA 2006 responses up to and including the date of this report.
19R, shares held by persons who have Rights and restrictions attaching to shares an interest in 5% or more of a listed companys share capital Voting rights are not regarded as being held in public hands.
Under this rule, Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at general the shares held by Hong Leong Company Malaysia Berhad, meetings of the Company.
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group companies and Meeting rights Prudential plc and subsidiary companies may not be regarded Registered holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend as being in public hands, with the result that the number and speak at general meetings and to appoint proxies.
of Ranks shares distributed to the public is below the 25% threshold set out in Listing Rule 6.1.
Under Listing Rule Information rights 6.1.
19R to accept Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys a percentage below 25% if it considers that the market will annual report and financial statements.
Under Listing Rule Share transfer restrictions 5.2.
1R, the FSA has the power to cancel the listing of securities There are no specic restrictions on the transfer of shares if it is satisfied that there are special circumstances that preclude contained in the Companys articles of association.
normal regular dealings in them.
Rank is in discussions with The Company is not aware of any agreements between the FSA in relation to this issue.
the holders of Rank shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or that may result in restrictions Directors interests in shares on voting rights.
Please see page 82 of the directors remuneration report for details of the directors interests in shares.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 71 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Variation of rights Change of control Subject to applicable legislation, the rights attached to Ranks Our principal loan term and credit facility agreements and the ordinary shares may be varied with the written consent of the facilities agreements in place for the purposes of the proposed holders of at least three quarters in nominal value of those acquisition of Gala Casinos Limited contain provisions that, shares, or by a special resolution passed at a general meeting on a change of control of Rank, immediate repayment can be of the ordinary shareholders.
demanded of all advances and any accrued interest.
We have arrangements with one employee to provide Directors powers in relation to shares compensation for loss of employment in the event of a Allotment and issue of shares change of control at Rank, should no suitable role be offered Subject to the provisions of the CA 2006, and subject to any by a new owner.
resolution passed by the Company pursuant to the CA 2006 The provisions of the Companys share schemes and and other shareholder rights, shares in Rank may be issued incentive plans may cause options and awards granted to with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by employees to vest in the event of a takeover.
If there is no such resolution or A change of control may also affect licences to operate, so far as the Company does not make specic provision, they as specified in the provisions of the Gambling Act 2005 and may be issued as Ranks board of directors may decide.
Subject the Alderney eGambling Regulations 2009 as amended and to the Companys articles of association, the CA 2006 and the Belgian Games of Chance Act 1999 as amended.
other shareholder rights, unissued shares are at the disposal Save in relation to outstanding awards under Ranks of the board.
long-term incentive plan see page 79, the acquisition by The Company currently has no shareholder authority to Guoco of a controlling interest in Rank during the period under allot and grant rights over any proportion of the Companys review did not have any impact on any of the above matters.
unissued share capital, nor does it have shareholders authority to allot and grant rights over ordinary shares without first Critical contractual and other arrangements making a pro rata offer to all existing ordinary shareholders.
We assess and record any risks in our dealings with major Neither of these authorities is required for the purpose of suppliers as part of the Groups overall risk management allotting shares pursuant to employee share schemes.
Contingency plans are in place to deal with events the board has no present intention of allotting shares for any should key supply arrangements be terminated without other reason, these shareholder authorities will not be sought due warning.
at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Our procurement team also reviews the financial health of our main suppliers.
We have concluded that, while unexpected Market purchases of own shares termination of any of the Groups major contractors would be The Company currently has no shareholder authority to disruptive, it would not have a severe adverse effect.
make market purchases of its own shares and it has no present intention of making any such purchases.
Therefore Suppliers payment policy and practice the Company does not intend to seek such authority at the Ranks individual businesses and intermediate holding forthcoming annual general meeting.
companies agree terms and conditions for business transactions with their respective suppliers.
Payments are made to suppliers Directors other powers once they have met these terms and conditions.
Subject to legislation, the directors may exercise all the powers At 30 June 2012 the Group had an average of 28 days permitted by the Companys memorandum and articles of purchases owed to trade creditors 2010: 38. association.
A copy of these can be obtained by writing to The Company is the holding company of the Rank group the company secretary, or from Companies House.
of companies and as such has no trade creditors.
The articles contain provisions to empower the directors in certain specic matters, including: Charitable donations appointment of directors, subject to subsequent In the 18-month period under review we made, or committed, shareholder approval: charitable donations in the UK of 507,000 2010: 360,000, of which the largest was 423,000 2010: 306,000 to delegation of powers to a director, secretary or committee of one or more persons: Responsible Gambling Trust the charitable organisation formed following the merger of The GREaT Foundation the Companys powers to borrow money: and and the Responsible Gambling Fund.
Further information can be found in the operating the ability of a director to vote on matters in which he responsibly section of this report, pages 40 to 45. has an interest.
Changes to the Companys articles of association can only be made by a resolution passed by a majority of no less than 75% of shareholders.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 72 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Political donations specic requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European We made no political donations during the period Union is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact under review.
of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the It has been Ranks long-standing practice not to make Groups financial position and final performance: cash payments to political parties and the board intends that this will remain the case.
However, the CA 2006 is very state whether the financial statements have been prepared broadly drafted and could catch activities such as funding in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, seminars and other functions to which politicians are invited, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained supporting certain bodies involved in policy review and law in the financial statements: and reform and matching employees donations to certain charities.
Accordingly, as in previous years, the directors will be seeking prepare the financial statements for both the Company and shareholders authority for political donations and political the Group on the going concern basis, unless it is appropriate expenditure at the forthcoming annual general meeting in to assume that the Group will not continue in business, case any of Ranks activities are inadvertently caught by in which case there should be supporting assumptions the legislation.
The directors confirm that they have complied with all of Responsibility statements under the DTR the above.
Each of the directors named on pages 56 and 57 confirms that to the best of his knowledge: Accounting records the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS The directors must keep proper accounting records that disclose as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial position view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the Group and ensure that the financial of the Company and the undertakings included in the statements and the directors remuneration report comply consolidation taken as a whole: and with the Companies Act 2006 and, for the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard the directors report which incorporates the Group IAS Regulation.
operating and financial review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the Safeguarding assets position of the Company and the undertakings included The directors are also accountable for safeguarding the in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a assets of the Company and the Group and, therefore, for description of the risks and uncertainties that they face.
taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Directors responsibility statements Corporate website Annual report and financial statements The maintenance and integrity of Ranks corporate website, The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report on which this annual report and financial statements are including the directors report, the directors remuneration published, is the boards responsibility.
We would draw report and the corporate governance statement and the attention to the fact that legislation in the UK on the financial statements of the Group and the Company, in preparation and publication of financial statements may accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and differ from other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors are required to prepare Group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the directors must not approve the Group financial By order of the board statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit Frances Bingham or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the Group Company secretary financial statements, the directors are required to: 16 August 2012 present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash ows of the Group: select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: make judgements that are reasonable: The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 73
