Corporate Governance Report The Company enjoys a premium listing on Meetings Executive Committee, acting individually or the London Stock Exchange and is Board meetings are structured to allow open as a group or sub-committee.
During the therefore required to produce a Corporate discussion.
The Board meets a minimum of five year, this power was used to establish an Governance Statement containing the times a year and constitutes additional internal Disclosure Committee to assist the information set out in this Report.
This meetings including by telephone or written CEO and CFO with regulatory disclosure Report is prepared with reference to the resolutions to consider specific matters which it controls and procedures: Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate has reserved to itself for decision.
Power to acquire and dispose of businesses Governance Code Code in effect for the In 2012, there were five regular Board meetings and to approve unbudgeted capital financial periods beginning on or after 29 June plus one additional meeting.
There were four expenditure projects subject, in each case, to 2010.
This Report sets out how the Company Audit Committee meetings, four Remuneration a 50m limit: and has applied the Main Principles of the Code Committee meetings plus one additional throughout the year ended 31 December 2012.
Power to instruct advisers and to instigate meeting and one Nomination Committee legal proceedings on behalf of the Company meeting.
The table below sets out the in respect of matters for which no further attendance by individual Directors at scheduled A: Leadership Board authority is required.
3: THE CHAIRMAN Directors Insurance and Indemnities The Board leads and controls RBs business The Chairman, who was independent on The Directors benefit from the indemnity with a Board structure similar to that of its appointment, is responsible for leading the provision in the Companys Articles of key international competitor companies Board and enabling the Directors to operate Association.
Each individual, who is an Officer which are mainly based in the US.
The Board effectively as one unit to determine the of the Company and or of any company within approves strategy, carries out an advisory strategy, risk appetite and governance structure RB at any time on or after 28 July 2009, and supervisory role and accepts ultimate necessary to deliver Shareholder value in a benefits from a deed poll of indemnity in responsibility for the conduct of RBs business.
His respect of the costs of defending claims against The schedule of matters reserved for the responsibilities include: him or her and third party liabilities.
Directors Boards decision includes: and Officers liability insurance cover was Chairing and ensuring that Board meetings Takeover offers and the response to any maintained throughout the year at the provide a forum that encourages open takeover approach: Companys expense.
debate and effective contributions from individual Directors with sufficient time Significant acquisitions, disposals and capital A.
2: DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES allocated to key issues: expenditure projects: There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO.
The Developing an effective working relationship Final approval of annual budgets and Chairman is responsible for the overall with the CEO whilst recognising the need to corporate plans: operation, leadership and governance of maintain the balance between critical Approval of financial statements and the Board.
friendship and executive responsibility: Shareholder communications: The CEO is responsible for the executive Finalising the Board meeting agenda Treasury policies and risk management management of RBs business, consistent with developed by the CEO and the policies: the strategy and commercial objectives agreed Company Secretary: by the Board.
The CEO chairs the Executive Significant changes to borrowing facilities or Sponsoring and promoting governance and Committee and, together with the CFO, certain foreign currency transactions: and ethical practices: Group functional heads and Area EVPs he Review and approval of recommendations appoints to the Committee, provides the Encouraging dialogue between the Company from the Committees of the Board.
day-to-day management of the Company.
and its Shareholders and other stakeholders Biographical details of the members of the and facilitating the Boards understanding of The annual review of this schedule was Executive Committee are set out on page 18.
Shareholders concerns: undertaken in November 2012 as part of the The matters delegated to the CEO by the performance evaluations conducted for the Overseeing the induction, information and Board include: 2012 financial year.
support provisions for Directors: and Power to delegate the day-to-day The principal activities undertaken by the Board Leading the annual performance evaluation management of the business of the are set out in the Business Review on pages 10 of the Board and its Committees.
Company to each of the Officers of the to 17.
Number of Scheduled Meetings Attended during 2012 Note Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Adrian Bellamy 5 4 1 Richard Cousins 5 4 Liz Doherty 5 Peter Harf a 4 1 Kenneth Hydon 5 4 1 Rakesh Kapoor 5 1 Andr Lacroix 5 4 Graham Mackay 5 4 1 Judith Sprieser 5 4 1 Warren Tucker 5 4 Notes a Peter Harf was unavoidably absent from one meeting.
The Board has delegated authority that actively considers diversity is better able The Non-Executive Directors are independent of to the Committee through its terms of to support diversity efforts in the rest of the management and therefore able to provide reference, a copy of which is available on the organisation and is equipped to identify the critical input into Board decisions through their Companys website.
The primary focus of the organisations requirements.
contributions to Board discussions and their Committee is to make recommendations on: Directors Conflicts of Interest roles on, and Chairmanship of, Board The composition and performance of the The Nomination Committee is responsible for Committees.
They: Board and its Committees: the Companys procedures for dealing with Contribute international and operational Directors conflicts of interest and these Appointments and re-elections to the Board experience and a knowledge and procedures have operated effectively during the and its Committees: and understanding of global financial issues, the year.
A register of Directors conflicts is sectors in which RB operates and the health Succession plans for the Chairman and maintained by the Company Secretary and and safety, environmental and community other Directors.
reviewed by the Board at least annually.
The challenges it faces: Board is aware of the other commitments of its The principal activities of the Nomination Directors and any changes to these Monitor management performance against Committee during the year were the: commitments are reported to the Board.
strategy and provide reasoned input and Consideration of the current and future constructive challenge to ensure objectives B.
3: COMMITMENT composition of the Board: and are met: and All new Non-Executive Directors confirm in Together with the rest of the Board, the writing that they are able to allocate sufficient Assess and monitor the integrity of financial appointment of Adrian Hennah as the time to meet the expectations of the role.
The information and the systems of risk new CFO.
Board has adopted a letter of appointment that management and internal control.
contains the terms on which Non-Executive Board Appointments The Chairman holds a session with other Directors will be appointed including: In respect of the appointment of Adrian Non-Executive Directors at the conclusion of Hennah as CFO and Executive Director and the Confirmation that the appointment is a each formal Board meeting without the sensitivities surrounding the change in CFO contract for services and details of any Executive Directors present.
within a relatively short period of time, the Committee appointments: The Senior Independent Director SID provides a Company initially retained a search consultant Confirmation of the initial appointment term sounding board for the Chairman and is with which it had worked previously.
A list of of three years terminable on one months available to the other Directors and current FTSE 100 financial directors was written notice and the expectation that the Shareholders who have concerns that cannot be reviewed and a shortlist of potential candidates appointment will usually last for more than addressed through the Chairman, CEO or CFO.
Taking a comprehensive approach, one term: and the Company decided to invite a boutique search agency, which specialised in the City of The requirement to seek the agreement of B: Effectiveness London and private equity appointments to the Chairman before accepting additional support the recruitment process and a desk commitments including other directorships B.
1: BOARD COMPOSITION exercise was undertaken to identify a shortlist and the requirement to disclose any actual or The Board comprises eight Non-Executive of interested candidates.
There was significant potential conflicts of interest.
Directors including Adrian Bellamy, the input from the existing Non-Executive Directors Chairman, and two Executive Directors, Rakesh The terms of reference of the Nomination in the candidate identification and meetings Kapoor, CEO and Liz Doherty, CFO until 12 Committee give the Committee responsibility process with only the remuneration aspects February 2013 and Adrian Hennah, CFO from for ensuring that Executive Directors do not delegated to the Remuneration Committee.
Information regarding the take on more than one non-executive Furthermore, the issues leading up to the Directors serving at the date of this Report is set directorship in a FTSE 100 company nor decision to change CFO were ones discussed by out on page 18.
Additional biographical details the chairmanship of such company.
the full Board excluding Liz Doherty.
are available from the Companys website.
The performance review of the Board Diversity and Business Success The Board has identified Graham Mackay as the undertaken in 2012 concluded that the The Board is confident that diversity contributes SID.
The majority of Non-Executive Directors Chairman and other Non-Executive to the success of any business.
It enables the excluding the Chairman are independent as Directors devote sufficient time to the business to better understand its opportunities recommended by the Code.
The Board has Companys business.
and risks and to develop robust solutions to deemed Judith Sprieser and Kenneth Hydon as them.
The Board believes and acts on the B.
4: DEVELOPMENT independent notwithstanding that they have basis that: served nine years as Directors.
The Chairman, Induction and Training Adrian Bellamy, was independent on Diversity is much broader than gender and All new Directors are provided with a flexible appointment.
Peter Harf, the Deputy Chairman, should also not be a Board only issue.
It induction programme tailored to accommodate is not independent by virtue of being a incorporates diversity of race, thought, individual areas of interest.
The experience, skills, understanding, perspective the provision of core Company related internal Shareholder Agreement between the Company and age and also requires implementation at and external documents, meetings with key and JAB Holdings B. V. JAB at the time of the all management levels: Directors and senior executives and visits to merger in 1999 entitled JAB to nominate Board various offices and factories as appropriate.
Successful companies sell their goods and Directors.
A holding in excess of 20% or 10% services to customers regardless of gender, The Board holds at least one meeting each year of the Companys ordinary shares entitles JAB to race, ethnic group or religion and a diverse at one of the Companys operating units.
The nominate two Directors or one Director workforce should reflect its customers.
A 2011 meeting was held in India and the 2012 respectively.
JABs current holding is diverse management is more in touch with meeting was held in Brazil.
The Board plans to approximately 10%.
its customers demands, investors visit its operating unit in China during 2013.
2: NOMINATION COMMITTEE AND expectations and employees concerns and The Board receives updates on legal, regulatory BOARD APPOINTMENTS provides a forum for these different and governance matters from its internal and perspectives to come together in devising external advisers.
As part of its investor relations Nomination Committee successful business strategies: and programme, the Board received a presentation The Nomination Committee comprises the from an analyst who gave an overview of the Chairman, who also chairs the Committee, the Diversity is a matter of organisational culture market and general perceptions about CEO, the Deputy Chairman, the SID and the largely set by example from the top.
Chairs of both the Audit and Remuneration 2012 25 Corporate Governance Report continued The Chairman has overall responsibility for Committees throughout the year.
It carries out Developing Markets now LAPAC and ensuring that the Directors receive the a formal and rigorous internal evaluation of its RUMEA : arising from the 2011 evaluation information and training required for their roles performance, its Committees and of individual was a need to better understand the and Directors are encouraged to take individual Directors with a view to improving the Companys China strategy for the next responsibility for identifying their needs and are effectiveness of the Board and its Committees decade.
Presentations on LAPAC took place expected to take the necessary steps to ensure and RBs overall performance.
during the year with specific attention on that they are adequately informed about RB China.
The 2013 offsite Board and strategy As disclosed in the 2011 Annual Report, it was and their responsibilities as Directors.
The Board meetings will take place in China, allowing the Boards intention to undertake its 2012 is confident that all its members have the for a more in-depth focus.
performance evaluation with support from an knowledge, ability and experience to perform external facilitator.
In the end it was decided Investor Relations: a presentation on the functions required of a director of a that this was not appropriate for the Company investor-related issues was delivered by a listed company.
for the 2012 evaluation due to the recent member of the investor community at a During the year, the Company became subject change in CFO and various other activities Board dinner which gave Board members to an FSA enquiry which has not concluded as undertaken by the Company.
additional insight into Company issues that at the date of this Annual Report.
There had were of interest to the investor community 2012 Evaluation: Although an externally been an inadvertent breach of the Listing Rules and also provided Directors with an facilitated evaluation was not undertaken, the LR when the granting of security during 2010 opportunity to ask questions and gain a Board is assured that the internal performance over shares held by the CEO when he was an better understanding of issues that may evaluation of the Board and its Committees Executive Committee member and a person impact the Company.
undertaken during 2012 was detailed, rigorous discharging managerial responsibilities PDMR and effective.
The process commenced with an Exposure of RB management below the as defined by the Disclosure and Transparency email from the Company Secretary to all Executive Committee to the Board: all Rules DTR was not undertaken in accordance Directors inviting their comments on the members of the Executive Committee had an with the requirements of the LR and the DTR.
The responses opportunity to present to the Board during The relevant shares were registered for the received were reviewed by the Chairman and the year.
Additionally seven members of the Companys dividend reinvestment plan DRIP used to develop a framework for the debate at Top40 and another seven colleagues from and received DRIP shares for the September the evaluation meeting.
The range of topics was the Top400 delivered presentations to either 2011 and May 2012 dividends automatically distilled into the following key topics: the Audit Committee or the Board during into the pledged shares account.
PDMR disposed of Company shares without the Corporate strategy: the focus was on more appropriate disclosures being made.
The pre-planning for the strategy meetings Product category management: the EVP, Company has since taken steps to tighten its including understanding managements key Category Development, Heather Allen, disclosure controls and procedures to ensure strategic focus which could be shared with presented to the Board during the year and that all relevant PDMRs remain aware of their the Board well in advance of the formal one of the Non-Executive Directors, Richard obligations under the LR and the DTR.
The annual strategy session: Cousins, spent a day with the Category Company has also established an internal Development organisation learning more Investor relations: additional clarity on the Disclosure Committee to assist them in ensuring about RB brands and markets.
Companys investor relations strategy: compliance with relevant regulations.
These outcomes and actions will also feed Risk management: it was recognised B.
5: INFORMATION AND SUPPORT into any externally facilitated evaluation carried that there was better risk control and All members of the Board receive timely reports out in 2013 or 2014 and will aid benchmarking reporting generally: on items arising at meetings of the Board and the measurement of progress against enabling due consideration of the items in Advance papers to the Board: more prior years.
Directors unable to comprehensive papers in certain areas The evaluations of the Board Committees were attend a particular meeting during the year had and ensuring that significant issues are undertaken with the use of detailed internally the opportunity to review and raise any issues not presented to the Board without generated questionnaires which included a on the relevant briefing papers.
Board members prior notification: section for additional comments.
The scores and also have access to a dedicated online team Offsite Board meeting: taking steps to make additional comments were collated for room containing relevant Company information the most of these meetings and using them subsequent discussions.
including all Board and Committee papers.
as opportunities for the Board to meet The evaluation of the Chairmans performance is Each Director has access to the advice and Top400 executives in less formal settings.
undertaken by the SID with input from his services of the Company Secretary and a Possibility of increased Non-Executive Director fellow Non-Executive Directors and the CEO and procedure exists for Directors to take availability during the week of the offsite CFO.
The Chairman evaluates each Directors independent professional advice at the Board meeting: performance through one-to-one discussions Companys expense in furtherance of Time management: it was acknowledged that with other Directors.
the Board has a limited number of meetings Committee also reviews the performance of the Company Secretary annually and there was discussion on Executive Directors and other members of the The Company Secretary ensures that the whether there were opportunities to ensure Executive Committee.
Company complies with all applicable rules, that Non-Executive Directors time was being B.
7: DIRECTORS RE-ELECTION regulations and obligations governing the used in the best possible way: and In accordance with the Code recommendations Companys operations and is responsible for People and succession: ensuring continued all the Directors will submit themselves for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are Non-Executive Director exposure to Top400 re-election election at the 2013 AGM.
She advises the Board on corporate executives, providing more details to all Director has provided assurance that he or she governance matters.
All Directors have access non-Nomination Committee members remains committed to his or her role and can to the Company Secretary.
Her appointment on succession planning and mediumto dedicate the necessary amount of time to and removal are matters reserved to the Board.
long-term succession planning for attend to the Companys business.
the performance evaluation undertaken was rigorous and transparent to ensure that each Performance Evaluation Progress Update on Items from the 2011 Director remains able to undertake his or her The Board maintains an ongoing review of its Evaluation: Key actions from the 2011 Board duties.
Consequently, the Board recommends procedures and its effectiveness and those of its performance evaluation and progress made that all Shareholders vote for on each of the since then include: resolutions to re-elect elect the Directors at the 26 2012 Report of the Directors 2013 AGM.
The date each Director was The Board maintains an ongoing process for Operating Unit Controls each operating originally appointed to the Board is included in evaluating the system of internal control and unit maintains a system of internal control the biographical details on page 18. identifying and managing risk.
Management is and risk management which is appropriate to required to apply judgement in evaluating the its own business environment.
Such controls C: Accountability material risks RB faces in achieving its objectives, must be in accordance with Group policies C. 1: FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING in determining the risks that are considered and include management authorisation The Board is responsible for the integrity of RBs acceptable to bear, in assessing the likelihood of processes, to ensure that all commitments on consolidated and the Companys financial the risks concerned materialising, in identifying behalf of RB are entered into only after statements and recognises its responsibility to RBs ability to reduce the incidence and impact appropriate approval.
In particular, there is a present a balanced and understandable on the business of risks that do materialise and structured process for the appraisal and assessment of RBs position and prospects.
The in ensuring that the costs of operating particular authorisation of all material capital projects: Board is satisfied that the financial statements, controls are proportionate to the benefit.
and report to regulators and price-sensitive reports RBs control environment is supported by a Monitoring the effectiveness of the system present a balanced and understandable Code of Conduct, on which employees receive of internal control and risk management is assessment of RBs position and prospects.
training annually, and a range of policies on monitored regularly through a combination To assist with financial reporting and the corporate responsibility.
Other key elements of management review, self-assessment, preparation of consolidated financial within the internal control structure are independent review through quality statements, the finance function has in place a summarised as follows: assurance, environment, health & safety and series of accounting and Treasury policies, regulatory audits, as well as independent The Board and Management the Board practices and controls which are designed to internal and external audit.
The results of approves strategy and performs an advisory ensure the identification and communication of internal and external audit reviews are and supervisory role, with the day-to-day changes in accounting standards, and reported to and considered by the Audit management of the Company being reconciliation of core financial systems.
The Committee, and actions are taken to address undertaken by the CEO supported by the function consists of consolidation and financial any significant control matters identified.
The CEO and other accounting teams and technical support which Audit Committee also approves annual Executive Committee members have clearly comprises senior finance managers who review internal audit plans and is responsible for communicated RBs vision, strategy, operating external technical developments and accounting performing the ongoing review of the system model, values and business objectives across policy issues.
In addition, the finance function of internal control and risk management on the Group: maintains an up-to-date Group Finance Policy behalf of the Board.
Manual and sets formal requirements with Organisational Structure during the year The Board confirms that reviews of the business unit finance functions which specify ended 31 December 2012, RB operated three appropriateness and effectiveness of the system the standard reports and approvals required area organisations covering ENA, LAPAC of internal control and risk management by RB.
RUMEA together with RB Pharmaceuticals throughout the financial year and up to the and Food, and centralised functions covering Throughout the year RB has had in place an date of approval of the Annual Report and category development, supply, sales, finance ongoing process for evaluating the financial Accounts have been satisfactorily completed in and legal, information services and human reporting process and the preparation of compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code.
resources, as well as an independent internal consolidated accounts.
The basis for the audit function.
Throughout the organisation, The Company is compliant with DTR 7.2.
6 and preparation of consolidated accounts is as set the achievement of business objectives and the information is included in the section on out on page 43 under Accounting Policies.
the establishment of appropriate risk Takeover Directive on pages 19 to 20.
The Board agrees an engagement letter with management and internal control systems C. 3: AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS the Auditors in respect of the full and half-year and processes are embedded in the Audit Committee results and the Auditors statement on their responsibilities of line managers: The Audit Committee comprises three work and reporting responsibilities is set out on Budgeting there is an annual planning Independent Non-Executive Directors: Kenneth page 38. process whereby operating budgets for the Hydon, Chairman since 16 November 2006, Information on RBs business model and strategy following financial year are prepared and are whom the Board has deemed independent for generating and preserving longer term reviewed by the Board.
Long-term business notwithstanding he has served nine years on growth and delivering on the Companys stated plans are also prepared and are reviewed by the Board, Andr Lacroix and Warren Tucker.
objectives is set out in pages 2 to 8 of the Chief the Board on an annual basis: Kenneth Hydon, FCMA, FCCA, FCT, was CFO Executives Statement.
of Vodafone Group plc until July 2005 and Management Reporting there is a Warren Tucker is CFO of Cobham plc.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities on comprehensive system of management Therefore, they both have relevant and recent page 30 details the Directors responsibility for reporting.
The financial performance of financial experience.
RBs Auditors, Head of the financial statements and for disclosing operating units and RB as a whole are Internal Audit and CFO attend meetings and relevant audit information to the Auditors.
monitored against budget on a monthly basis have regular private meetings with and direct and are updated by periodic forecasts.
Area The going concern statement required by the access to the Committee.
The Chairman and and functional executives also perform Listing Rules and the Code is set out in the CEO attended some of the meetings and other regular business reviews with their Statement of Directors Responsibilities on senior management attend Audit Committee management teams, which incorporate an page 30. meetings by invitation.
assessment of key risks and opportunities: C. 2: RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL The Audit Committee: Risk Management as part of the ongoing CONTROL Monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of risk and control process, operating units The Board has established a risk and control the system of internal control: review and evaluate risks to the achievement structure designed to manage the achievement of business objectives and the Board reviews Reviews compliance procedures and RBs of business objectives.
It has overall those significant risks which might impact on overall risk framework including the Groups responsibility for RBs system of internal control the achievement of corporate objectives.
whistleblowing arrangements : and for the effectiveness of such system.
The Mitigating controls, together with any system complies with the Turnbull guidance on Considers reports on Internal Audits necessary actions, are identified and Internal Control and Risk Management and activities, significant legal claims and implemented.
A summary of the most provides reasonable, but not absolute, regulatory issues: significant risks faced by RB is included in the assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Business Review on pages 13 to 15: 2012 27 Corporate Governance Report continued Reviews the interim and full year financial works well and the Committee remains D: Remuneration statements before submission to the satisfied with their independence and D. 1: THE LEVEL AND COMPONENT OF full Board: effectiveness.
It has, accordingly, not considered REMUNERATION it necessary to require the firm to tender for the Makes recommendations to the Board The Companys compensation plan is audit work, although this is kept under review regarding the Auditors and their terms performance-driven and designed to foster RBs annually.
It is a requirement that the audit of appointment: innovative and entrepreneurial culture.
partner responsible for audit is rotated every Following the 1999 merger of Reckitt & Reviews and monitors the Auditors five years and the current lead audit partner, Colman plc and Benckiser N. V. the Board set independence and services supplied and the who has been in place since 2008, will out to create a truly multinational Company objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit accordingly rotate off in 2013.
There are no and, as a result of this approach, people of process: and contractual obligations restricting the many nationalities work with local citizens in Companys choice of Auditors.
Considers operational risk and control each location in which RB operates.
presentations from management covering RB has a formal policy in place to safeguard The level and composition of remuneration assurance providers, geographical and Auditor independence.
The Audit Committee across RB is designed to facilitate global mobility functional areas.
and the CFO keep the independence and and diversity.
A similar employment contract is objectivity of the Auditors under review.
The During 2012 the Audit Committee: used and compensation rules apply equally for Committee reviews the nature and level of Met four times: RBs Top400 managers in all markets.
Salary non-audit services undertaken by the Auditors ranges are based on global benchmarking and Considered detailed risk and control reviews during the year to satisfy itself that there is no RBs annual cash bonus structure, long-term for specific selected Group major risks: impact on their independence.
The Board incentives and other benefits are offered across recognises that in certain circumstances the Reviewed local country and regional risk and operating companies.
nature of the advice required may make it control status during the overseas Board visit: more timely and cost effective to appoint the Details on the Companys remuneration strategy Agreed an approach to deliver independent Auditors who already have a good and the Directors compensation arrangements programme assurance for the SAP and understanding of RB.
are set out in the Directors Remuneration business transformation programme and Report on pages 31 to 37.
During the year, the Company exceeded its monitored delivery of that assurance: published policy that, on an annual basis, D. 2: REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AND Approved updates to the Finance Policy non-audit fees are not in excess of 50% of the PROCEDURE Manual and the Treasury policies: Groups external audit fees on an aggregate The Remuneration Committee chaired by Judith basis.
The Board would like to emphasise that Sprieser comprises four members.
As at August Monitored the progress against the this is not a change in policy.
The breach was a 2012, Judith Sprieser had served nine years relaunched whistleblowing policy: consequence of seeking PwCs tax advice as part on the Board.
Nonetheless, pursuant to Code Reviewed and updated the policy for of the Groups organisational and operational provision B.
1.1, the Board has determined non-audit fees to the Auditors and monitored restructuring necessary to implement RBs new that, in its opinion, Judith Sprieser remains its application: strategy announced earlier in the year to refocus independent.
Graham Mackay and Richard the business into three key areas health, Cousins are considered independent under the Reviewed and carefully considered the hygiene and home.
The fourth member of the Committee justification for exceeding the Companys is the Chairman, Adrian Bellamy, who was policy on non-audit fees in 2012: Prior to awarding the contract to PwC, a independent on appointment but has served detailed tender process was undertaken with Reviewed the Audit Committee terms of on the Board for more than nine years.
the big four accountancy firms followed by a reference and the annual Standing Agenda: series of meetings and information exchanges.
The Committees purpose is to assist the Reviewed the effectiveness of, and approved PwC was selected for this one off project Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibility recommendations for changes to, the Internal because its detailed knowledge of the Group by ensuring that remuneration policy and Audit function: made its proposal ultimately the most cost practices reward fairly and responsibly: are effective and time efficient for the Company.
linked to corporate and individual performance: Approved the terms of engagement and The project is closely related to work PwC has and take account of the generally accepted reviewed the strategy, scope and effectiveness already undertaken for the Company in other principles of good governance.
On behalf of of the Auditors: key areas.
The PwC tax advisory team is the Board and subject to Board approval, the Reviewed and discussed with the Auditors independent and separate from its tax audit Committee primarily: the findings of their work during the year: team which undertakes the annual audit for Sets and regularly reviews the Companys the Company.
Received regular technical updates to keep overall remuneration strategy: abreast of changes in financial reporting and The work on the project is continuing and the Determines the general remuneration policy governance matters: and Company does not, at this time, anticipate for senior executives: and exceeding its stated policy on non-audit fees Reviewed the performance of the Audit for 2013.
In respect of the Chairman, the Executive Committee itself and agreed actions for Directors and members of the Executive improvement.
Following a recommendation by the Audit Committee sets, reviews and approves: Committee and in accordance with section 489 Auditors and Auditor Independence of the 2006 Act, a resolution proposing the Remuneration policies, including annual  LLP PwC and its re-appointment of PwC as the Companys bonuses and long-term incentives: predecessor firms have been the sole auditors Auditors will be put to the Shareholders at the of RB since 2000, the year after the merger of Individual remuneration and compensation AGM.
RB does not indemnify its Auditors.
Reckitt & Colman plc and Benckiser N. V. in arrangements: 1999, and the Companys Auditors since its The Auditors report to the Audit Committee on Individual benefits including pension and formation in 2007.
At the time of the merger, the actions they take to comply with superannuation arrangements: PwC were the auditors of Reckitt & Colman plc professional and regulatory requirements and and Deloitte LLP were the auditors of Benckiser with best practice designed to ensure their Terms and conditions of employment N. V. Post merger, the Audit Committee independence from RB, including periodic including the Executive Directors undertook a review and subsequently selected rotation of the audit engagement partners.
service agreement: PwC as auditor for the Group for the December Details of non-audit services are set out in 2000 year end.
In the opinion of the Audit note 4 on page 50.
Committee, the relationship with the Auditors 28 2012 Participation in any of the Companys shares, investors views and analysts reports on E. 2: THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING bonus and long-term incentive plans: and the industry and on the Company specifically.
The AGM provides all Shareholders with an Feedback on presentations and roadshow opportunity to vote on the resolutions put to The targets for any of the Companys meetings with institutional investors is them.
The AGM is used as the main performance-related bonus and long-term presented to the Directors following twiceopportunity for the Directors to meet directly incentive plans.
yearly roadshows in Europe and North America.
It is attended by the The Chairman of the Board together with the The investor relations programme includes: Directors and all Shareholders present are given CEO and CFO are responsible for evaluating and the opportunity to ask questions of the Formal presentations of full year and making recommendations to the Board on the Chairman, the Chairs of Board Committees and interim results and quarterly interim remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
management statements: Members of the Remuneration Committee and All resolutions are voted on by way of poll so Regular meetings between institutional any person attending its meetings do not that each share has one vote.
The results of the investors and senior management to ensure participate in any discussion or decision on their poll are released to the Stock Exchange and that the investor community receives a own remuneration.
published on the website shortly after the AGM.
balanced and complete view of RBs Detailed information on the Committee and performance, the issues faced by RB and any its activities is set out in the Directors issue of concern to the investors: Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 37.
Responding to enquiries from institutional Shareholders through the Companys investor relations team and from retail Shareholders E: Relations with Shareholders through the Company Secretary: and E. 1: RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS A section dedicated to Shareholders on the The Board is committed to effective Companys website.
communication between the Company and its Shareholders.
The Executive Directors and the The Chairman is available to discuss governance Director of Investor Relations meet regularly and strategy with major Shareholders should with institutional Shareholders and financial such a dialogue be requested.
During the year analysts in Europe and North America to discuss the Chairman liaised with Shareholders and matters relating to the Companys business reported on these meetings to the Directors.
The Board The Company believes that it is important to receives regular monthly reports from the CEO make key executives available, along with the which include updates on share price SID, if required, to discuss matters of concern developments, major buyers and sellers of with its Shareholders.
