Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 73 Report of the Nominations Committee This report has been prepared by the joint Nominations Composition of the Boards Committee of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and has During the year, the main focus of the Committee continued to be: been approved by the respective Boards.
succession planning in relation to the planned retirement of two long-serving Non-Executive Directors, Mark Elliott and Sir David Role of the Committee Reid: the appointment of a new Chief Financial officer to succeed The principal role of the Committee is to provide assistance to the Mark Armour who retired in December 2012: and progress against Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Reed Elseviers aspirational goals regarding the percentage of Group plc by identifying individuals qualied to become Directors women on its Boards which were announced in 2011. and recommending to the Boards the appointment of such The Committee has established a formal, rigorous and individuals.
transparent procedure for the recruitment of candidates to the The responsibilities of the Committee are set out in written terms Boards and recommendations by the Committee are made on of reference available at www.
com and include: the basis of a candidates merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the benets of diversity, including gender.
i to develop and agree the desired prole for potential In addition, the Committee seeks to ensure that the Boards and candidates for board membership: their committees comprise an appropriate balance of skills, ii in consultation with external search consultants, agree the experience, independence and knowledge of Reed Elseviers specication for the recruitment of new directors which businesses, and diversity.
provides a formal and transparent procedure for the The Committee retained recruitment consultants specialising selection and appointment of new directors to the Boards: in senior and non-executive appointments to carry out searches iii to recommend to the Boards the appointment of candidates for two new Non-Executive Directors and a new Chief Financial subject, where appropriate, to the approval of shareholders officer.
The Committee worked closely with the consultants of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV: and following a rigorous process of assessment and interviews, recommended to the Boards the appointment of David Brennan iv to recommend to the Boards directors to serve on Board and Linda Sanford as Non-Executive Directors and Duncan Committees, having regard to the criteria for service on each Palmer as Chief Financial officer.
When David Brennans committee as set out in the terms of reference for such appointment was postponed indefinitely for personal reasons, committees, and to recommend members to serve as the the Committee continued the search and recommended to the Chair of those committees: and Boards, in February 2013, that Dr Wolfhart Hauser be proposed v to make recommendations to the Boards in relation to the for election at the Annual General Meetings in April 2013. possible re-appointment of Directors at the Annual General In September 2011, in response to the publication of the Davies Meetings of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
Review, Women on Boards, the Boards announced their aspirational goals that by 2013 the Reed Elsevier NV Combined Committee membership Board would be comprised of 30% women and the Reed Elsevier The Committee comprises only Non-Executive Directors, and is PLC Board would be comprised of 22% women.
At that time, chaired by Anthony Habgood.
The other members are Mark Elliott, September 2011, the Reed Elsevier NV Combined Board was Lisa Hook, Sir David Reid and Ben van der Veer.
The Committee comprised of 20% women and the Reed Elsevier PLC Board was met five times during the year.
During 2012, the Committee reviewed progress against these goals and following the Annual General Meetings to be held in April 2013 the Boards expect to have met these goals.
The Committee will continue to monitor the composition of the Board against the Boards aspirational goals while taking into account the benets of diversity more generally.
Details of Reed Elseviers approach to diversity and inclusion in its workforce can be found in the Corporate Responsibility report on pages 39 to 48.
