GOVERNANCE 64 EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM Executive Leadership Team Senior Business Executives Mark Kelsey Mike Rusbridge Mike Walsh Ron Mobed CEO LexisNexis CEO Reed Exhibitions CEO LexisNexis CEO Elsevier Risk Solutions Legal & Professional CEO Reed Business Information Corporate Executives Kumsal Bayazit Ian Fraser Henry Udow Youngsuk YS Chi Chief Strategy Global Human Chief Legal officer Director of Corporate officer Resources Director & Company Secretary Affairs Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 65 Chairmans introduction to corporate governance In March 2012, we confirmed our plans to continue the progressive Effective corporate governance refreshing of the Boards since Mark Elliott and Sir David Reid willretire after ten years service following the conclusion of isfundamental to the long-term theAnnual General Meetings in April 2013.
Following a search process using an external consultant, Linda Sanford joined the sustainability and success of Boards in December 2012.
She has over 35 years experience as aglobal executive with IBM, particularly in leveraging technology ReedElseviers operations.
InFebruary 2013, we announced that Wolfhart Hauser will join theBoards subject to The Boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Reed Elsevier PLC, shareholder approval at our Annual General Meetings in April.
andthe Combined Board of Reed Elsevier NV the Boards are He has more than 30 years service in executive and non-executive committed to high standards of corporate governance and positions in international technology and services businesses haveput in place procedures which provide accountability, and a background in science and medicine.
transparency, probity and a focus on the sustainable success ofReed Elsevier over the longer term.
Diversity Reed Elsevier recognises the need for, and desirability of, This report is intended to provide shareholders with a clear view diversity on its Boards.
Diversity in the prole of board members ofReed Elseviers corporate governance arrangements and how provides the necessary range of perspectives.
In 2011, we Reed Elsevier complied with the applicable corporate governance announced aspirational goals regarding the percentage of women codes of best practice during the year.
Statements with regard to we aim to have on the Boards by 2013.
I am pleased to report compliance with corporate governance codes and in particular thatwe have made good progress and that following the Annual the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 are set out on page 66.
General Meetings in April 2013, we expect to have met our During the year, the Financial Reporting Council published a aspirational goals.
Further details are set out in the Nominations revised UK Corporate Governance Code which will apply to Committee Report on page 73.
Information about Reed Elseviers ReedElsevier from 1 January 2013.
We expect to adopt the approach to diversity and inclusion in its workforce can be found revised Code in full during 2013. in the Corporate Responsibility report on page 44.
The Boards 2012 was an important year for the evolution of the Reed Elsevier Taking into account the recent changes to the composition of the Boards.
As well as recruiting a new Chief Financial officer, we Boards and the outcome of this years Board evaluation process confirmed our plans to continue the progressive refreshing of the details of which are set out on page 67, I believe that the Boards Boards with further appointments of Non-Executive Directors.
and their committees have an appropriate balance of skills, Additionally, we continued progress on Board diversity, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity to ensure monitoring our position against the goals that we announced that they can discharge their duties effectively and the corporate in2011.
governance in place is appropriate to support the continued growth and success of Reed Elsevier.
Board succession Following a rigorous search process, Duncan Palmer joined Reed Anthony Habgood Elsevier in August and succeeded Mark Armour as Chief Financial Chairman officer in November.
Duncan Palmer joined Reed Elsevier from 27 February 2013 Owens Corning where he was chief financial officer and senior vice president from 2007 having previously held various senior finance positions within Royal Dutch Shell for 20 years in the UK, the Netherlands and the US.
Percentage of the Areas of significant skills and expertise of the Non-Executive Directors on the Boards Non-Executive Directors Executive board experience in a large international listed company 56 Knowledge of corporate governance issues for listed companies 100 Operational experience in Reed Elseviers product markets 44 Operational experience in Reed Elseviers main geographical markets 89 Marketing, customer relations 89 Operational experience with telecommunication computer technology, electronic publishing 67 Management of human resources, selection and remuneration of executives 100 Corporate social responsibility 100 Legal matters 78 Banking, tax and corporate finance 44 Financial and organisational audit 67 Corporate strategy and organisation 100
