Corporate governance The Board is committed to the high standards of corporate Frequency of meetings governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code There were nine main Board meetings during 2012. formerly the Combined Code published in May 2010 the Code The number of meetings of the Board and Committees and for financial periods beginning after 29 June 2010.
The new edition individual attendance by the Directors are shown below.
of the Code was published in September 2012 and applies to reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012 the Audit Nomination Remuneration Revised Code.
Although not yet officially applicable to the Main Board Committee Committee Committee Company, the Board considers it good practice for the Company Total meetings 9 6 5 5 to comply with the Revised Code as far as is practical for a Douglas Luxembourg company to do so.
The Code and the Revised Code Sutherland 9 5 are both available at www.
The Board is accountable to Mark Dixon 9 the Companys shareholders and this report describes how the Board applied the principles of good governance.
Dominique Yates 9 The Board Lance Browne 8 6 5 5 At 31 December 2012, the Board of Directors was made up of six members comprising the Chairman, two Executive Directors and Elmar Heggen 9 6 5 5 three Non-Executive Directors.
Biographical details of the Directors Alex Sulkowski 9 6 5 5 are set out on page 21.
Matters reserved for the Board The Board is mindful of the benefits of strength and diversity in The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its the Board.
Our aim is to have a Board which is reflective of the decision, to ensure that no one individual has unfettered powers broad range of skills, backgrounds and experience necessary to of decision.
These include: properly serve our shareholders.
We have pursued this objective by engaging Board members whom, while several have a financial approval of regulatory announcements including the interim background, have had broad executive responsibilities and bring and annual financial statements: very different and complementary personal experiences and terms of reference and membership of the Board and approaches to matters including the evaluation of opportunities its Committees: and management of risks.
Our Board members represent four different nationalities and five countries of residence.
Along with changes to the Groups capital structure: their international operational experience, they also bring a depth changes to the Groups management and control structure: of working knowledge covering multiple industries, business models, corporate cultures, organisational models, functional areas capital investment in excess of 5m: and and business issues.
The Nomination Committees decisions are material contracts annual value in excess of 5m.
based on merit while reflecting our intent to increase diversity, including gender diversity.
The Board considers that its current Minutes are taken of all Board discussions and decisions and all balance ensures that no individual or group dominates its decision Directors are encouraged to request inclusion of any unresolved making process.
concerns that they may have in the Board minutes.
Role of the Board Roles of Board members The primary role of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman leadership and to review the overall strategic development and the Chief Executive.
The Board approves the corporate plan and the The Chairman annual budget and reviews performance against targets at every Douglas Sutherland is responsible for leadership of the Board, meeting.
Capable management and relevant technical expertise setting its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
He ensures in the business are critical to the implementation of the strategy.
effective communication with shareholders and that the Board Individuals with strategic responsibilities are invited to present to is aware of the views of major shareholders.
He facilitates and discuss with the Board on a rotating periodic basis.
Through both the contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and the Audit Committee, the Directors ensure the integrity of financial constructive relations between the Executive Directors and information and the effectiveness of financial controls and the Non-Executive Directors.
internal control and risk management system.
The Board has The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, is responsible delegated authority to the Remuneration Committee to set the for ensuring all Directors are properly briefed on issues arising remuneration policy for Directors and senior management.
The at Board meetings and that they have full and timely access Nomination Committee recommends the appointment of Board to relevant information.
Directors and has responsibility for succession planning at Board level.
The various Board Committees the Committees have The Chairman is considered by the Board to be independent authority to make decisions in their areas of expertise.
24 24 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Chief Executive Internal control and risk systems review the effectiveness of the Mark Dixon is responsible for formulating strategy and for its Groups internal controls and risk management systems.
delivery once agreed by the Board.
He creates a framework Internal audit monitor and review the annual internal audit of strategy, values, organisation and objectives to ensure the programme ensuring that the internal audit function is adequately successful delivery of key targets, and allocates decision making resourced and free from management restrictions, review and and responsibilities accordingly.
monitor responses to the findings and recommendations of Non-Executive Directors the internal auditors.
The Non-Executive Directors each bring their own senior level of External audit advise the Board on the appointment, experience and objectivity to the Board.
The independent counsel reappointment, remuneration and removal of the brought to the Group by the Non-Executive Directors enhances external auditors.
the overall decision making of the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial three year term are subject to election Employee concerns review the Companys arrangements by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting AGM under which employees may in confidence raise any concerns after their appointment.
regarding possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee ensures that these arrangements Company Secretary allow proportionate and independent investigation and The Company Secretary, Tim Regan, is responsible for advising the appropriate follow-up action.
Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters and for ensuring that appropriate minutes are taken of all Board meetings The Audit Committee also meets independently with the and discussions.
The appointment and removal of the Company Companys auditors and with the Group Head of Internal Audit Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
and Risk Management to informally discuss matters of interest.
Board Committees External auditors The Board has delegated certain of its governance responsibilities KPMG Luxembourg S. r. l. were the Companys auditors for the to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
For 2013, the Audit Committee The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the Board has recommended to the Board that a resolution to reappoint Committees and minutes of meetings are circulated to all KPMG Luxembourg S. r. l. as the Companys auditors be Board members.
The Audit Committee will continue to keep under review the independence and objectivity of the external The terms of reference of the Committees have been documented auditors, the effectiveness of the audit process and the rotation and approved by the Board and are available on the Companys of the lead audit partner.
A brief summary of the members, activities and terms of reference of the Committees is The scope and extent of non-audit work undertaken by the provided below.
Companys external auditors is monitored by and, above certain thresholds, requires prior approval from the Audit Committee to Audit Committee ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair Elmar Heggen Chairman their independence or objectivity.
During the year, KPMG performed Lance Browne due diligence work on certain acquisitions.
KPMG is prohibited Alex Sulkowski from providing services that would be considered to jeopardise The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee the responsibility their independence such as book keeping services, valuations for applying an effective system of internal control and compliance, and system design.
accurate external financial reporting, fulfilling its obligations Remuneration Committee under law and the Code: and managing the relationship with Alex Sulkowski Chairman the Companys external auditors.
The Committee consists entirely Lance Browne of Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are considered by the Elmar Heggen Board to be independent in character and judgement, and are Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities during the competent in accounting and or auditing.
year are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 41.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year.
At the request of the Chairman, the external auditors, the Executive Nomination Committee Directors, the Company Secretary and the Group Head of Internal Lance Browne Chairman Elmar Heggen Audit and Risk Management attend each meeting.
Alex Sulkowski Summary terms of reference: Douglas Sutherland Financial reporting provide support to the Board by monitoring The Nomination Committee meets as required during the year the integrity of financial reporting and ensuring that the published to consider matters delegated to it under its terms of reference.
financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements Board effectiveness, performance and leadership were discussed relating to the Companys financial performance comply fully with informally by the Board as a whole.
the relevant statutes and accounting standards.
com investors 25 Corporate Governance Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Summary terms of reference: to reduce their costs by sub-letting space.
These factors could result in reduced revenue for the Group as the prices it is able Board appointment and composition to regularly review to charge customers would be reduced.
the structure, size and composition of the Board and make recommendations on the role and nomination of Directors for The Group has taken a number of actions to mitigate this risk: appointment and re-appointment to the Board for the purpose the Group has entered into performance-based leases with of ensuring a balanced and diverse Board in respect of skills, landlords where rent costs vary with revenues earned by knowledge and experience.
the centre: Board Committees to make recommendations to the Board building lease contracts include break clauses at periodic in relation to the suitability of candidates for membership of the intervals to allow the Group to exit leases should they become Audit and Remuneration Committees.
In cities with a number of centres this allows the Group removal of Directors are matters reserved for the full Board.
to stagger leases such that an orderly reduction in exposure Board effectiveness to assess the role of Chairman and Chief to the location may be facilitated: and Executive and make appropriate recommendations to the Board.
the profile of clients in a centre is continually reviewed to avoid Board performance to assist the Chairman with the annual undue reliance on a particular client or clients in a particular performance evaluation to assess the performance and industry group.
effectiveness of the overall Board and individual Directors.
Additionally, in the event of a downturn, the Group has a number Leadership to remain fully informed about strategic issues and of options for mitigating losses, for example by closing centres at commercial matters affecting the Company and to keep under lease break points.
review the leadership needs of the organisation to enable it to The Groups strategy also focuses its growth into emerging markets compete effectively.
that will reduce the proportion of the Groups revenue generated Principal risks and uncertainties from the USA and Europe over time and provide better protection There are a number of risks and uncertainties which could have to the Group from an economic downturn in a single market.
an impact on the Groups long-term performance.
The Group Exposure to movements in property markets has a risk management structure in place designed to identify, A number of the Groups lease contracts contain market rent review manage and mitigate business risks.
This means that the costs of these leases may vary as a evaluation is an essential part of the annual planning, budgeting result of external movements in the property market.
In particular, and forecasting cycle.
in the UK, lease contracts typically contain upward only rent The Directors have identified the following principal risks and reviews which means that should open market rents decrease, uncertainties affecting the Company.
These do not constitute then Regus could be exposed to paying higher than market rent all of the risks facing the Group.
Economic downturn in significant markets If the Group is unable to pass on increased rent costs to customers The Group has a significant proportion of its centres in the due to local property market conditions then this could result Americas predominantly the USA and Europe.
An economic in reduced profitability or operating losses in these markets.
downturn in these markets could adversely affect the Groups Equally, for Group lease contracts without market rent review operating revenues thereby reducing operating performance or, clauses, the Group may benefit from paying below market rent in an extreme downturn, resulting in operating losses.
in a market with increasing open market rents.
This may allow the Generally, the terms on which the Group earns revenues from Group to improve profitability if the movements in open market customers and pays its suppliers principally landlords are rents are passed on to clients.
matched to reduce working capital needs.
However, a reduction The length of the Groups leases or the period after which the Group in revenues, with no immediate decline in the cost base, could can exercise any break option in the leases is usually significantly result in significant funding shortfalls in the business.
Any funding longer than the duration of the Groups contracts with its customers.
shortfall may require the Group to seek external funding or sell If demand falls, the Group may be unable to increase or maintain assets in the longer term.
occupancy or price levels and if revenue declines the Group may be In addition, competition may increase as a result of landlords unable to reduce the lease cost base.
Additional costs could be offering surplus space at discounted prices and companies seeking incurred if the Group disposes of unprofitable centres.
26 26 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Changes in assumptions underlying the carrying value of certain Given the continued volatility in exchange rates since January 2009 Group assets could result in impairment the Board has approved a policy which allows the Group to hedge, Regus completes a review of the carrying value of its assets subject to strict limits, the rates at which overseas earnings are annually to assess whether those carrying values can be supported translated.
This will enable the Group to have more certainty over by the net present value of future cash flows derived from such the sterling value of these earnings.
This review examines the continued appropriateness of the Group Structure assumptions in respect of which the carrying values of certain of the As a Jersey-incorporated company having its place of central Groups assets are based.
This includes an assessment of discount administration head office in Luxembourg and being tax resident rates and long-term growth rates, and timing and quantum of future in Luxembourg, the Company is required to comply with both capital expenditure.
Due to the Groups substantial carrying value Jersey law and Luxembourg law, where applicable.
In addition, of goodwill under IFRS, the revision of any of these assumptions to the Companys ordinary shares are listed on the Official List of the reflect current or anticipated changes in operations or the financial UK Listing Authority and admitted to trading on the main market of condition of the Group could lead to an impairment in the carrying the London Stock Exchange.
It is possible that conflicts may arise value of certain assets in the Group.
While impairment does not between the obligations of the Company under the laws of each of impact reported cash flows, it does result in a non-cash charge in these jurisdictions or between the applicable laws and the Listing the consolidated income statement and thus no assurance can be Rules.
If an irreconcilable conflict were to occur then the Company given that any future impairments would not affect the Companys may not be able to maintain its status as a company tax resident reported distributable reserves and therefore its ability to make in Luxembourg.
distributions to its shareholders or repurchase its shares.
The Group manages the risk that a significant tax liability could The Groups geographic expansion may increase exposure to arise by taking appropriate advice, both in carrying out the Group unpredictable economic, political and legal risks reorganisation and on an ongoing basis.
In addition, the Group Political, economic and legal systems in emerging markets have believes that under current laws and regulations the risk of historically been less predictable than in countries with more irreconcilable conflicts between current laws and regulations developed institutional structures.
As the Group increasingly enters impacting Regus plc is also low.
into emerging markets, the value of the Groups investments may All shareholders are paid dividends directly from Regus plc be adversely affected by political, economic and legal developments SA plc.
All dividend payments are made without deduction which are beyond the Groups control.
of Luxembourg withholding tax, regardless of the residence Exposure to movements in exchange rates of the recipient.
The Group has significant overseas operations whose businesses In general terms, UK resident shareholders receiving dividends are generally conducted in the currency of the country in which they from plc should be taxed in the same way as if they had received a operate.
The principal exposures of the Group are to the US dollar dividend from a UK company.
Tax outcomes do, however, depend and the euro with approximately 35% of the Groups revenues on the specific circumstances of shareholders and any shareholder being attributable to the US dollar and 15% to the euro.
in doubt about their tax position including, in particular, UK resident Given that transactions generally take place in the functional but non-UK-domiciled individuals who have elected to be taxed on currency of Group companies, the Groups exposure to a remittance basis should consult their own professional adviser.
transactional foreign exchange risk is limited.
However, the Centrally managed applications and systems translation into sterling of overseas profits and net assets will be All of the Groups systems and applications are housed in a central affected by prevailing exchange rates.
In the event that either the data centre.
Should the data centre be impacted as a result of US dollar or euro were to significantly depreciate or appreciate circumstances outside of the Groups control there could be an against sterling, this would have an adverse or beneficial impact adverse impact on the Groups operations and therefore its financial to the Groups reported performance and position respectively.
This risk is managed through a detailed service arrangement with our external data centre provider which incorporates The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, together with an analysis of the exposure to such risks, are set out appropriate back-up procedures and controls.
Wherever possible, the Group attempts Internal controls to create natural hedges against currency exposures through The Board has ultimate responsibility for maintaining a matching income and expenses, and assets and liabilities, in the sound system of internal control and for periodically reviewing same currency.
com investors 27 Corporate Governance Corporate governance Corporate governance continued In accordance with the revised guidance set out in the Turnbull policies and procedure manuals and guidelines are readily Report Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the accessible through the Groups intranet site: and Combined Code, an ongoing process has been established for operational audit and self-certification tools which require identifying, managing and evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
individual centre managers to confirm their adherence to Group The Groups system of internal controls is designed to: policies and procedures.
facilitate the effective and efficient response to risks which might To underpin the effectiveness of controls, it is the Groups policy affect the achievement of the Groups objectives: to recruit and develop appropriately skilled management and staff safeguard assets from inappropriate use or from loss or fraud: of high calibre, integrity and with appropriate disciplines.
help ensure the quality of internal and external financial Whistle-blowing policy reporting: and The Company has an externally hosted whistle-blowing channel EthicsPoint, which is available to all employees via email, and help ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
on the Companys Intranet website.
The aim of the policy is to No system of internal control can provide absolute assurance encourage all employees, regardless of seniority, to bring matters against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups system of that cause them concern to the attention of the Audit Committee.
controls helps to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure The Business Assurance Director, where appropriate in consultation to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable with the executive management team, decides on the appropriate assurance that potential problems will normally be prevented or method and level of investigation.
The Audit Committee is notified will be detected in a timely manner for appropriate action.
of all material disclosures made and receives reports on the results Strategy and risk management of investigations and actions taken.
The Audit Committee has the The Board conducts regular reviews of the Groups strategic power to request further information, conduct its own inquiries direction.
Country and regional strategic objectives, quarterly plans or order additional action as it sees fit.
and performance targets for 2013 have been set by the Executive Control processes Directors and are regularly reviewed by the Board in the context The Company has had procedures in place throughout the year of the Groups overall objectives.
and up to 5 March 2013, the date of approval of this Annual Report, There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and which accord with the Revised Internal Control Guidance for managing the risks faced by the Group.
Major business risks Directors in the Code.
These include the following: and their financial implications are appraised by the responsible the Board normally meets with regional executives every six executives as a part of the budget process and are endorsed by months to carry out a wide-ranging review of Group and regional regional management.
Key risks are reported to the Board and the financial performance, business development opportunities, Audit Committee.
The appropriateness of controls is considered by Group infrastructure and general Group management issues: the executives, having regard to cost, benefit, materiality and the likelihood of risks crystallising.
Key risks and actions to mitigate the annual budget process is driven from senior management those risks are regularly considered by the Board and are formally meetings.
Budgets are prepared at a detailed level by business reviewed and approved by the Board annually.
centre and roll-up at country and regional level.
The Executive Directors review regional budgets to ensure consistency with Control environment regional strategic objectives and the final budget is reviewed and High standards of behaviour are demanded from staff at all levels in approved by the Board.
The approved budget forms the basis the Group.
The following procedures are in place to support this: of business management throughout the year: a clearly defined organisation structure with established operational reports and financial reports are prepared and responsibilities: distributed to the Board on a monthly basis.
Actual results are the induction process is used to educate new team members on reviewed against budget and forecast, and explanations are the standards required from them in their role, including business received for all material movements: ethics and compliance, regulations and internal policies: key policies and control procedures including finance, all team members are provided with a copy of the Team Member operations, and health and safety are documented in manuals Handbook which contains detailed guidance on employee having Group-wide application.
These are available to all staff policies and the standards of behaviour required of staff: via the Groups intranet system: 28 28 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 the Board has formal procedures in place for the review and annual internal control self-assessment and management approval of investment and acquisition projects.
The Group certification exercise covering the effectiveness of financial and Investment Committee comprising the Executive Directors operational controls.
This is based on a comprehensive internal reviews all investments prior to approval by the Board.
control questionnaire collated and reviewed by Internal Audit.
Additionally the form and content of investment proposals Results and any necessary mitigating action plans are presented is standardised to facilitate the review process: to senior management and the Board.
the Group has clearly delegated authority limits with regard to Succession the approval of transactions: and Our efforts to increase our management capacity and capabilities through continuing development of our people and supplemented numerous reports are generated from the Groups sales and by the hiring of experienced professionals not only supports our operating systems on a daily, weekly and monthly basis to ability to execute our growth strategy but also enables us to provide management at all levels with performance data for their address succession in a more robust way throughout the Group.
area of responsibility which helps them to focus on operational Beginning in 2013, succession planning discussions are an integral issues that may require their input.
part of our business planning and review processes.
Information and communications processes With a view to the future development of the Group as well The senior management team are integrally involved in the business as the desire to continue to enhance diversity and succession and to this extent regularly discuss and address issues and planning for Board roles, we plan to increase the size of the opportunities with regional and functional teams.
Formal business Board over time.
The Nomination Committee has implemented review meetings, chaired by Mark Dixon, are held with the regional an ongoing programme of engagement with highly qualified teams and functional heads on a monthly basis.
potential Non-Executive Directors of varied backgrounds and Regular staff communications include general information on the gender to support this process.
business from senior management as well as operational guidance Other matters on changes in policies and procedures.
Board performance evaluation Sales staff and operational management periodically attend A formal external evaluation of the performance of the Board regional sales or management conferences at which information was carried out during the year by an independent leadership on operational issues is shared.
Delegates present the key consultancy, Panthea, with experience in conducting such reviews.
messages to employees who did not attend the event.
The evaluation was conducted over a three-month period and consisted of a series of one-to-one interviews, a questionnaire Monitoring effectiveness and attendance by the evaluator at a Board meeting.
The following key mechanisms were available to the Board at various times during the year in the conduct of its review The external evaluation results were reviewed by the Board and of internal controls: Nomination Committee and are being addressed in our efforts to continuously improve the processes and effectiveness of the review of the Groups monthly management accounts which Board.
No reportable matters were noted by the evaluation and contain detailed analysis of financial performance for the Group we continue to have full confidence in the Boards members and each of the Groups geographic reporting segments: and processes.
an ongoing process of review, through Board meetings, senior Training and resources management meetings and divisional reviews as well as other Appropriate training is made available for all new Directors to assist management meetings, for the formal identification of significant them in the discharge of their responsibilities.
Training is provided operational risks and mitigating control processes: on an ongoing basis to meet particular needs with the emphasis delivery of centrally coordinated assurance programme by the on governance and accounting developments.
Internal Audit department that includes key business risk areas.
During the year the Company Secretary, Tim Regan, provided The findings and recommendations of each review are reported updates to the Board on relevant governance matters, whilst the to management and the Audit Committee to support the Board Audit Committee regularly considers new accounting developments in its role of ensuring a sound control environment: through presentations from management, internal audit and the monthly reporting on the development of the profitability of external auditors.
The Board programme includes presentations new centres to allow appraisal of the effectiveness of investment from management in addition to the Executive Directors which, together with site visits, increase the Non-Executive Directors activity: and understanding of the business and sector.
com investors 29 Corporate Governance Corporate governance Corporate governance continued All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Non-Executive Directors are also subject to the re-election Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board requirements and serve the Company under letters of appointment, procedures, corporate governance and regulatory compliance are which have an initial three-year term.
Should a Director request independent Compliance statement professional advice to carry out his duties, such advice is available The Company has complied with the provisions set out in section E to him at the Companys expense.
of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2012, with Directors and officers insurance the exception of the following: The Groups insurance programme is reviewed annually and Provision E. 1.1 The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director appropriate insurance cover is obtained to protect the Directors Lance Browne does not have regular meetings with major and senior management in the event of a claim being brought external shareholders.
against any of them in their capacity as Directors and officers of the Company.
The Board considers it appropriate for the Chairman to be the main conduit with investors, rather than the Senior Independent Dialogue with shareholders Non-Executive Director.
The Chairman participates in investor The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, with meetings and makes himself available for questions, in person, at the half year results typically announced in August or September the time of major announcements.
The Chairman regularly updates and the preliminary final results announced normally in March.
There the Board and particularly the Senior Independent Non-Executive are programmes for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer Director on the results of his meetings and the opinions of investors.
to give presentations of these results to the Companys institutional On this basis, the Board considers that the Senior Independent investors, analysts and media in London and other key locations.
Non-Executive Director is able to gain full awareness of the issues The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer maintain a close and concerns of major shareholders.
Notwithstanding this policy, dialogue with institutional investors on the Companys performance, all Directors have a standing invitation to participate in meetings governance, plans and objectives.
These meetings also serve to with investors.
develop an ongoing understanding of the views and any concerns of the Companys major shareholders.
The Non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the views of the institutional shareholders and the Chairman is available to meet with these shareholders on request.
The principal communication with private shareholders is through the Annual Report, the half year results and the AGM.
The Company continues to engage the services of Brunswick as its investor relations adviser.
AGM The AGM each year is held in May in Luxembourg and is attended, other than in exceptional circumstances, by all members of the Board.
In addition to the formal business of the meeting, there is normally a trading update and shareholders are invited to ask questions and are also given the opportunity to meet the Directors informally afterwards.
Notice of the AGM together with any related documents are required to be mailed to shareholders at least 30 clear days before the meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each issue.
The voting in respect of all resolutions to be put to the AGM is conducted by means of a poll vote.
The level of proxy votes cast and the balance for and against each resolution, together with the level of abstentions, if any, are announced to the meeting following voting on a poll.
Financial and other information is made available on the Companys website: www.
Re-election of the Board As required by the Code, all Directors submit themselves for re-election by shareholders annually and Directors appointed during the period since the last AGM are required to seek election at the next AGM under the Companys articles of association.
30 30 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
