Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Directors corporate governance report The role of Chairman and Chief Executive is a combined role and A.
Leadership thus contrary to the recommendations of the Code.
Sir David The role of the Board McMurtry has held this position since the Company became The Board comprises five executive and four non-executive aquoted company and he, together with John Deer, holds directors.
The directors holding ofce at the date of this report themajority of the voting interests in the Company.
The Board and short biographical details are given on pages 12 and 13. considers that there is still a clear division of responsibilities Fullbiographical details are available on www.
atboard level to ensure an appropriate balance of power and TheCompany maintains liability insurance for its directors authority.
The Board and Executive Board meet on a regular andofcers as disclosed in the Other statutory and basis to make decisions of signicance to the two business .
segments and review management actions.
It is intended that this The Board focuses on formulation of strategy, management of combined role will continue for so long as Sir David McMurtry effective business controls and review of business performance.
remains on the Board and he and John Deer hold a majority of There is a formal schedule of matters specically reserved to it the voting interests in the Company.
These include the approval of annual and interim The Chairman has no other significant commitments as regards results and interim management statements, company and employment or directorships of other companies.
business acquisitions and disposals, major capital expenditure, borrowings, material agreements, director and company Non-executive directors secretary appointments and removals, any patent-related The senior independent director is Bill Whiteley and he is available disputeand other material litigation, forecasts and major to discuss concerns with shareholders should the normal productdevelopment projects.
channels of the Chairman and Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director fail to resolve such concerns, or for which The Board meets as often as is necessary to discharge its duties suchcontact is inappropriate.
The non-executive directors meet effectively.
In the financial year ended 30th June 2012, the Board without the executive directors present to discuss performance met ten times and the directors attendance record at Board and other matters.
andcommittee meetings is set out at the end of this report.
Inaddition, the non-executive directors met a number of times B.
Effectiveness without executive directors present.
Composition of the Board The Board has three formally constituted committees, the Audit All the non-executive directors are considered by the Board committee, the Remuneration committee and the Nomination tobeindependent in character and judgement and there are committee.
norelationships or circumstances that are likely to affect a non-executive directors judgement.
Terry Garthwaite and There is an executive management committee known as DavidSnowden, appointed to the Board on 1st July 2003, have theExecutive Board that is responsible for the executive completed nine years as directors of the Company and therefore management of the Groups businesses.
It is chaired by the will not be seeking re-election at the forthcoming AGM on Chairman and includes the executive directors of Renishaw plc 18thOctober 2012.
It is also noted that Terry Garthwaite and and other senior management representatives responsible for BillWhiteley are both on the Board of Brammer plc.
This situation two core product lines of the Group and the North and Central has been reviewed and the Board has concluded that there American market.
The Executive Board usually meets for two isnoimpact on either of them so far as their independence days on a monthly basis and considers the performance and isconcerned.
strategic direction of the metrology business on one day and on the other, the healthcare business and other matters of general The Code recommends that at least half the Board, excluding the importance to the Group.
In addition, there is an executive sales Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
and marketing committee known as the International Sales The Board does not comply with this requirement and, as noted andMarketing Board which meets quarterly to determine the below, a recruitment process is currently being undertaken.
Groupssales and marketing policies and strategies and review Itisnoted that during the 2013 financial year, Terry Garthwaite the activities.
This committee is chaired by the Deputy Chairman and David Snowden will not seek re-election to the Board.
andincludes the Assistant Chief Executive and Group Finance Consideration will be given to recruiting a further non-executive Director plus the managing directors of the five largest sales director when a review of the skills and experience of the Board territories and the Director of Sales Development.
has been undertaken in light of the recent and forthcoming changes to board personnel.
A framework of delegated authorities is in place that maps outthestructure of delegation below board level and includes thematters reserved to the Executive Board and the level of authorities given to management below the Executive Board.
The Board has adopted a conict of interests policy, putting inplace procedures for the disclosure and review of any conicts and potential conicts and authorisation by the Board if felt appropriate.
Authorisations granted and the terms of such arereviewed on an annual basis.
New disclosures are made where applicable.
