50 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Audit Committee Report Audit Committee Report The integrity of financial results and the effectiveness of internal control systems are critical to the way the business is managed for shareholders.
The committees principal activities in 2012 were to monitor corporate controls and risk management processes and compliance, to review and approve financial statements and to review auditor performance and effectiveness.
with the external audit partner, the Chief Financial officer and the head of risk and internal audit.
Membership The following sections report on the activities of the committee Duncan Tatton-Brown during the year and I believe will give shareholders assurance that Chairman the control environment in the Company is being appropriately monitored and reviewed.
Peter Bamford William Rucker Governance to 14 March 2013 Committee members are all independent non-executive directors.
Other attendees Duncan Tatton-Brown and William Rucker are considered by the The Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, external board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
auditors, director of risk and internal audit, divisional finance directors by rotation, company secretary and periodically: the group financial Biographical information on all committee members is set out controller, the director of tax and other senior finance executives.
The committee did not nd it necessary to seek external advice during the year, other than through its usual dialogue with the auditors.
Chairmans introduction As chairman of the audit committee my responsibility is to ensure The board is required by the Code to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and that the committee conducts a rigorous and effective process for prospects.
In relation to this requirement, reference is made to monitoring and reviewing: the statement of directors responsibilities for preparing the the integrity of the financial statements, including formal Financial Statements set out on page 59. announcements and significant financial reporting judgements Code Principle: C. 1 on which the financial statements and related announcements The board should present a balanced and understandable assessment are based of the Companys position and prospects.
the internal control and risk management framework Responsibilities the effectiveness of the internal audit function The audit committee assists the board in its oversight and the relationship with the external auditors and the effectiveness monitoring of financial reporting, risk management and internal of their processes, together with issues relating to their controls.
The committees focus is to review and challenge in appointment and remuneration these areas both with management and with internal and external During the year the Company has continued to focus on improving auditors.
the basic financial controls, processes and procedures across The committee is authorised to: the group.
The year has shown improvements in the control environment and the committee has reviewed data from both the monitor the integrity of the annual and half-year results and internal audit function and from controls testing carried out by interim management statements, including a review of the the external auditors which supports this view.
significant financial reporting judgements contained in them review the Companys internal financial controls and internal A programme of basic controls testing continues to be a major feature control and risk management systems of the internal audit and external controls testing programmes.
monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal The on-going programme of systems and process improvements audit function and standardisation, which is part of the Companys operational establish and oversee the Companys relationship with the excellence agenda and reported elsewhere in the annual report, external auditors, including the monitoring of their independence will continue to contribute to an improved control environment in and effectiveness the group.
monitor matters raised pursuant to the Companys I am satisfied that the audit committee was provided with good whistleblowing arrangements quality and timely material to allow proper consideration to be given to the committees responsibilities.
The committee has The committee reports to the board on its activities and minutes of met with the external and internal auditors without management meetings and material considered by the committee is shared with present on a number of occasions and I have a regular dialogue the board.
Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Audit Committee Report 51 Despite the scale of the change programmes there have been Terms of reference relatively few control breakdowns during 2012, none of which was The terms of reference of the committee are available at a consequence of the transformation agenda.
com or from the company secretary committee received reports on control breakdowns in a business The committees terms of reference were reviewed by the in Australia, where state regulated pay rates had not been properly committee during 2012.
They take full account of the Smith applied, and in Indonesia, where breaches of local law and Guidance on the role of audit committees regulation had been identied.
In both cases the committee has The committees terms of reference will be reviewed by the been kept informed of corrective actions.
board during 2013 in the context of the boards compliance Internal audit with the revised UK Corporate Governance Code taking effect The internal audit function focused its work in 2012 on a review in 2013 see accountability and audit on page 56 of basic business processes, undertaking 20 business reviews across the group.
The processes reviewed during the year Activities covered: financial controls, including credit debt and management, The committees calendar highlighting the activities carried out at cost saving delivery and payroll related issues: IT general controls each of the meetings in the year is set out in this report on page 52. and services: project management execution: anti-corruption In 2012, the committee met five times and the main areas of focus policy and code of conduct effectiveness and post-acquisition are described below.
The internal audit reviews together with their findings and recommendations were reported to the committee and form part Public reporting of the boards overall review of the effectiveness of the system The committee monitors the integrity of the financial statements of internal controls across the group.
The Internal Audit Charter of the Company and formal announcements relating to the was revised during the year and approved by the committee.
Companys financial performance, including reviewing significant financial reporting judgements made by management.
One of the The committee believes that the changes in structure and purposes of this process is to ensure that the financial statements approach initiated in 2011 have demonstrably resulted in an and related narrative present a balanced and understandable improved assurance process during 2012. statement of the groups position.
The committee reviews halfyearly and quarterly trading updates on a similar basis.
Auditor The Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, attends all meetings The committee also monitors the process leading up to the of the committee and meets with the committee without executive preparation of financial statements, including the arrangements management present.
The main engagement with the committee the Company has in place for disclosing all relevant audit in 2012 has been over the review and publication of annual and information to the auditors.
The committee considers that it has an effective working relationship with the external audit Internal control and risk team.
As noted on page 52, the committee formally reviews the The Companys approach to managing risk and ensuring an effectiveness of the external auditors and is satisfied with their adequate internal control environment is in place and maintained performance.
is provided on pages 27 to 30 and a board statement on internal control and risk is on page 53.
Non-audit services The committee has also considered the circumstances in which Monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control processes within the auditor is engaged to provide services other than audit or the Company is particularly important in an environment where a audit-related services, which might bear upon the on-going significant amount of business change is underway to harmonise independence of the external auditor.
core processes and drive organic growth through the pursuit of operational excellence, much of which is led by IT.
This is described The board has a standing policy on the provision of non-audit in Transforming the Business section on pages 12 and 13. or audit-related services by the Companys auditor which can be found at www.
com The committee receives regular reports from the Chief Financial officer and the director of risk and internal audit on financial The committee accepts that certain work of a non-audit nature is controls and process improvement programmes.
These include: best undertaken by the external auditor.
The committee reviews regularly the amount and nature of non-audit work performed by a report on the overall status of the control environment in the the auditor.
The Companys policy on non-audit services provides group including the results of testing clear guidance on the categories of non-audit work which may a report on identied areas of weakness in controls or may not be undertaken by the auditor and describes the action plans on control environment improvements circumstances when consent from the committee status updates on the implementation of action plans is required.
The value of these services is set out in Note 4 to the financial statements.
The committee also receives periodic reports from the divisional finance directors and in 2012 received an update on the control environment and other financial management issues in the Pest Control division.
52 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Audit Committee Report Audit Committee Report Audit committee calendar for 2012 February May November Auditor re-appointment review Control environment update and report on Pest Control division review of controls control incidents and business risk management Control environment update and report on control incidents Internal Audit Charter update and approval Human resources compliance review Disclosure of information to auditors First-quarter results and related input from Control environment update and report on review the auditors and a report on litigation and control incidents claims Review of board statement on internal Third-quarter results and related input control environment Group risk committee update from the auditors and report on litigation and claims Review of the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems Group risks review for consideration by the board Going concern liquidity review July Meeting with auditors without executives Financial statements for 2011 together present Control environment update and report on with audit report from KPMG control incidents Committee effectiveness review Business continuity processes update Meeting with auditors without executives Half-year results and related input from present December the auditors and report on litigation and Annual review of internal audit findings claims Internal audit plan for the following year External auditor effectiveness review Annual report structure and content for Audit strategy for the following year the following year Audit fees for the following year Terms of reference review and update on Group risk committee update regulatory guidance Code Principle: C. 2 The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
In addition, the views of the majority of the finance Group risk committee directors of the groups key subsidiaries are analysed through a The Chief Executive has established a group risk committee formal questionnaire.
under the chairmanship of the Chief Financial officer which includes senior functional executives with day-to-day The evaluation questionnaire was completed by 42 business units responsibility for the internal control environment covering and the UK Shared Service Centre as well as by central functions.
financial, HR and IT systems, legal and regulatory compliance The questionnaire covered: resources and expertise, audit as well as the director of risk and internal audit.
The group process effectiveness and the financial controls testing process.
risk committee supports the audit committee and executive The committee considered the detailed findings of the review management through: which included a number of detailed recommendations, none of which was material in the overall context of the group audit providing oversight of the framework for managing risk but was helpful in relation to improvements in the Companys throughout the group processes and those of the auditor.
providing oversight of the processes for reviewing the Taking all responses into account, the scoring mechanism effectiveness of the group risk management framework and demonstrated that the audit performance was effective and internal control systems at a statistically similar level to the previous year.
assisting the committee and the board over the assessment of the significant risks the group is willing to take Auditor re-appointment monitoring emerging risks The Companys audit services were last subject to a tender process in 2009 at which time KPMG Audit Plc replaced reviewing internal responsibility for appropriate mitigating  LLP as the groups auditor.
The strategies 2012 Code states that FTSE 350 companies should tender the provision of audit services at least every ten years or explain their Auditor effectiveness approach, if different.
As reported in the previous section, the The new Code 2012 encourages audit committees to include in Company is satisfied with the performance of the auditor and has the annual report an explanation of the process by which it has no immediate plans to undertake a further competitive tender for assessed the effectiveness of the external auditor.
The lead audit partner is not yet due to be subject already provides that the committee should review and monitor to rotation but will be retiring from the rm after completion of the the effectiveness of the audit process.
A new lead partner will be responsible for the 2013 The audit committee conducts an annual review of the external financial statements.
Resolutions will be put to shareholders at auditors effectiveness, drawing input from the Chief Financial the annual general meeting over the reappointment of KPMG officer, the director of risk and internal audit and senior finance Audit Plc and the setting of its fees.
Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Audit Committee Report 53 Committee effectiveness Anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy The committee conducted a review of its effectiveness using The group introduced an updated policy and related procedures the services of Lintstock, an independent external corporate on anti-bribery and anti-corruption in 2010.
Since its introduction, governance consultancy.
The review concluded that the over 3,000 colleagues have participated in online training to committee had received sufficient, reliable and timely information reinforce the policy and related procedures.
from management to enable it to fulll its responsibilities and During 2012 the groups Code of Conduct, which includes clear highlighted some areas to improve the effectiveness of the guidance on anti-bribery and anti-corruption matters, was committees oversight of the control environment and associated converted into a fully electronic format in 26 languages covering assurance processes.
all the groups material operations.
A communications programme and related material for workplace brieng has been prepared for Internal control and risk launch early in 2013 to further reinforce Code of Conduct issues The board has overall responsibility for maintaining sound including the anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy.
At the same systems of risk management and internal control and for time additional online training dealing with conicts of interest, reviewing their effectiveness.
The systems of internal control including interactive role-playing exercises simulating various and risk management have been developed to ensure compliance situations where colleagues are faced with fictitious scenarios, with the Code on internal control and risk management.
is being rolled out to management level colleagues to further The board has delegated day-to-day management of the reinforce the anti-corruption policy and procedures.
The training Company to the Chief Executive and through him to other will continue to be rolled out to other colleagues whose roles executive directors and senior executives who collectively make it particularly important for them to understand both the comprise the company executive board.
The system of risk local law and the groups anti-corruption policy and procedures.
management and internal control is designed to manage and The committee will continue to keep the anti-bribery and antimitigate risk rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve corruption policy and procedures under review to ensure that business objectives.
In pursuing business objectives, internal they are appropriate and effective.
controls and risk management can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement Whistleblowing Speak-up or loss.
There are policies and procedures in place for the reporting by Risks are considered in the context of long-term strategic and colleagues of suspected wrongdoing, for these suspicions to be emerging threats: medium-term challenges associated with formally investigated, and for the results of the investigation to be business change programmes: short-term risks triggered by reported to the whistleblower.
The committee receives a report changes in the external and regulatory environment: short-term on control incidents arising from whistleblowing as well as from risks in relation to internal operations and control.
The committee also reviews periodically processes which the Company has in place to ensure that in all territories The board gains confidence over the effectiveness of control there is an effective communication process through which processes through regular and transparent management colleagues are kept informed about the whistleblowing process.
reporting, the governance processes and from the external and internal assurance processes.
The board reviews the strategic The Speak-up process plays an important role in providing an risks facing the group and mitigating actions as part of its annual independent and condential channel of communication to report review of strategy and operational risks.
concerns such as fraud, breach of competition law, misreporting, breaches of Company policies etc..
Global freephone numbers The audit committee assists the board in meeting its obligations and a dedicated email address have been established.
In for maintaining sound systems of risk management and internal addition to workplace material for colleagues, multiple language control and a report on the committees activities in 2012 is information on the Speak-up programme is prominently provided in this report.
displayed on the group and individual business unit intranet sites.
The board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the The process is managed internally and a dedicated email account system of internal control for the year ended 31 December 2012 speak-up@rentokil-initial.
com has been created for colleagues and confirms that: to report concerns directly to the head of the group internal audit the group has an on-going process for identifying, evaluating function.
The Company has periodically reviewed alternative and managing the significant risks faced by the group mechanisms, including using third-party providers, but continues this process has been in place for the year under review and to be confident that its existing processes provide an effective up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts mechanism for the reporting and investigation of suspected wrongdoing.
the process is regularly reviewed by the board the process accords with the Code On behalf of the board, Code Principle: C. 3 Duncan Tatton-Brown The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering Chairman, Audit Committee how they should apply the corporate reporting and risk management and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the 14 March 2013 Companys auditor.
