38 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Governance Report Governance Report Good corporate governance means that from the board through each business unit we have the right decision making processes, controls and information to drive strategy and manage the business to deliver long term shareholder value.
The link between good governance and commercial success is undeniable and is a fundamental underpin to our operating framework.
General introduction We are looking to strengthen the gender and broader diversity The statement at the top of the page translates into practical among the senior management population who will represent the actions over: board members of the future and more information on diversity is contained within the report of the nominations committee on page How the board is led, how it operates and plans for succession 54 and in the Business Review on page 19. and how it monitors its effectiveness How the framework of controls and the management of risk Board evaluation forms part of the management process that ensures that the The board is committed to continually improving its effectiveness business meets its strategic and long term objectives that and each year the board participates in a formal evaluation of its together build value for shareholders collective and individual performance.
A summary of the How the culture of the business is primed to not only build evaluation and outcomes in 2012 is set out on page 47 and as a value but to do it in a responsible and sustainable manner result of this evaluation I continue to be satisfied that the board iseffective and operates well.
Overview This Governance Report, containing information on the board Code of Conduct and on how it operates, together with reports from the audit, We have further reinforced the effectiveness of the groups Code nominations and remuneration committees, aims to provide of Conduct and updated the material we use to communicate our shareholders with an understanding of the Companys governance core business principles to our colleagues.
We have developed structure and how the Company has applied the main principles a further suite of e-training modules geared to aid understanding and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the of ethical principles which will be rolled out early in 2013.
I am pleased to say that we continue to be substantially compliant with the Code.
Governance framework Each year the board reviews its corporate governance framework.
Board This includes a review of a number of corporate governance The success of the board depends on having the right balance of policies such as Matters Reserved for the Board and Terms of skills and experience around the boardroom table.
During the year Reference for each of the committees.
This review not only assists the board was pleased to appoint Angela Seymour-Jackson as a the board in being able to confirm its compliance with the Code non-executive director.
Angela brings valuable experience from but reects good practice and underpins the boards day-to-day having led the UK RAC business and also of the management activities.
ofchange in large service businesses.
The 2012 Code changes The board has regularly considered the balance of skills needed to We have reviewed the updated Code published in 2012 the new steer the group through the period of turnaround and transition Code that will apply to the Company next year.
We will report which has been underway since 2008.
The board is satisfied that formally on compliance with the new Code in this report next year, for the immediate future it is appropriate to retain as far as possible as well as providing remuneration reporting in line with the new the knowledge and experience of the groupstransformation regulatory regime.
journey of existing board members.
We were sorry to receive today the resignation of William Rucker, following a review of his current I hope that the information contained in this Governance Report commitments.
and elsewhere in the annual report helps shareholders to understand the challenges facing the Company and the way Diversity in which the Company is managed to meet these challenges.
The recommendations of Lord Davies last year to tackle the important issue of ensuring a stronger contribution by women in Company boardrooms were welcomed by the board and we have John McAdam issued a statement of our aspiration to have two female directors Chairman by 2015.
Diversity in its broader sense will be in the forefront of our thinking over future board appointments, particularly bearing in mind the increasing contribution of group revenues coming from outside the UK.
Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Governance Report 39 Board of Directors Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code The principal governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the London Stock Exchange are contained in the Code.
The version that applies to this report was issued in 2010.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and if you wish to review the full text it is available on its website at www.
Key We have included in this Governance Report references to the Codes main principles to assist in giving context to our compliance Executive directors 7 Non-executive directors with the Code.
at 14 March 2013 With only one exception, described in the next paragraph, the Company has complied throughout 2012 with the relevant main principles and detailed provisions set out in sections A to E of the Code.
With reference to the Code provision A.
3.1 the Chairman, John McAdam, was not considered to be independent on his appointment as a result of his participation in a one-off incentive arrangement approved by shareholders in 2008 in connection with the recruitment at that time of a new leadership team for thebusiness.
Board of directors Name Position Audit Nominations Renumeration Committee Committee Committee John McAdam Chairman Chairman Alan Brown Chief Executive Andy Ransom Executive director Jeremy Townsend Chief Financial Officer Peter Bamford Non-executive Director Richard Burrows Non-executive Director Alan Giles Non-executive Director Chairman Peter Long Senior Independent Director William Rucker Non-executive Director Angela Seymour-Jackson Non-executive Director Duncan Tatton-Brown Non-executive Director Chairman Resigned 14 March 2013 Member of Committee
