54 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Nominations Committee Report Nominations Committee Report The nominations committee assists the board by keeping its composition under review and reviewing succession planning to executive roles from amongst the senior management population as well as leading a rigorous and transparent process when making appointments to the board.
Time commitment and independence Membership All directors may serve on a number of other boards, provided that they can demonstrate that any such appointment will not John McAdam interfere with their time commitment to the Company and that they Chairman obtain the agreement of the chairman before proceeding.
This ensures that any potential conicts of interest are considered and Alan Giles addressed.
The major commitments of the directors are shown in Peter Long their biographical information on pages 40 and 41.
Currently nonSenior Independent Director executive directors are obliged to commit at least 20 days a year and the chairman is obliged to commit at least two days a week Duncan Tatton-Brown to the Company.
In practice non-executive board members commit in excess of their minimum contractual requirement.
Other attendees The committee reviews annually the process for considering and, The group HR director, company secretary if appropriate, authorising potential conicts of interest.
In addition when reviewing whether to recommend to the board the annual Introduction re-election of directors, the committee takes into account the The nominations committee provides a focus for the key task of results of the individual director and board evaluation process and ensuring that there are proper plans in place to ensure that the the formal resolutions of the board as a whole over the on-going board continues to comprise a group of individuals who work independence of non-executive directors.
effectively together as a team and who possess the right mix of Code Principle: B.
3 experience and talent to provide effective oversight and challenge to All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
This report provides a summary of its work in 2012.
7 directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject to Board composition continued satisfactory performance.
All of the non-executive directors were selected through externally facilitated recruitments.
Diversity The committee believes that there is merit in retaining on the If we dont draw from the widest pool of talent, we cant expect board, where possible, the existing range of skills, experience to secure the best talent, either for the board or for within the and particularly knowledge of the issues facing the group during business.
Optimum diversity enriches debate and problem-solving.
the turnaround of its operational and financial performance under Gender is an important element of diversity and the board the present executive leadership appointed in 2008.
At the end welcomed the impetus Lord Davies work has given to creating of 2011 and at the beginning of 2012 the committee oversaw a greater pool of high-quality female candidates for non-executive the process of identifying a non-executive director with relevant director roles.
The board has confirmed its aspiration to broaden service sector experience, resulting in the appointment of Angela gender diversity with the appointment of a second female director Seymour-Jackson on 5 March 2012. by 2015.
The process followed by the committee in relation to the The committee is mindful that in concluding that it is currently in appointment of Angela Seymour-Jackson, which is similar to that Rentokil Initials interests to retain current board membership, it is of previous appointments, commenced with the selection of an necessarily constrained to bring about additional diversity within external recruitment agency who are briefed on the skill sets and the board without increasing the size of the board unnecessarily.
candidate experience we were seeking to attract.
The recruitment We are mindful that as director rotation occurs we will be keen to consultants Egon Zehnder International EZI in the case of broaden the diversity of the board with greater representation from Angela Seymour-Jackson then prepare a candidate specication the groups major areas of operation outside the UK, for example for approval by the committee.
Thereafter, potential candidates are by seeking candidates from Continental Europe or North America.
identied, interviews take place with members of the committee and with executive management, following which the nominations committee forms a recommendation for consideration by the board.
2 There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board.
Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Nominations Committee Report 55 The gender breakdown for the UK business is 54% male and Nominations committee calendar for 2012 46% female, with 31% female at an operational management level or above.
The Company has worldwide data for operational Recurring managers and above 2,364 colleagues and of this group 30% Developed and considered plans for executive management are female.
development and succession at meetings in March, June, September and November Of the Companys graduate intake in 2012, 39% are female.
Further information on diversity can be found in the Corporate Responsibility report on page 32.
February Gender mix in the UK % Committee effectiveness review Director re-election independence review Report to shareholders Director rotation appointment of Angela Seymour-Jackson December Terms of reference review Conicts of interest approval procedure review Key Update on management development and succession 54% Male 17,984 46% Female 15,366 UK headcount 33,350 Committee effectiveness Global management population The committee has conducted a review of how it operates, which concluded that the committee operates effectively.
In 2013 the Work level Female Male Total % Female committee will have a continued focus on executive management Country and functional managers 616 1,311 1,927 32% succession as well as on continuing to address the diversity of Work level 3 board membership and to review board balance.
Country and functional managers 85 295 380 22% Work level 4 Senior executives Work level 5 5 43 48 10% On behalf of the board, Executive board Work level 6 1 7 8 13% John McAdam Total 707 1,656 2,363 30% Chairman, Nominations Committee 14 March 2013 Succession planning The majority of the committees time in 2012 has been spent on ensuring that the Company has in place clear and well prepared development plans for each of the executive roles reporting to the Chief Executive, and as part of that process identifying potential gaps that might need to be lled, either through training and development of colleagues or potentially through external recruitment.
The committee has utilised the services of EZI as part of this process.
The committee was also provided with material considered by the board as a whole in relation to plans and processes aimed at ensuring that the Company has senior executive resources with the necessary skills and experience to meet the Companys future needs, with a particular interest in long-term succession planning for roles on the company executive board and, ultimately, executive director roles.
