Audit Committee report This report sets out the work carried out by the Audit The Audit Committee also reviews the arrangements whereby Committee of the Board with reference to the UK Corporate staff of the company may, in confidence, raise concerns Governance Code and associated best practice guidance about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
matters to ensure there are proportionate and independent procedures in place for such an occurrence.
Audit Committee composition The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board and The Board as a whole reviews the risks facing the Group, comprises independent non-executive Directors of the and the processes on mitigating those risks, on a regular Company.
The Committee is chaired by Simon Cloke, who and formal basis.
The Board also reviews the work carried has significant financial experience gained as a Managing out by the Internal Audit function.
Director within HSBC Banks Corporate Sector Group.
Tony Hughes is also a member of the Committee.
The Code Audit Committee frequency recommends that audit committees be comprised of at least The Committee meets at least twice a year.
Two meetings of two independent non-executive directors in the case of the Committee were held during 2012 with full attendance.
smaller companies dened as those outside the FTSE 350 or at least three for companies with a premium listing, Audit Committee process such as The Restaurant Group plc.
During 2012 the Audit The Committee discharges its responsibilities, as dened in its Committee was comprised of two independent nonterms of reference, through Audit Committee meetings during executive directors.
the year, at which detailed reports are presented for review.
From time to time, the Committee commissions reports from The Board continues to review the composition of the Audit external advisers or Company management, either after Committee to ensure that it remains proportionate to the task consideration of the Companys major risks or in response to and provides sufficient scrutiny of risk management and developing issues.
The Committee has the opportunity to internal and external controls.
meet privately with the external auditor at least twice a year and liaises with Company management in considering areas The Committee regularly invites the external auditor, the for review.
Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive officer and the Group Finance Director to its meetings.
The Company During the year, the Committee considered the Secretary attends the meetings and is secretary to the following matters: Committee.
Discussions are held in private when appropriate.
interim and full year financial results.
As part of this review the Committee received reports from the external auditor Responsibilities of the Audit Committee on their audit of the Annual Report and Accounts and their The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in its review of the Interim Report: terms of reference and the principal matters are to: the scope and cost of the external audit: provide additional assurance regarding the integrity, the external auditors interim and full year reports: quality and reliability of financial information used by the non-audit work carried out by the external auditor in Board and in financial statements issued to shareholders accordance with the Committees policy to ensure the and the public: safeguard of audit independence: review the Companys internal procedures for control and the change in senior statutory audit partner following compliance with regard to financial reporting to satisfy the rotation from the audit of the previous incumbent itself that these are adequate and effective: who held ofce for five years: review the principles, policies and practices adopted in the the effectiveness of the external auditor and consideration preparation of the Groups financial statements to ensure of its reappointment: and they comply with statutory requirements and generally accepted accounting principles: the suitability of the Groups accounting policies and practices.
receive reports from the Groups external auditor concerning external announcements, in particular the The Companys public financial statements are reviewed by Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report: the Committee in advance of their consideration by the Board.
develop and oversee the Companys policy regarding the engagement of the external auditor, review the independence of the external auditor, review the provision of non-audit services provided by the external auditor and review remuneration paid to the external auditor: and consider any other matter that is brought to its attention by the Board or the external auditor.
34 Annual Report 2012 The Restaurant Group plc Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Independence of the external auditor The Committee has adopted a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit work which is in compliance with the Code.
The pre-approved services may be summarised as follows: audit related services, including work related to the annual Group financial statements audit, subsidiary audits and local statutory accounts: and certain specified tax services, including tax compliance, tax planning and tax advice.
Other work to be carried out by the external auditor is subject to review by the Audit Committee.
To full its responsibility regarding the independence of the external auditor, the Audit Committee takes into account the following: the external auditors plan for the current year, noting the role of the senior statutory audit partner who signs the audit report and who, in accordance with professional rules, has not held ofce for more than five years: the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit relationship: a report from the external auditor describing their arrangements to identify, report and manage any conicts of interest: the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor, in addition to its case-by-case approval of the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor: and the past service of the auditor which was first appointed in 2007.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the Audit Committee takes into account: the arrangements for ensuring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor: the external auditors fullment of the agreed audit plan: and the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in its handling of the key accounting and audit judgements.
Overview As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference.
The Committee has reviewed the independence and objectivity of Deloitte LLP as external auditor and recommends the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 May 2013.
On behalf of the Audit Committee, Simon Cloke 27 February 2013 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2012 35
