64 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report corporate governance good governance compliance Stuart Chambers This corporate governance report has been prepared in chairman accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code of June 2010 the Code.
The Code is published by theFinancial Reporting Council FRC and can be viewed on the www.
This report, being part of the directors report which includes the business review and the remuneration report, provides a summary of the Groups procedures for applying the principles of the Code and how such principles have been applied.
It is the boards view During 2012 we continued to deliver value to our that throughout the year 1 January to 31 December 2012 the shareholders and stakeholders and to strive to be a Company has complied with the Code.
results focused business that can be relied upon to The board has also considered, in advance of the commencement deliver onits commitments.
Manufacturing excellence date, the principles and provisions of the new UK Corporate is at theheart of the Company and the board clearly Governance Code the New Code published by the FRC in September 2012.
Where appropriate, disclosures have been recognises the importance of setting policies included to show how the principles and provisions of the New andprocedures to promote a strong sense of Code will be applied.
meaningfuland relevant governance in each areaofour operations.
It is imperative that the leadership Company is directed and guided tofollow good governance practices.
the role of the board There have been changes to the board: my own The boards primary role is to ensure the sustainable long term success of the Group.
This it does through the development, review appointment as chairman of the Company and and implementation of the Groups strategy and the leadership theappointment of Johanna Waterous as senior ofthe executive directors to whom the board delegates the day independent director.
Wolfgang Meusburger and today management of the business.
Noreen Doyle, two of our experienced non executive directors retired from the board during the year.
The evolution of the board brings new experience, The role of the board is to: t ensure the sustained long term success of the Group: influences and skills into the boardroom, and ensures t ensure that the boards obligations to its shareholders the continuing independence of the non executive are understood and met: board members.
We have an experienced and t approve the Groups strategy and ensure it takes into account the interests of the Groups customers, diverse board of directors upon whose support I rely suppliers, employees and the local communities in tolead the board to deliver our longterm strategy and which Rexam operates: the sustainable success of the Company.
The individual t maintain control over the Groups assets: t monitor changes to the Groups management and responsibilities as to how I, as chairman, lead the control structures: board and how Graham Chipchase, as chief t develop robust corporate governance and risk executive, manages the business are detailed in the management practices and procedures: and following pages of this report.
t establish high ethical standards of behaviour.
Your board remains committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance in a constantly The Company operates through the board and its main board evolving regulatory and governance environment.
committees, namely the audit and risk, the nomination and the remuneration committees.
The board evaluates the membership of its individual board committees on an annual basis and aims to ensure that its principal committees have different non executive directors astheir chairman.
The board committees are governed by terms of reference which detail the matters delegated to each committee andfor which they have authority to make decisions.
The terms of reference for the main committees can be found on the Rexamwebsite.
65 1 schedule of matters reserved for the board board membership 2012 meetings 2012 Board appointments and removals Sir Peter Ellwood chairman retired The Groups strategy, including the acquisition and disposal ofbusinesses 22 February 2012 2 2 Material financial decisions relating to equity, marketable securities, borrowing Stuart Chambers appointed 1 February 2012 and facilities, guarantees or indemnities and changes in accounting policies chairman from 23 February 2012 10 10 orpractice Graham Chipchase 11 11 All capital expenditure projects over 20m or any capital expenditure project Noreen Doyle retired 31 December 2012 11 11 which, regardless of the amount, does not meet the Groups financial criteria John Langston 11 11 Changes to the Groups management and control structures Wolfgang Meusburger retired 31 August 2012 7 7 Matters relating to the Companys share listing 2 Leo Oosterveer 10 11 The appointment and removal of principal advisors and externalauditors David Robbie 11 11 Jean-Pierre Rodier 11 11 The board does not routinely involve itself in day to day business matters but there is aformal schedule of matters that require the Johanna Waterous appointed 4 May 2012 8 8 boards specific approval, as well as those which can be delegated 1 Number of scheduled meetings attended maximum number of meetings that the tocommittees of the board or senior management.
Matters referred director could have attended.
to the board are considered by the board as a whole and no one 2 Leo Oosterveer was unable to attend one meeting of the board.
He received the agenda and the papers for that meeting and commented inadvance of it.
individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
the main areas dealt with by the board during 2012 best Strategy planning, implementation and monitoring performance Strategy for each business sector and focus on emerging markets Reports on the key issues affecting the business Sale of Personal Care Return of cash to shareholders and share consolidation Financial position of the Group and its performance against budget and forecast Long term debt refinancing proposals The Groups budget for 2013 andlong range plan to 2015 Reports on matters discussed at audit and risk committee meetings Review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control The Groups full year and half year results and dividend policy Annual general meeting UK pension plan valuation customer Reports on meetings with customers and suppliers expectations Major customer and supplier contracts Research, development and innovation in relation to the strategic agenda Board visit to customers operations in Austria operational Capital expenditure requests for additional lines and line conversions in Austria, Brazil, Italy and Czech Republic excellence Capital expenditure project for new can plant in Finland Benchmarking of aluminium for supply and costs Rexams sustainability programmes incorporating all aspects of corporate social responsibility The Group and business procedures and controls The Group risk management process, risk tracking and mitigation Presentations from business sectors Legal compliance, code of conduct and anti bribery and corruption policies Introduction of a electronic board portal for board administration and meetings Health and safety matters winning Reports on matters discussed at nomination committee and remuneration committee meetings organisation Appointment of a chairman and a senior independent director Board composition, diversity, development and succession planning Effectiveness of the board following the board evaluation Organisational restructuring Employee engagement survey Investor audit and feedback Board meeting and plant visits with the Beverage Can and Healthcare leadership teams in Austria and Germany financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 66 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report corporate governance chairman and chief executive The written job specifications for the roles of chairman and chief The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate with executive are reviewed by the nomination committee.
each having clearly defined responsibilities.
Nonetheless, they non executive directors maintain a close working relationship to ensure the integrity of the At the date of this report, Rexam has five non executive directors, boards decision making process and the successful delivery of including the chairman, whose role is to understand the business theGroups strategy.
and its markets, considerproposals on strategy and constructively Sir Peter Ellwood was chairman of the Company until his retirement challenge the management.
Collectively they hold or have held on 22 February 2012.
Stuart Chambers was appointed a non senior positions in industry and commerce, and contribute a wide executive director of the Company on 1 February 2012 and range of international experience and objective perspective to the succeeded Sir Peter as chairman on 23 February 2012.
Through the board committees, the non executive directors boardconsiders that Stuart Chambers was independent on his bring focus on governance and succession planning, internal appointment as non executive director and on his appointment controls, risk management and remuneration policies.
The chairman creates and manages a constructive Non executive directors serve the Company under letters of dialogue between the executive and non executive directors.
appointment which are generally for an initial three year term.
Heworks with the company secretary to ensure that appropriate Onappointment, an undertaking is requested confirming that matters are discussed during board meetings.
thenon executive director has sufficient time to fulfil his or her roleon the board.
John Langston was acting senior independent director from The main duties of the chairman are to: 24 November 2011 until Johanna Waterous, an experienced t lead the board: FTSE 100 non executive director, joined the board as senior t promote a culture of openness, challenge and debate: independent director on 4 May 2012.
The senior independent t review the effectiveness of the board: director, when necessary, supports the chairman and the other non t ensure that the board has the appropriate balance of executive directors on Company related matters.
She is available skills and experience and to give consideration to to talk to shareholders if they have any issues or concerns or if there succession planning: are any unresolved matters that shareholders believe should be t monitor progress towards the timely and effective brought to her attention.
There is a written job specification for this achievement and implementation of the objectives, role and it is reviewed annually by the nomination committee.
policies and strategies set by the board: t ensure compliance with Group policies concerning the The non executive directors meet withthe chairman to discuss, on aless formal basis, the Groups performance, governance, strategy conduct of the business: t provide guidance to the executive directors and senior and board and succession plans.
Theexecutive directors are not in management: and attendance at these meetings.
t safeguard the interests of shareholders.
directors indemnities and insurance cover The Company granted indemnities to Leo Oosterveer, Stuart Chambers and Johanna Waterous on their appointments to the board in 2011 and 2012.
The indemnities relate to certain losses Graham Chipchases primary objective as chief executive is and liabilities which they may incur in the course of their duties toenhance long term shareholder value.
andare in force as at the date of this report.
Insurance cover also remains in place to protect all directors and senior management in the event of aclaim being brought against them in their capacity The main duties of the chief executive are to: asdirectors orofficers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
t develop and manage the Group and its trading Similarindemnities will be offered to other directors.
performance within the authorities delegated by theboard: t develop and deliver the Groups strategic plan: t ensure the timely and effective implementation of the objectives, policies and strategies set by the board: t lead the executive management and ensure that management has the appropriate balance of skills andexperience: t oversee the Groups performance in safety, health andenvironmental matters: t be the primary interface with shareholders: and t promote high standards of ethical business conduct.
67 effectiveness length of service of non executive directors as at 20 February 2013 composition of the board O 02 years 3 Rexam has a board of directors with international business backgrounds and a range of diverseskills, experience and O 34 years 1 nationalities.
This diversity is invaluable in challenging and O 57 years 1 developing the Groups strategy and enables the board to govern a global business effectively.
The board works asa team but independence of thought and approach as well as constructive debate is encouraged.
Throughout 2012 and up to the date of this annual report the Company had a majority of independent non executive directors on the board.
The board is aware of the other commitments of the directors and considers that these commitments do not conflict with their non executive duties asdirectors of the Company.
A biography of each board balance as at 20 February 2013 member of theboard, including details of their business experience and other directorships, is given on pages62 and 63.
Stuart O 5 non executive directors Chambers other directorships changed during the year.
He was including the chairman already a non executive director of Tesco PLC and was appointed O 2 executive directors as a non executive director of Tesco Personal Finance PLC in July 2012 and retired as a non executive director of Smiths Group plc in the same month.
These changes do not conflict with his duties as chairman of the Company.
appointments to the board The appointment and replacement of directors is governed bytheCompanys articles of association, which may only beamended with shareholders approval in accordance with relevantlegislation.
Recommendations for appointments to the board arethe responsibility of the nomination committee which acts inaccordance with its terms of reference and the articles ofassociation.
the nomination committee The nomination committee comprises the chairman of the board and independent nonexecutive directors.
1 nomination committee membership 2012 meetings 2012 2 Sir Peter Ellwood committee chairman retired 2 2 2 Stuart Chambers committee chairman appointed 5 5 Noreen Doyle retired 31 December 2012 6 6 John Langston 6 6 Wolfgang Meusburger retired 31 August 2012 5 5 3 Leo Oosterveer 4 6 Jean-Pierre Rodier 6 6 Johanna Waterous appointed 4 May 2012 2 2 1 Number of scheduled meetings attended maximum number of meetings that the director could have attended.
2 Sir Peter Ellwood retired as nomination committee chairman on 22 February 2012.
StuartChambers was appointed as a member of the nomination committee on 20February2012 and succeeded Sir Peter as nomination committee chairman on 23February 2012.
3 Leo Oosterveer was unable to attend two meetings of the nomination committee, which were arranged at short notice.
He received the agenda and the papers for each meeting and was able to comment in advance of them.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 68 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report corporate governance Lord Davies February 2011 report into Women on Boards and the amendments to the Code subsequently proposed by the FRC The main responsibilities of the nomination have highlighted the importance of effective diversity policies in committeeare to: companies.
The Rexam board is aware of the benefits of all forms t review the structure, size and composition of the board of diversity, including gender diversity, when seeking new including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity, candidates for the board.
It is the boards intention to maintain including gender diversity : that at least 25% of the board are women.
Diversity is one of the t give full consideration to succession planning and ensure important factors in the specification given by the nomination that processes and planning are in place with regard committee to recruitment consultants when appointing new to both the board and senior executive appointments: directors.
The nomination committee ensures that, with the t identify and consider candidates on merit against assistance of executive recruitment consultants who adhere to the objective criteria and to make recommendations to Voluntary Code of Conduct, women candidates are considered theboard on appointments to the board and board routinely as part of the recruitment process to bring the most committees, and on the appointment of the company effective balance within the boardroom.
secretary: The Groups gender balance in senior management roles is t assess the time needed to fulfil the roles of chairman, currently 204 males, 85% and 37 females, 15% 2011: 86% male senior independent director and non executive director: and 14% female and, throughout the Group, 78% male and 22% t keep up to date about strategic issues and commercial female 2011: 76% male and 24% female.
The board reviews how changes affecting the Company and its markets: and diversity, in all forms, can be enhanced and will monitor and t assist the chairman with the annual board performance encourage the progress of women in senior positions through the evaluation process to assess the overall performance senior management team and across the Group.
The overriding and effectiveness of the board and each board objective is that all appointments will continue to be on merit and committee, and the individual performance that the most appropriate candidates are employed and the most ofdirectors.
effective employees are retained and promoted.
succession planning The nomination committee develops succession plans for the The performance and effectiveness of the nomination committee board, mindful of the need for progressive refreshment of the are reviewed as part of the main performance evaluation of the board, and a balance of skills, experience and diversity.
The boards responsibility for succession planning means that it is All board appointments are conducted through aformal, rigorous actively involved in the Groups talent processes to identify internal and transparent procedure between the nomination committee candidates for promotion and develop senior managers to give andthe board.
The nomination committee identifies through the them every opportunity to progress their careers.
The board management review process any internal people whose skills, periodically discusses current senior management positions within experience and contribution to the Group would addvalue to the the organisational structure and, led by the chief executive, board.
The nomination committee also works alongside executive considers potential successors to meet the Groups leadership recruitment consultants who adhere toa voluntary code of conduct needs over time.
to ensure that at least 30% of thecandidates on their initial list of candidates are women theVoluntary Code of Conduct and are independent in that they have no other connection with the The nomination committee considered the organisational Company.
The executive recruitment consultants evaluate and structure of the Group following completion of the sale of consider prospective external candidates and review internal candidates.
The nomination committee then meets with and the Personal Care business and discussed how the Group considers prospective candidates and, ifappropriate, could better organise its operations.
Operational headquarters in Dubai are being commissioned for the recommendations are made to the board for approval.
new Rexam Africa, Middle East and Asia AMEA sector Following Sir Peter Ellwoods decision to retire as chairman of the and will focus on the development of that region.
The Company, the nomination committee requested that external management of the new AMEA sector are internal executive recruitment consultants commence a search process for appointments who had been identified for promotion a new chairman.
The nomination committee considered the through the Groups talent processes.
The nomination candidates against the boards requirements and a recommendation committee also supported the restructuring of certain for the appointment of Stuart Chambers as chairman of the central functions and the appointment of a Group Company was made to the board for approval.
The same process operations director and a Group marketing director.
was followed for the appointment of a senior independent director, leading to the appointment of Johanna Waterous in May 2012.
69 development, information and support Members of the senior management team with responsibility for Formal board meetings are held during the year and the chairman theGroups businesses and those with corporate andservice centre and the company secretary ensure that, prior to each meeting, functional responsibilities make periodic presentations at board thedirectors receive accurate, clear and timely information meetings about their businesses, functions, performance, suppliers, whichhelps them to discharge theirduties.
In the months with no customers, markets and strategy.
scheduled board meeting, the directors receive the prior month The company secretary, who is appointed by the board, is and cumulative financial and operating information relating to responsible for ensuring compliance with board procedures.
The directors receive their board Thisincludes taking minutes of the board meetings and the papers through an electronic portal and are able to reference and recording of any concerns relating to the running of the Company mark the electronic papers in the board meeting.
or proposed actions arising therefrom that are expressed by All newly appointed directors participate in an internal induction adirector in a board meeting.
The company secretary is also programme that introduces the director to the Group and includes secretary to the audit and risk, nomination and remuneration visiting Group businesses.
This programme is tailored to each committees.
Under the direction of the chairman, he is responsible directors needs, taking into account individual qualifications and for the communication of relevant information between the board, experience.
If required, an overview of the role and responsibilities its committees and the senior management team.
He also advises of a director can be facilitated by an external consultant.
the board, through the chairman, on all governance and regulatory Thecompany secretary gives guidance on board procedures compliance matters.
Should a director reasonably request independent professional advice to carry out their duties, such advice is made available at the Companys expense.
StuartChambers met with functional heads and board performance evaluation representatives from the Groups advisors when he joined All directors, including the chairman, receive a formal annual Rexam in February 2012, following which he toured a performance evaluation to which all other members of the board number of the Groups businesses.
Johanna Waterous have the opportunity to contribute.
joined the board as senior independent director in May Achievement in 2012 of actions identified through the board performance 2012 and participated in an induction programme.
evaluation in 2011 Johanna met with functional and operational strategic planning Focus at board meetings and in the formal management for an overview of the corporate and strategy meetings on discussing strategy: business aspects of the Group, and visited the beverage the board was regularly updated on can business in Milton Keynes.
She also met with the achievement of strategic goals: progress Groups external auditors and representatives of the in the implementation of 2011 strategy Companys brokers and capital markets advisors.
Areas decisions including the sale of of governance and board related matters were discussed Personal Care with the company secretary.
risk management Continued regular and meaningful updates and discussion at board meetings: focused board awareness of The chairman is responsible for, and reviews and agrees with key risks and mitigation measures eachdirector their training and development needs.
Members non financial monitoring TheGroups balanced scorecard required ofthe committees receive specific updates on matters thatare further integration into the Groups relevant totheir role.
The chairman arranges for the board tovisit processes and measures atleast one oftheGroups business locations each year to ensure talent management and Senior independent director appointed in that the directors knowledge and familiarity with the Groups succession planning accordance with succession plans: review businesses are updated and maintained.
of central functions and appointments made: focus on executive leadership team board development Continued representation of independence, skills and expertise During 2012, the board visited the beverage can plant following board changes: progress in in Ludesch, Austria, and toured customers ingredients, effectiveness of board under leadership filling and manufacturing facilities in Austria.
The of the new chairman of the Company board also visited the Healthcare plant in Neuenburg, Germany.
customers and suppliers Development of the strategic importance of customer and supplier relationships to the business financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 70 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report corporate governance The boards 2012 performance evaluation was led by the chairman election and re-election of directors of the Company, supported by the senior independent director and To promote goodgovernance and in accordance with the Code, the company secretary.
Each director completed a questionnaire the board hasrecommended that all directors should submit scoring his or her response to statements focusing on specific themselves forelection or re-election on an annual basis.
board related matters and commenting more specifically directors in office as at the date of this report to be proposed for election asappropriate.
orre-election at the AGM 2013 Stuart Chambers chairman The chairman met with each director to discuss the board in Graham Chipchase chief executive general and the directors own contribution to the board.
The chief executive led the evaluation of the finance director.
The chairmen David Robbie finance director of the committees reviewed the performance evaluation of their John Langston non executive director respective committees.
Leo Oosterveer non executive director areas reviewed in board performance evaluation 2012 Jean-Pierre Rodier non executive director Board structure and contribution Customers and suppliers Johanna Waterous senior independent director Board meetings and administration Strategy Following a rigorous evaluation ofthe performance of each Risk management and corporate Talent management and responsibility succession planning director and on the recommendation ofthenomination committee the board is recommending that Johanna Waterous, who was appointed as a non executive director since the date of the last The 2012 board performance evaluation focused on the AGM, stand for election and that the other directors named above effectiveness of the board and its main committees and the results stand for re-election as appropriate at the AGM 2013. were presented to the board.
The directors shared the view that, following this comprehensive review, the board and its committees Johanna Waterous is considered by the board to be independent.
However, theboard has agreed Sheis being recommended for election as the board believes that that during 2013 thefollowing processes will be further developed her experience of the global retail world and as a FTSE 100 non and improved: executive director is an asset to the board and the Company.
process 2013 actions following 2012 evaluation Graham Chipchase is being recommended for re-election as the strategic planning To further refine the strategic review board believes his leadership and insight into the Group andits process and facilitate discussion on markets will help to develop Rexam and create shareholder value.
longer term strategic matters David Robbie is being recommended for re-election as the board risk management To develop the boards understanding of believes his strong financial and corporate finance experience and both customer and supplier focused his financial and strategic skills are important to the board and to supply chain risks the maintenance of tight financial controls.
non financial monitoring To improve the Groups balanced John Langston, Leo Oosterveer and Jean-Pierre Rodier are being scorecard reporting recommended for re-election as, inthe boards view, they remain talent management and To enable the board to further engage in independent and, following theirformal performance evaluation, succession planning talent strategies and contribute towards the chairman of the board has confirmed that they continue to be succession planning on a strategic level effective and demonstrate their commitment to the board.
board development To continue to develop the way in which On the recommendation of the nomination committee, Stuart the board works together as a unit, Chambers, who was considered independent on appointment as facilitating more challenging and chairman of the Company, is being recommended for re-election at opendebate the AGM 2013, as the board believes he continues to be effective customers and suppliers To continue to develop a strategic focus and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
on the Groups customers andsuppliers A biography of eachmember of theboard can befound on pages A full performance evaluation ofthe board and its committees 62 and 63. willcontinue to be conducted annually.
The Code recommends that an external performance evaluation be conducted every three years.
The last externally facilitated performance evaluation was in 2010 and it is expected that the next evaluation in 2013 will be conducted by an external independent consultant.
71 After taking account of the detailed work of the audit and risk accountability committee, the board confirms that it carried out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control which operated within the Group during 2012 and up to the date of this annual report in John Langston accordance with the requirements of the revised Turnbull Guidance audit and risk committee chairman on Internal Control published by the FRC.
This review covered the effectiveness of internal controls, namely financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified in the review for 2012.
The board is satisfied that, where areas for improvement During 2012 the audit and risk committee has were identified, processes are in place to ensure that the necessary carriedout its duties by focusing on the key activities action is taken and that progress is monitored.
The board will continue to carry out such reviews on an annual basis.
Details of associated with and complementary to its core internal the specific actions taken during 2012 to review the control financial control responsibilities.
environment and continue to improve controls are set out in this section in the table under risk management and internal control.
t Reviewing the financial results of the Group for the half year and full year the audit and risk committee The audit and risk committee members comprise independent non t Carrying out detailed reviews in June and November executive directors.
JohnLangston is the chairman of the audit and of the Groups risk profile including an assessment of risk committee.
As a qualified chartered accountant and former finance director he is well placed to provide the audit and risk the risks for the Healthcare and Beverage Can South committee with the relevant financial experience to enable it to America sectors presented bytheir respective carry out itsresponsibilities.
management teams 1 audit and risk committee membership 2012 meetings 2012 t Reviewing the effectiveness of the external auditors John Langston committee chairman 4 4 and the internal audit function Noreen Doyle retired 31 December 2012 4 4 Jean-Pierre Rodier 4 4 The committee recognises the role it is required to play Johanna Waterous appointed 4 May 2012 3 3 in supporting the board by ensuring that appropriate 1 Number of scheduled meetings attended maximum number of meetings that internal controls and risk management processes are thedirector could have attended.
inplace to maintain good corporate governance for the Company.
The board recognises its responsibility for ensuring the The main responsibilities of the audit and risk committee implementation and maintenance of effective systems of risk areto: management and internal control, and presenting a balanced and t oversee and review the financial andoperational risks, understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
policies and management: The systems and controls in place include policies and procedures t assist the board in meeting its responsibilities by which provide reasonable assurance that transactions are ensuring an effective system of internal control and recorded as necessary to facilitate the financial reporting process compliance and accurate external financial reporting: and the preparation of consolidated financial statements in t assist the board in managing the relationship with the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Companys external auditors, to review and monitor IFRS.
Representatives of the businesses complete bi annual their independence, and in particular the provision of representation letters formally confirming thattheir businesses non audit services provided by them to theGroup: comply with the Groups financial reporting policies and other t keep under review the effectiveness of the process Group policies andprocedures.
To discharge these duties and forthe identification, assessment, mitigation, reporting responsibilities the board works closely with the audit and and monitoring of risks facing the business: and riskcommittee.
t approve the appointment of the director internal audit and review and approve the annual programme of internal audit assignments.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 72 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report corporate governance The audit and risk committee meets at least four times a year.
At the The enterprise risk management function, formed in 2010, is led by request of theaudit and risk committee chairman, the chairman of the director of group finance and has brought an increased focus the board, the chief executive, the finance director, the director and emphasis on global risk management, providing leadership group finance, the director internal audit and theexternal auditors and co-ordination across the Groups business and operational risk areinvited to attend each meeting.
The operations director has responsibility for operational risk which includes health and safety, environment, fire and audit and risk committee meetings 2012 property protection, security, business continuity andcrisis february Year end results reviewed with external auditors and management.
recommended for approval to the board: internal audit update Q4 2011 presented: internal audit plan for 2012 There is an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, mitigating, approved: internal audit effectiveness approved.
reporting and monitoring the risks faced by the Group with a may External audit plan for 2012 year end approved: early formal audit and risk process known as the ARC process led by the director of group finance together with the chief executive, warnings report presented by external auditors for half finance director, thedirector internal audit and other senior year 2012: internal audit update Q1 2012 presented: management representatives.
Meetings are held with businesses update on Group risks and risk register reviewed and approved: risk presentation by healthcare management and functional managers who present their risk registers, enabling discussion ofthe risks identified, the management of those risks and team.
the mitigation measures as well as the effectiveness of the systems july Half year results reviewed with external auditors and ofinternal control.
The process ensures that risks are not just the recommended for approval by the board: internal audit product ofabottom up approach but are also examined from a top update Q2 2012. down perspective and closely aligned with the Groups strategy.
november Early warnings report presented by external auditors for year end 2012: detailed review of Group risks including The enterprise risk management function chairs the risk leadership presentation by Beverage Can South America and team with representatives from internal audit and senior review of fraud, bribery and corruption risk: internal management from each of the sectors.
The team meets regularly audit update Q3 2012: review of effectiveness of tofocus on key Group risk themes and to refine the ARC process.
During 2012, a number of refinements were made including: Should it be requested, the audit and risk committee has access Introduction of a risk mitigation evaluation tool toindependent expert advice at the Companys expense.
The Implementation of a risk management software system performance and effectiveness of the audit and risk committee are Establishment of a euro crisis committee reviewed as part of the main performance evaluation of the board Externally facilitated anti fraud and bribery risk workshop and all its committees.
Investments pursuant to the National Fire Protection Association financial and business reporting programme The audit and risk committee shares responsibility with the boardfor reviewing in detail the annual report and half year The results of the ARC process are reported to theaudit and risk resultsannouncement, which provide a clear assessment of the committee and provide an opportunity for the audit and risk performance and prospects of the Group through the business committee to discuss and analyse the risks reported.
In addition model, strategy, and a review of strategic risks and financial and toreviewing the risks, aspresented by management, the audit non financial performance.
Also included in the annual report andrisk committee also receives presentations from the Groups isthe external auditors report to the members providing an businesses or functional managers to assess at first hand the independent opinion on the truth and fairness of the Groups effectiveness of the process, consider whether the risks identified financial statements.
The half yearresults announcement includes are being managed successfully and to challenge management on the external auditors review report to the Company.
the mitigation measures in place.
Theaudit and risk committee then reports its conclusions to the board for review.
Details of the key Other published financial information is reviewed by the audit risks to which the Group is exposed and additional information on andrisk committee for statutory and regulatory compliance and risk processes and management are included in the business issubmitted to the board with a recommendation for approval.
review and can be found on pages 40 to 47. risk management and internal control The framework which the board has established to provide effective The Group has well established risk management and internal control internal control for both the Group and its associates and joint systems.
While all elements of risk cannot be eliminated, the ventures is supported by the key areas set out in the table below.
processes and systems aim to identify, assess, prioritise and, where possible, mitigate the Groups risks.
Although no system can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, theGroups systems are designed to provide the board with reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions are properly authorised and recorded and that material errors andirregularities are either prevented or detected within a timelyperiod.
73 key areas of the internal control framework activity in 2012 financial reporting The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting Regular reviews took place to ensure businesses financial results to the board.
An annual budget and wereperforming in line with budget and strategy.
strategic review are prepared for each business and The chief executive and the finance director met are consolidated for review by the board before being regularly with operational management to ensure formally adopted.
During the year, monthly management businesses were performing as expected and accounts, including cash flow and capital expenditure reporting in accordance with the Groups standards.
reporting, are prepared with a comparison against Following those meetings the chief executive and the budget and prior year.
Forecasts are revised in light of finance director reported back to theboard.
this comparison and are also reviewed by the board.
delegated authority There are clearly defined lines of responsibility and The Group authority levels and related financial limits, levels of authority in operation throughout the Group, which include information on those matters that are with specific matters reserved to the board.
Businesses specifically reserved for the boards consideration, are decentralised with operating autonomy and were reviewed and updated.
financial responsibility delegated to corporate and local management to the extent that they have approval to operate within defined levels of authority and risk.
procedures There are formal written Group financial procedures Improvements were made to access and security and controls and controls in operation, including specific controls along with a detailed review of the procedures for treasury matters, capital investment consistency of the Groups computerised management andthe approval of significant contracts.
Corporate systems and controls operating around the Group.
andlocal management are required to complete A Group control framework has been developed and bi annual representation letters formally confirming implemented to ensure that controls are operated thattheir businesses comply with the Groups financial consistently and in line with best practice.
reporting policies and other Group policies andprocedures.
The online legal compliance training system developed to ensure employees familiarity and compliance with theCode of Conduct also includes specific training on Financial Integrity, Combating Bribery in Business and Competition and Anti TrustLaw, and was completed by all appropriate employees.
internal audit The internal audit function monitors financial and The annual internal audit plan, produced from otherrisks faced throughout the Group andthe anassessment of the risks following the ARC controlsystems in operation to manage those risks.
processreview, was approved by the audit and Allsignificant internal audit findings are reported riskcommittee.
Meetings were held regularly between internal audit management, the finance director and the director of group finance, together withbusiness management, to review progress on implementing audit recommendations and toensure any significant issues identified wereaddressed.
Updates on performance were provided to the audit and risk committee by the director internal audit which included the introduction of a controls dashboard measuring completeness of the audit plan, audit report opinions and progress in implementing audit recommendations.
Following the approval by the audit and risk committee of the internal audit strategy, the internal audit function was reorganised in 2012, on a global basis, to reflect changes to the Group structure and toensure greater consistency of audit approach andoutput.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 74 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report corporate governance operational risk Operational risk management, part of the enterprise In line with the Rexam values a system of awards was management risk function, provides the leadership to develop and introduced to recognise businesses receiving high monitor processes which identify, assess and manage scores based on the audits.
risks associated with health and safety, environment, An enhanced global Environment, Health and Safety business continuity and crisis management, fire and EHS audit approach was developed to provide the loss prevention, security and asset protection.
Purpose basis of challenge for a more sustainable and robust built audit programmes allow for businesses to be improvement of EHS management systems and evaluated against Rexams and external best practice performance at all sites.
In addition we introduced a standards in these areas, and provide the basis for high standard fire safety and property protection audit continuous improvement action plans.
In addition, supported and performed by AXA Matrix.
Further many Rexam businesses are accredited to external details can be found in the key risks section of this internationally recognised standards.
The function annual report on page 46. alsomanages Rexams global insurance programme.
Periodic updates including any significant findings and issues are reported to the audit and risk committee.
internal audit auditors work with Group and sector management and discuss The internal audit function plans and undertakes audits of the their findings and recommendations with the audit and risk committee.
During 2012 the audit and risk committee discussed businesses to ensure that the controls operating in the businesses conform with Group controls and procedures, and reviews the thefollowing particular matters with the external auditors: effectiveness of the risk management process.
The accounting treatment for the Personal Care disposals and the The director internal audit provides quarterly updates to the audit related exceptional costs and risk committee and reports on all significant audit findings.
The accounting treatment for customer and supplier contracts Healso has separate meetings with the chairman of the audit The carrying value of other significant judgmental balances andrisk committee without any other member of management including goodwill, deferred tax assets, provisions for tax being present.
exposures and retirement benefit obligations In 2012 the audit and risk committee reviewed and approved the annual internal audit plan including the proposed audit approach, During2012, the audit and risk committee reviewed the coverage and allocation of resources.
It also reviewed the results effectiveness of the external auditors and recommended to the of the audits undertaken, with particular emphasis on the board that a resolution to reappoint PwC be proposed at the AGM recommendations made and managements response to the 2013.
The effectiveness review in 2012 was conducted by the matters raised.
A restructuring of the audit team took place in 2012 director internal audit surveying both the audit and risk committee to reflect changes in the Groups structure and to ensure greater and Group and sector management to establish their respective consistency in audit approach and output.
Following the views in a number of areas including audit scope, delivery, audit reorganisation, an effectiveness review has been carried out to team and cost effectiveness, including value added.
A further gauge the benefit of such changes.
The results of the survey were review of PwCs effectiveness will be undertaken in 2013 following presented to the audit and risk committee.
The audit and risk committee will continue to keep under review the independence and objectivity external auditors of the external auditors.
The audit and risk committee has primary responsibility for and advises the board on the appointment, reappointment and the Non audit services are provided by PwC to the Group only in remuneration of the Companys external auditors.
accordance with Rexams policy on the provision of non audit  LLP PwC have been the Companys services, which assesses the type of service to be provided and the external auditors since 2003 withthe lead audit partner changing associated fees.
Any request for non audit services above a fee by rotation in 2008.
The current audit partner will also change by threshold of 25,000 is presented to the finance director for rotation following the completion of the 2012 audit.
The board has approval prior to commencement of the work.
The finance director reviewed the update to the Code, and the audit and risk committee may, depending on the nature of and fee for the service, obtain the has indicated that it will consider, in 2016, a review of the current prior authorisation of the chairman of the audit and risk committee.
audit service provider in conjunction with the subsequent formal The audit and risk committee reviews the level of non audit fees to rotation of the lead audit partner, with any recommendation for the ensure that the provision of non audit services does not impair reappointment of external auditors being subject to continued PwCs independence or objectivity.
Non audit feesin 2012 relate satisfactory performance.
mainly to assurance reporting on historic financial information required for business disposals, and global tax advisory services.
The external auditors attend all audit and risk committee meetings The fees for non audit services are disclosed in note 5 to the and annual ARC meetings with each of the business sectors.
Other audit firms were engaged audit and risk committee chairman also has separate meetings with to provide expatriate and specialist tax advisory services as well the external auditors to discuss relevant matters.
The external astoadvise on businessdisposals.
75 PwC are prohibited from providing services to the Group that related tohuman resource issues and practices.
All reports of calls are taken by internal audit or the company secretarys office and would be considered to jeopardise their independence, such as financial systems design and implementation, actuarial services, an initial feedback response is provided within five working days.
internal audit outsourcing and investment services.
Thepolicy on All calls are investigated by the director internal audit, in non audit services has been reviewed during 2012 toensure it is in conjunction with the company secretary and, if appropriate, by line with best practice.
management of the respective business.
Any significant concerns directors conflicts of interest are reported directly tothechairman of the audit and risk committee as well as to Groupmanagement.
A quarterly report The board has a formal system in place fordirectors to review regularly their interests and to deal with situations where a director isprovided for Group management and the audit and risk reports any conflictsof interest.
Any conflict situation reported to committee on calls received and how they have been resolved.
the chairman and the company secretary is considered by the The audit and risk committee reviews the whistle blowing policy board based on its particular facts.
Any authorisations given to and the RYC process annually.
An external benchmark review adirector who has a conflict situation arerecorded in the board showed that the nature and volume of calls received under RYC minutes and in a register of directors conflicts which is reviewed was comparable with the experience of other similar organisations.
No conflict situations were reported to the board during 2012 and up to the date of this annual report.
going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely code of conduct to affect its future development, performance and position are A worldwide Code of Conduct, which applies to all the Companys set out in the business review on pages 12 to 47.
The financial employees, has been approved by the board and provides a clear position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and statement for the benefit of stakeholders involved with or impacted borrowing facilities are detailed in the financial review on pages by Rexams activities.
It is communicated throughan induction 31 to 39.
In addition, notes 24, 25 and 26 to the consolidated process for new employees, as part of the team briefings in the financial statements include the Groups objectives and policies Groups businesses, and on the Groups intranet and website.
formanaging its capital, its financial risk management objectives, Theboard is kept informed regarding the maintenance of the Code details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its of Conduct and any breaches of it.
Anonline training system is exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
operated to ensure all appropriate employees are aware of their responsibilities and are in compliance with the Code of Conduct.
The Group has considerable financial resources and has established agreements with a number of key customers and The Groups policies and procedures relating to bribery and suppliers across different geographic areas and markets.
The corruption were kept under review by the executive leadership financial resources include 2.8bn of debt facilities, of which team and the audit and risk committee during 2012.
0.8bn are undrawn, with the next significant maturities due in whistle blowing policy March 2013 0.5bn and June 2013 0.4bn.
The Group also has significant cash and cash equivalent balances at 31 December Rexam has an open door policy whereby employees are encouraged to share concerns, raise issues and provideideas for 2012, some 1.3bn, which will be used to fund the 0.4bn return improvement, with all levels of management inthe business.
It is of cash in early 2013 and will be applied to settle the 2013 debt recognised, however, that there will be times when an employee facility maturities highlighted above.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its might be uncomfortable raising concerns directly with local management and, in such cases, communication with business business despite the economic environment which increases risks andGroup management is encouraged.
The Company operates a whistle blowing policy which is The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, are satisfied supported byanexternal confidential telephone helpline, that the Company and the Group have adequate resources available to all employees for the raising of any concerns, to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
including those of a financial nature.
The helpline is provided by For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in one of the leading providers of whistle blowing services in the UK preparing the consolidated and Company financial statements.
who have a significant number of FTSE clients.
The Raise Your Concern policy RYC is highlighted to employees when they commence employment with the Group and in team meetings to remuneration ensure the policy is understood and available toall employees.
Employees are encouraged to use the service only when other remuneration policy for directors internal reporting lines have not sufficiently dealt with their The remuneration committee is responsible for making concerns, or if the matter is too serious or confidential to discuss recommendations to the board on the Groups remuneration with local or sector management.
policyand setting the remuneration levels and specific packages During 2012, 47 calls were received by the helpline provider appropriate for the chairman and the executive directors 2011: 41 calls and there have been on average 41 calls per year takinginto account the Groups annual salary negotiations.
since the policy was introduced in 2006, broadly in line with Theremuneration report is on pages 77 to 90 of this annual report.
The majority of calls received tend to be financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 76 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report corporate governance The non executive directors are given regular updates as to the shareholder relations views ofinstitutional shareholders.
After the investor meetings heldfollowing the announcement of the half and full year results, asummary report on investor responses is prepared for the board, dialogue with shareholders normally by the Companys corporate brokers.
The board also The board believes that it is a priority to communicate with commissions periodic assessments of major investors views on shareholders and uses various methods to reach as many Company management and performance, based on results of surveys shareholders as possible.
There are programmes for the chief and extensive interviews.
This survey also helps to plan the investor executive, finance director and the head of investor relations relations programme for the following year.
tomeet with the Companys major institutional investors in the UK, the US and Europe.
Presentations are made on the operating annual general meeting and financial performance of the Group, including corporate Communication with private shareholders is largely through the governance related matters, and the Groups longer term strategy.
AGM, which is held at a central London location.
The notice of the Thepresentation slides shown to representatives of the investment AGM is posted to shareholders with, ifrequested, the annual report community following the announcement of the half and full year and any related papers at least 20working days before the date of results are available on the Companys website, as is a live the AGM to ensure that shareholders have sufficient time in which webcast of the related results presentation.
Roadshowsare held to consider the items ofbusiness to be voted upon.
The majority of inthe UK, the US and Europe following the announcement of the shareholders have elected to access the annual report and other half and full year results.
Where it is not possible tomeet face shareholder documents online via the Rexam website rather than toface, meetings are held by video or telephone conference.
TheCompany also hosts plant visits and seminars for institutional A presentation is made at the AGM to update shareholders on the shareholders and representatives of the investment community.
Shareholders aregiven the opportunity to ask Theseminars are webcast live and replays, together with questions of the chairman, the board and the chairman of each presentation slides and transcripts, are available online.
board committee during the AGM and to meet allthe directors informally at the AGM.
Separate resolutions are proposed at the AGM on a poll for each item of business and shareholders are asked to vote for, against or vote withheld oneach resolution.
In December 2012, we took 12 investors and analysts to Votes are counted and anannouncement confirming whether each visit our beverage can facility in Fairfield, California.
They resolution was passed atthe AGM is made through the London toured the site and spent time with the plant management Stock Exchange and can be viewed on the Rexam website, to better understand how a beverage can is made.
together with a summary of the number of votes cast in respect Investors appreciated the chance to see and learn more ofeach resolution.
about the manufacturing process as well as the opportunity to have an informal question and answer Rexams ADR investors receive details of the AGM and are entitled session during the visit.
to instruct the depositary, TheBank of New York Mellon, to vote onthe resolutions to be proposed at the AGM.
Institutional shareholders can request an opportunity to meet Shareholders can ask questions of theCompany withany of the executive and non executive directors.
The non at any time through the Rexam website or by executive directors have an opportunity to meet with shareholders at the AGM and may attend analyst presentations made by the contacting the company secretarys department chief executive and finance director.
Theboard fully supports the at the Companys headquarters.
principle of the Code which seeks toencourage more active interest and contribution from institutional shareholders.
