Corporate governance Rio Tinto takes a unified approach to corporate governance to comply The board with the regulatory obligations associated with its three principal stock Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a common board of directors.
exchange listings in the UK, Australia and the US.
The directors are responsible for the success of the Group and, through the independent oversight of management, are accountable to shareholders for the performance of the business.
Statement of compliance with governance codes and standards in 2012 Role and responsibilities In compiling this report, the directors have referred to the June 2010 The principal role of the board is to set the Groups strategy and to edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, the regularly review its strategic direction.
In doing this, the board also has Australian Securities Exchange ASX Corporate Governance Principles responsibility for corporate governance and oversees managements and Recommendations the ASX Principles, and the New York Stock control and accountability framework.
Exchange NYSE Corporate Governance Standards the NYSE Standards.
A formal schedule of matters reserved by the board has been established Throughout 2012, and at the date of this report, the Group applied the by the directors.
This covers areas such as the Groups strategy, major principles of, and was compliant with the provisions of, the Code and investments, acquisitions and divestments and oversight of risk.
It is with the ASX Principles.
Rio Tinto plc, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares Responsibility for day-to-day management of the business is delegated listed on the NYSE, is obliged by the NYSE Standards to disclose any tothe chief executive and the Executive Committee.
In turn, authorities significant ways in which its practices of corporate governance differ are also delegated to individual members of the Executive Committee, from the NYSE Standards.
allwithin an agreed financial control framework.
As part of the annual financial planning process, the board sets annual performance targets, The Company has reviewed the NYSE Standards and believes that which include personal and business performance measures, under the itspractices are broadly consistent with them, with one exception.
Groups short-term incentive plan detailed on page 97.
These TheNYSE Standards state that companies must have a nominating performance targets are determined by the Remuneration Committee corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent onbehalf of the board for the chief executive based upon his proposals directors which, in addition to identifying individuals qualified to and objectives for the year.
The chief executive establishes targets for become board members, develops and recommends to the board theother members of his Executive Committee which are then cascaded aset of corporate governance principles applicable to the Company.
Further details of the performance Rio Tinto has a Nominations Committee, information about which evaluation of the executive directors and other senior executives is isset out on page 77.
This committee does not develop corporate discussed in the Remuneration report.
governance principles for the boards approval.
The board itself performs this task and approves the Groups overall system of Board balance and independence governance and internal controls.
Board composition The names, skills and experience of each director together with their Further information about the corporate governance framework terms in office are shown in the biographical details on pages 83 to 85. isavailable in the Shareholders section of Rio Tintos website.
Details of changes to the board during 2012 and in the year to date are set out in the Directors report on page 89.
Director independence The tests of independence of a non-executive director vary between the jurisdictions where Rio Tinto has listings.
The board has adopted a formal policy for the determination of the independence of its non-executive directors which is available on the Groups website.
Applying the criteria of the independence policy, the board is satisfied that all of its nonexecutive directors are independent.
Among the key criteria of the independence policy are independence from management and the absence of any business relationship which could materially interfere with the directors independence of judgment and ability to provide a strong, valuable contribution to the boards deliberations, or which could interfere with the directors ability to act in the best interests of the Group.
Where contracts in the ordinary course of business exist between Rio Tinto and a company in which a director has declared an interest, these are reviewed for materiality to both the Group, and the other party to the contract.
Material is defined in the policy as being where the relationship accounts for more than two per cent of either partys consolidated gross revenue per annum, although the test also takes other circumstances into account.
The chairman was considered independent upon his appointment under the Code, and in the boards view he continues to satisfy the tests for independence under the ASX Principles and the NYSE Standards.
72 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Governance: Corporate governance Executive directors other directorships Board performance evaluation Executive directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of An annual exercise is undertaken to evaluate the effectiveness of the other companies.
The Nominations Committee, on behalf of the board board, board committees and individual directors.
operates a procedure under which approval may be given to accept such For 2012, the board evaluation process was facilitated by Independent invitations recognising the benefit to be derived to the individual and to Board Evaluation, an independent external consultancy with no Rio Tinto from such appointments.
For further information see page 101. other connection with the Company, engaged by the chairman and Election and re-election co-ordinated by the company secretary.
The directors may appoint additional members to join the board during A comprehensive brief was provided to Independent Board Evaluation.
Directors appointed in this way will be subject to election by The evaluation process involved the consultant attending board and shareholders at the first annual general meetings after their appointment.
committee meetings in an observer capacity.
This was supported by In subsequent years, the directors are expected to submit themselves for detailed interviews conducted with every board member and members re-election at the annual general meetings each year.
of the Executive Committee and the company secretary.
Non-executive directors are normally expected to serve at least six years Based on these interviews, the senior independent non-executive director and, except in special circumstances, would not normally serve more received a report on the chairman, and feedback on his performance has than nine years.
Lord Kerr has been a non-executive director since 2003 and has therefore The chairman appraised the performance of non-executive directors and already served for nine years.
provided feedback on each individuals performance and contribution.
Given the recent executive changes, he has agreed to stand for A similar process was followed for the board committees.
Independent re-election to the boards at the AGMs.
The board considers that Lord Kerr Board Evaluation provided feedback to each of the committee chairs will provide continuity given his significant knowledge of the business on the performance of each committee.
In turn, this will be discussed andhas confirmed that he continues to be independent in carrying out andany actions agreed by each committee later this year.
Following the conclusion of this evaluation exercise, the board plans to Governance processes hold a dedicated session at one of its scheduled meetings to discuss the In 2012, there were eight scheduled board meetings and one board output from the performance evaluation and to consider what actions to meeting convened and held at short notice.
Details of the directors put into effect during the remainder of 2013. attendance at all of the board and committee meetings held in 2012 areset out on the following page.
The board has regular discussions with the executives on the Groups strategy.
These discussions will typically include strategy presentations that are given by product group chief executives, or other members of management.
An annual two-day strategy-setting meeting with the Executive Committee is held which includes broader, detailed review sessions on the Groups strategic direction.
The outputs from this event help underpin the boards annual financial planning exercise and provide strategic direction and focus to the executive team through effective allocation of the Groups resources.
Directors receive timely, regular and appropriate information to enable them to fulfil their duties.
They also have direct access to the advice and services of the company secretaries.
The directors are also able to obtain independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
In addition, the directors are in regular informal communication with members of the Executive Committee and other members of management.
This helps to foster an open and regular exchange of knowledge and experience.
All new non-executive directors undertake a formal induction programme.
In addition, they are routinely provided with training and development opportunities.
The directors are also encouraged to participate in site visits to the Groups operations around the world and to meet with local employees.
In 2012, the board visited our bauxite and alumina operations in Gladstone, Queensland, our copper mine at Northparkes, New South Wales, our mineral sand operations in Richards Bay, South Africa and our coal business in Mozambique.
com o. com 73 73 Corporate governance continued Directors membership of and attendance at board and Committee meetings during 2012 Board Board Audit Remuneration Sustainability Nominations Chairmans f f f f f f f scheduled short notice Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee a Jan du Plessis 7 8 1 1 7 7 4 4 19 19 b Tom Albanese 8 8 1 1 18 19 Guy Elliott 8 8 1 1 16 19 c Sam Walsh 8 8 1 1 Robert Brown 8 8 1 1 5 5 4 4 Vivienne Cox 8 8 1 1 5 5 4 4 Michael Fitzpatrick 8 8 1 1 6 6 9 9 4 4 Ann Godbehere 8 8 1 1 6 6 4 4 Richard Goodmanson 8 8 1 1 9 9 5 5 4 4 d Andrew Gould 2 3 1 1 3 4 1 2 Lord Kerr 8 8 1 1 6 6 5 5 4 4 e Chris Lynch 8 8 1 1 4 4 4 4 Paul Tellier 8 8 1 1 6 6 9 9 4 4 John Varley 7 8 1 1 9 9 4 4 a Appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 7 February 2012 b Stood down from the board on 17 January 2013 c Appointed chief executive on 17 January 2013 d Retired from the board on 10 May 2012 e Appointed to the Audit Committee 1 June 2012.
Appointed chief financial officer-designate on 1 March 2013, at which time Chris Lynch resigned from the Committee.
f Number of meetings attended maximum the director could have attended Governance structure The committees are governed by terms of reference, set and approved The board has established formal committees which are responsible for bythe board, which are reviewed annually and can be viewed on the audit, remuneration, sustainability and matters relating to executive and corporate governance section of the website.
In addition, a Chairmans Committee operates under delegated authority between scheduled board meetings.
These The chief executive is assisted by the Executive Committee in monitoring support the board in ensuring that high standards of corporate performance and delivering Rio Tintos strategy.
governance are maintained across the Group.
Governance structure Board of directors Board Audit Nominations Sustainability Remuneration Chairmans committees Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chief Financial Chief Executive Officer Disclosure Management Investment Executive and Procedures committees Committee Committee Committee Continuous Ore Reserves Risk Closure Finance Disclosure Steering Management Committee Committee a Committee Committee Committee a The Continuous Disclosure Committee is an independent management committee.
74 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Governance: Corporate governance Board committees Progress against our priorities Audit Committee What we said Members of the Committee are Ann Godbehere chair, Mike Fitzpatrick, r Review financial and non-financial performance metrics to retain John Kerr and Paul Tellier.
Chris Lynch was appointed to the Committee astrong balance sheet: on 1 June 2012 and stood down upon his appointment as chief financial r Review executive succession planning under the leadership of the officer-designate on 1 March 2013.
Nominations Committee: and Key responsibilities r Deliver year-on-year improvement in safety performance.
The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist the board in fulfilling its responsibilities by monitoring the integrity of financial What we have achieved reporting, internal control, risk management and compliance systems.
r Carried out the annual strategy session at which we reconfirmed through optimising our asset allocation strategy to balance capital The Audit Committees main responsibilities include the review of management dividend versus growth focus on the pursuit of accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation greater shareholder value: ofpublic financial information, review with management of procedures relating to financial controls, including internal audit plans and reports, r Continued focus on succession planning, including changes to the review with external auditors of the scope and results of their audit, Executive Committee implemented in September 2012 and review and approval of the auditors fees, the nomination of auditors for February 2013: appointment by shareholders, and the review of and recommendation to r Hosted two governance round-table meetings with key Australian the board for approval of risk management policies and processes.
It also and UK investors covering the role and accountabilities of the board oversees the whistleblowing programme.
and committees: and In carrying out its responsibilities the Committee has full authority to r Continued focus on safety improvement and simplifying investigate all matters that fall within its terms of reference.
Accordingly, performance assessment so as to be based upon safety measures the Committee may: rather than programmes to drive performance.
r obtain independent professional advice in the satisfaction of its duties at the cost of the Group: and What are our priorities Strategy r have direct access to the resources of the Group as it may reasonably r We invest in and operate large, long-life, low-cost mines and require including the external and internal auditors.
businesses in the most favourable industry sectors.
Governance processes r We pursue greater value for shareholders and optimise future The Committee met six times in 2012.
The chairman, chief executive, capital allocation by prioritising and investing in only the highest chief financial officer, other senior management and external and internal returning projects.
auditors regularly attend its meetings.
r We continue to focus on retaining a strong balance sheet with The members of the Committee are independent and free of any relationship asingle A credit rating.
that would affect their impartiality in carrying out their responsibilities.
The members meet the independence requirements of the Code, the ASX Succession and diversity Principles and the NYSE Standards.
The Committee meets the composition, r Maintain a focus on executive and non-executive succession operation and responsibility requirements of the ASX Principles.
planning, taking into account the Groups diversity and inclusion policy.
The Committee is also bound by SEC requirements for audit committees financial experts and the Code and ASX Principles requirement that at Performance least one Committee member should have recent and relevant financial r Delivering on existing commitments and growth projects.
Ann Godbehere, chairman of the r Enhance performance at existing businesses by unlocking Committee, is considered by the board to have recent and relevant substantial productivity improvements, aggressively reducing costs financial experience, and financial qualifications, and has been and improved management of our sustaining capital.
designated the Committees financial expert.
All other members of the Committee are, in the opinion of the Committee, deemed to be financially r Target cumulative cash cost savings of over US$5 billion by the end literate by virtue of their business experience.
The Committee applies policies for the pre-approval of permitted services r Strengthen existing management systems: instilling greater rigour provided by the Groups external auditors  LLP to internal review processes: introducing greater clarity and PwC.
All of the engagements for services provided by them were accountability to decision-making: and clearer line of sight to either within the pre-approval policies or approved by the Committee.
Committee members are satisfied that the provision of non-audit services r Continue focus on improved safety performance.
by PwC in accordance with this procedure is compatible with the general standard of independence for auditors imposed by relevant regulations, including the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and US legislation.
The Committee considered reports from PwC and Group Audit &Assurance on the activities undertaken in reviewing and auditing the control environment in order to assess the quality and effectiveness of the internal control system.
This included an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls over financial reporting andthe Groups disclosure controls and procedures in accordance with sections 404 and 302 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act 2002.
A review of the scope and the outputs from the annual Internal Control Questionnaire, a key element of Rio Tintos internal control framework, was also evaluated.
com 75 Corporate governance continued The external auditor attended all six Committee meetings during the year.
What we did in 2012 In advance of the Committee meetings, the audit partners brief the r Established dedicated induction, training and development chairman on key matters.
Private sessions are routinely held with members programme for all committee members: of the external audit team to discuss the status of the audit and nature of interaction with management.
r Reviewed Internal Audit Strategy for 2013 14: r Monitored effectiveness of the Groups risk management process: During the year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of PwC for Group audit and local statutory audit work.
The evaluation, managed r Oversight of transition of Australian external audit partner: by the Groups financial controllers, took the form of a survey comprising r Appointment of new head of Group Audit & Assurance: a range of questions covering objectivity, quality, and efficiency, and r Engaged with European Commission over EU audit reform was completed by individual Rio Tinto business units.
The results proposals: and of this survey were presented to the Committee which concluded that r Focused on impairment, acquisitions and the Annual report.
PwC continued to provide a high-quality audit and an effective and independent challenge to management.
The Committee was satisfied What we are doing in 2013 with the external audit process and that the independence of the external r In compliance with the revised Code, reviewing the Committees auditors was in no way compromised.
scope and accountabilities to ensure that, if requested by the PwC has been the external auditor since the formation of the dual listed board, it can monitor the effectiveness of the Groups reporting company structure in 1995.
The Committee does not consider it necessary processes and provide advice on whether the annual report and at the present time to undertake a tender process for the Groups external accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable: auditors.
Since 2002, PwC has followed the requirements of the Sarbanesr Reviewing and, as appropriate, enhancing the Committees Oxley Act 2002 and APB Ethical Standards and rotated both the lead UK disclosures regarding its activities during the year, including and Australian audit partners at least every five years.
This continued discussion of significant issues it has considered, and a discussion refreshing of the team brings new perspectives to the audit and promotes of the processes and checks carried out to ensure the effectiveness healthy debate between auditors and management as well as the and independence of the external auditors: Committee.
The current UK audit engagement partner, Richard Hughes, r Reviewing and reinforcing the existing process and control environment: was appointed for the 2011 year end and therefore 2015 will be his last year of involvement before transition to a new engagement partner.
The r Monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of the Groups risk Australian audit engagement partner, Paul Bendall, was appointed for the management processes and controls: 2012 year end and therefore 2016 will be his last year.
r Overseeing the 2014 Group Audit & Assurance planning process and, specifically, the 2014 Internal Audit plan: r Continuing the focus on dedicated training and development sessions for Committee members on a range of technical accounting subjects.
Subjects earmarked for 2013 include accounting for asset retirement obligations: and accounting for exploration, evaluation and capital projects.
Ann Godbehere Chairman 76 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Governance: Corporate governance Nominations Committee Sustainability Committee Members of the Committee comprise Jan du Plessis chair and all of Members of the Committee are Richard Goodmanson chair, Robert theserving non-executive directors.
Brown, Vivienne Cox and John Kerr.
Key responsibilities Key responsibilities The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the board, for regularly The Committee assists the board to oversee management processes, assessing the balance of executive and non-executive directors and the standards, and strategies designed to manage social and environmental composition of the board in terms of the diversity and capacity required risks and achieve compliance with social and environmental to oversee the delivery of the Rio Tinto strategy.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of management policies and procedures relating to safety, The Committee develops and agrees in advance the desired profiles of health, employment practices, relationships with neighbouring potential candidates for board membership.
It oversees the recruitment communities, environment, human rights, land access, political process and engages external search consultants to manage searches on involvement and sustainable development.
its behalf, including constructing shortlists comprising candidates from diverse backgrounds.
Following a final review of shortlisted candidates, Governance processes the Committee will make a recommendation for new board members to In 2012, the Committee met five times.
The chairman, chief executive, the board for approval.
and other senior management regularly attend its meetings.
On behalf of the board, the Committee also reviews proposals for senior The members of the Committee are all independent.
executive appointments, monitors executive succession planning and oversees the boards policy on external appointments of Executive What we did in 2012 Committee members.
r Reviewed reputational risks around non-managed operations within the wider context of identified risks within the Committees remit: Governance processes In 2012, the Committee met four times.
r Undertook deep dives on key risks associated with underground mining, and managements plans for tackling them: and The members of the Committee are independent in accordance with the r Undertook locally-focused sustainable development reviews with independence policy adopted by the board.
management during site visits to Richards Bay Minerals, and Gladstone, Queensland.
What we did in 2012 r Undertook regular executive succession planning reviews, particularly What we are doing in 2013 in relation to the chief executive and the chief financial officer, and r Review key risks, associated with mine closure and legacy matters, the appointment of a new member to the Executive Committee: communities and social performance, and energy, environment and r Continued the search for new, suitably diverse directors with climate change and managements plans for tackling them: good understanding and experience of the worlds emerging r Review work plans formulated for health, safety, environment, economies: and communities and employment practices: and r Further developed the quality and depth of senior management.
r Undertake deep dives around major risk areas, including through site visits.
What we are doing in 2013 r Continue regular executive succession planning reviews taking into Richard Goodmanson account the Groups Diversity and Inclusion policy: Chairman r Focus on the addition of new, suitably qualified and diverse directors: and r Review the output from a diversity review in order to gauge Remuneration Committee progress against the aspiration for the right mix of skills and Members of the Committee are John Varley chair, Jan du Plessis diversity on the board.
appointed to the Committee on 7 February 2012, Mike Fitzpatrick, Richard Goodmanson, and Paul Tellier.
Andrew Gould was a member Jan du Plessis ofthe Committee until his retirement on 10 May 2012.
Chairman Key responsibilities The Remuneration Committee assists the board to fulfil its oversight responsibility to shareholders to ensure that remuneration policy and practices reward fairly and responsibly and with a clear link to corporate and individual performance.
The report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 92 to 125 has been recommended by the Committee for approval by the board.
com 77 Corporate governance continued Chairmans Committee Members of the Committee are Jan du Plessis chair, Guy Elliott, Diversity and inclusion Chris Lynch, further to his recent appointment as chief financial Our commitment to diversity and inclusion officer-designate, and Sam Walsh.
We are a global company and, wherever we operate and across every Key responsibilities part of our business, we strive to create an inclusive culture in which difference is recognised and valued.
By bringing together men and The Committee acts on behalf of the board between scheduled board meetings either in accordance with authority delegated by the board women from diverse backgrounds and giving each person the or as specifically set out within its terms of reference.
It supports the opportunity to contribute their skills, experience and perspectives, we functioning of the board and ensures that the business of the board and believe that we are able to develop the best solutions to challenges and deliver sustainable value for Rio Tinto and its stakeholders.
its committees is properly planned and aligned with management.
When mandated by the board, the Chairmans Committee will consider urgent What diversity and inclusion means for Rio Tinto matters between board meetings, and deal with the implementation of r Embracing workforce diversity age, gender, race, national or ethnic board decisions on transactions and other corporate matters.
Other than origin, religion, language, political beliefs, sexual orientation, and for the chairman of the board, the Committee performs the annual review physical ability.
of non-executive directors fees and makes a recommendation to the board, as appropriate.
r Valuing diversity of perspective leveraging the diverse thinking, skills, experience and working styles of our employees and other stakeholders.
r Building a flexible organisation providing opportunities for work arrangements that accommodate the diverse needs of individuals at different career and life stages.
r Respecting stakeholder diversity developing strong and sustainable relationships with diverse shareholders, communities, employees, governments, customers and suppliers.
How we support diversity and inclusion We use the following to drive action and build awareness about diversity and inclusion: r Governance models r Policies, practices and targets r Leadership and cultural competence r Stakeholder relationships r Education and communication We prioritise long and short-term programmes based on need and impact.
Read a summary of our Diversity and Inclusion Policy in the corporate governance section of our website.
Our current focus Our goal is to have a workforce that is representative of the countries and communities in which we operate.
Currently, our focus is to improve the representation of women and of people from nationalities which are under-represented in our workforce and continue to build an inclusive culture in which all talent can thrive.
Some of the activities and initiatives relating to diversity that we undertook during the year are: r The development of executive-sponsored diversity and inclusion plans within the product groups and geographies in alignment with business goals and the Group Diversity and Inclusion strategy aimed at increasing the diversity in our workforce at all levels and building a more inclusive culture.
Progress will be evaluated each year by the Executive Committee and Group Diversity Council beginning in 2013. r The design of a diversity and inclusion scorecard to accompany the above plans with metrics in three areas: 1 Who we are demographics : 2 How we behave performance and development : and 3 What we stand for values, to be applied across Rio Tinto to help baseline, trend and track progress as well as to address areas where we may be underperforming.
r The active involvement with Women in Mining groups, professional womens associations and other targeted recruiting efforts to raise awareness about Rio Tinto and to increase the attraction, development and retention of talented women wherever we operate.
78 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Governance: Corporate governance r The publication of a resource and training manual to accompany our Board diversity Why gender matters guide to further integrate gender, diversity and More information about the boards process for the selection, human rights considerations into the management and planning of all appointment and election of directors is available in the corporate Communities and Social Performance CSP work across all sections governance section of the website.
The Nominations Committee regularly reviews the structure, size r The launch of easily-accessible language learning applications with andcomposition of the board.
As a consequence of this review in 2012, access to over 23 languages to encourage employees to improve the board confirmed the following statement as to the mix of skills and existing foreign language skills as well as to learn new languages.
diversity it is looking to achieve in membership of the board.
r Expansion of our diversity champions network group to include In leading a global mining and metals company, the board seeks to additional geographies and operations and the establishment of continually evolve its membership by seeking non-executive directors several new business unit diversity councils and committees across with diverse and complementary skills and perspectives, as well as RioTinto increasing leadership engagement, cross-company experience which reflects the geographic spread of the Groups collaboration, and the sharing and replication of best practices.
Core skills required for non-executive membership of the r The expansion of training programmes aimed at countering board are maintained.
These skills may, depending upon the unconscious bias-targeting senior leaders, hiring managers and circumstances, comprise international business, financial or public recruiters to help minimise the impact of bias in recruitment policy experience, strategic acumen or mining or metals industry anddevelopment practices as well as toimprove cross-cultural experience.
The board aspires to increase other aspects of diversity, interactions and relationship building needed to globalise including the gender diversity, of directors in order to bring a diversity ourbusiness.
of skills, experience and perspective to the governance of the Group.
r The continuation of a three-year commitment by the chairman The board recognises that the evolution of the mix of skills and to mentoring high-potential female board candidates through the diversity is a long-term process and weighs the various factors relevant FTSE100 Cross-company Mentoring Programme.
to board balance and diversity when vacancies arise.
Proportion of women employees and board members In 2012, the proportion of women on the board was 14 per cent, in senior management 15 per cent and in the overall workforce 18 per cent.
Measurable objectives and progress We established the following five-year measurable objectives for workforce diversity at the start of 2011.
Measurable objective Progress during 2012 Women to represent 20 per cent Women represented 15 per cent of our senior management by 2015. of our senior management in 2012.
Women to represent 40 per cent Women represented 30 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake.
15 per cent of our 2015 graduate 24 per cent of our 2012 graduate intake to be nationals from intake were nationals from regions where we are developing regions where we are developing new businesses.
Two further objectives relating to diversity of the board were established for 2012: r The Nominations Committee will undertake a review of board diversity.
r For each director selection and appointment process, the external search firm supporting the Nominations Committee will put forward atleast one credible and suitably experienced female candidate.
An assessment of board diversity was completed in 2012 with the support of an external consultancy, Independent Board Evaluation.
The output from that assessment will be reviewed in the context of the boards succession plans during 2013.
The search firm was instructed to put forward at least one credible and suitably experienced female candidate for the searches undertaken during 2012.
Their details were included in submissions made to the Nominations Committee.
No appointment of a non-executive director was made in 2012.
Accordingly, this objective remains in place for 2013.
The board has decided to adopt an additional measurable objective directed at gender diversity to undertake specialist training aimed at countering unconscious bias, designed to influence the mindsets that hinder the progress of women and minority groups within the Group.
The board will assess progress against these objectives annually.
com 79 Corporate governance continued Rio Tinto makes immediate disclosure to the listing authorities of any Other disclosures information that a reasonable person would expect to have a material Global code of conduct effect on its share price in accordance with their rules.
All information Rio Tintos commitment to integrity and compliance is set out in The way released to the markets is posted on the media section of the website.
This contains principles and standards of conduct which reaffirm the Groups commitment to integrity and compliance.
It is inspired by our In addition to statutory documents, Rio Tintos website features in-depth four core values: accountability, respect, teamwork and integrity.
information on health, safety and the environment, corporate governance, as well as general investor information, publications and policies and It is supported by Rio Tintos extensive framework of policies and guidance.
Annual and half year results, as well as any major standards.
Core policies are adopted by the board after wide consultation, presentations, are also webcast.
Presentation material from investor externally and within the Group.
Once adopted, they are communicated seminars is also made available on the website.
to business units worldwide, together with mandatory standards, guidance notes and resources to support implementation.
Business units The annual general meetings present an opportunity to provide a are required to devote the necessary effort by management to implement summary business presentation, to inform shareholders of recent and report on these policies and standards.
developments and to give them the opportunity to ask questions.
Generally, the chairs of all board committees will be available to answer Rio Tintos core policies, addressed in The way we work, include: access to questions raised by shareholders and all directors are expected to attend land: business integrity: communities: corporate governance: employment: where possible.
In 2012 all of the directors attended the annual general environment: human rights: internal controls and reporting: occupational meetings.
Rio Tintos external auditor, , attends health: political involvement: government relations: safety: sustainable the annual general meetings and is available to answer questions about development: and transparency.
These are supported by policies in the the conduct of the external audit and the preparation and content of the areas of data privacy, risk, information management and security.
Any questions received and answers Each policy is supported by standards and guidance, expanding on the provided ahead of the annual general meetings are made available to minimum expectations on topics such as antitrust, continuous disclosure, shareholders, who also have the opportunity to meet informally with anti-bribery, compliance, cultural heritage and health, safety and the directors after the meetings.
These policies and standards apply to all Rio Tinto The main channels of communication with the investment community managed businesses.
Where the Group does not have operating are through the chairman, chief executive and chief financial officer, responsibility for a business, Rio Tintos policies are communicated to its whohave regular meetings with the Companies major shareholders.
business partners and they are encouraged to adopt similar policies of Thesenior independent director, other board committee chairs, and their own.
Rio Tinto employees are required to undertake training about non-executive directors are also available on request.
The senior the requirements of The way we work and other core policies.
independent director has a specific responsibility to be available to shareholders who have concerns, and where contact with the chairman, Whistleblowing programme chief executive or chief financial officer has failed to resolve their The board has adopted a confidential and independently operated concerns, or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
This offers an avenue where concerns can be reported anonymously if employees so choose, During 2012, these meetings with the investment community focused on subject to local law.
This can include any significant concerns about the the issues of strategy, board succession, corporate governance, executive business, or behaviour of individuals, including suspicion of violations remuneration, and the operational and financial performance of the offinancial reporting, safety or environmental procedures or business Group.
Regular investor seminars provide a two-way communication integrity issues generally.
During 2012, enhanced features were opportunity with investors and analysts, whilst in 2012, corporate introduced to the programme, including improved web submission, a new governance round tables were hosted to provide investors with an case management tool to better manage cases, and a reporting tool to opportunity to engage with non-executive directors.
Feedback from such allow for improved analysis of case statistics and reporting.
Rio Tinto is engagement is routinely communicated to the board.
Surveys of major also looking at ways to increase the positive awareness of Speak-OUT shareholders opinions are presented to the board by the Groups investor among employees.
relations advisers on a regular basis.
Dealing in Rio Tinto securities Risk management Rio Tinto has a set of rules which restrict the dealing in Rio Tinto Risk management securities by directors and employees with access to inside information.
Rio Tintos overriding objective is to generate attractive sustainable These rules require those people to seek clearance from the chairman or returns to shareholders through a strategy of investing in large, the company secretary before any proposed dealing to ensure that they long-term, low-cost mines and businesses.
The directors recognise that do not deal when in possession of inside information.
Directors and creating shareholder return is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
members of the Executive Committee will not be given clearance during The risks facing shareholders are, to some extent, managed by the close periods immediately preceding the announcement of annual and Groups diversified portfolio of assets spread across multiple geographies, interim results.
The rules prohibit the hedging of unvested options or currencies and commodities.
other unvested securities issued as remuneration.
The Rules for dealing A description of the principal risks and uncertainties that could affect in Rio Tinto securities can be viewed on the website.
RioTinto are found on pages 10 to 12.
Communication with stakeholders Risk policy and standard Rio Tinto recognises the importance of effective timely communication The board recognises that risk is an integral component of the business, with shareholders and the wider investment community.
and that it is characterised by both threat and opportunity.
The Group fosters a risk aware corporate culture in all decision-making, and is To ensure that trading in its securities takes place in an informed market, the Group has adopted continuous disclosure standards which are committed to managing all risk in a proactive and effective manner through competent risk management.
To support this commitment, risk overseen by the Continuous Disclosure Committee and form part of the isanalysed in order to inform the management decisions taken at all Groups corporate governance standards.
The Committee is responsible levels within the organisation.
The principles of the risk analysis and for determining whether information relating to Rio Tinto may require disclosure to the markets under the continuous disclosure requirements management process are set out in the Risk policy and standard which ison the website.
in the jurisdictions in which Rio Tinto is listed.
80 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Governance: Corporate governance Risk approach certain other services are pre-approved.
Any engagement of the external The Risk policy and standard is supported by an integrated framework of risk auditors to provide other permitted services is subject to the specific governance and reporting specifying how the Group organises the handling approval of the Audit Committee or its chairman.
Together with the policy, the framework provides an ongoing process At half year and year end, the chief financial officer and the external for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the auditors submit to the Audit Committee a schedule of the types of Group.
Clear accountability for risk management is defined throughout services that were performed during the period.
The Audit Committee the Group and is a key performance area of line managers.
The process may impose a financial limit on the total value of other permitted has been in place for 2012 and up to the date of the report.
services that can be provided.
Any non-audit service provided by the To support risk understanding and management at all levels, the Group external auditors, where the expected fee exceeds a pre-determined Risk function provides the necessary infrastructure, information collation level, must be subject to the Groups normal tender procedures.
for the senior executive, and co-ordination between other risk-focused In exceptional circumstances, the chief financial officer is authorised to functions.
Group Risk reports into the Risk Management Committee.
engage the external auditors to provide such services without going to Internal controls tender, but if the fees are expected to exceed certain pre-determined The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and limits then the chairman of the Audit Committee must give prior approval for reviewing annually its effectiveness in providing shareholders with a return of the engagement.
on their investments that is consistent with a responsible assessment and Further information on audit and non-audit fees of the Groups external management of risks.
This includes reviewing financial, operational and auditors as well as remuneration payable to other accounting firms, is set compliance controls and risk management procedures and their effectiveness.
out in note 40 to the financial statements and in the Directors report.
The directors have completed their annual review and assessment for 2012.
Whilst the Audit Committee is responsible for oversight of the effectiveness Group Audit & Assurance ofthe risk management process, accountability for identifying and managing Group Audit & Assurance is an internal function which provides risks rests with the chief executive and is cascaded throughout the Group independent and objective assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness through the Executive Committee.
ofthe Groups systems for risk management, internal control and governance together with recommendations to improve the efficiency Internal risk control systems andeffectiveness of the relevant systems and processes.
The function Two of the Groups management committees, the Executive Committee and has adopted international auditing standards set by the Institute of the Disclosure and Procedures Committee, regularly review reports related Internal Auditors IIA.
tothe Groups control framework in order to satisfy the internal control requirements of the Code, the ASX Principles, the NYSE Standards and section The function operates independently of management, under a mandate 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
Each year, the leaders of the Groups approved by the Audit Committee and the Sustainability Committee and businesses and functions complete an Internal Control Questionnaire that has full access to all functions, records, property and personnel of the seeks to confirm that adequate internal controls are in place, are operating Group.
The head of Group Audit & Assurance reports functionally to both effectively and are designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, the Audit Committee and Sustainability Committee, providing each if any exist, and that action is taken promptly, as appropriate.
The results Committee with information relevant to their specific terms of reference.
of the internal control evaluation are presented to the Audit Committee in A risk-based approach is used to focus assurance activities on high-risk support of their review of the Groups internal controls.
The Group Audit & areas and audit plans are presented annually to the Audit Committee and Assurance function performs reviews of the integrity and effectiveness of Sustainability Committee for approval.
control activities and provides regular reports to the Audit Committee, Sustainability Committee and other management committees.
In respect of its internal audit function, Rio Tinto utilises the services ofexternal service providers.
The Audit Committee has a policy which In 2012, information was reported by management to the Audit addresses conflicts of interest in relation to management requested Committee to enable it to assess the effectiveness of the internal controls engagements of the service provider.
The policy complies with the IIAs and the management of material business risks.
In addition, as part of standards on independence.
Certain services are pre-approved under the their role, the board and its committees routinely monitor the Groups policy as they would not be in conflict with the internal auditors role.
There is a list of prohibited services which may not be undertaken without Due to the limitations inherent in any risk management system, the approval of the head of Group Audit & Assurance, and guidance on the process for identifying, evaluating and managing the material business consideration of services which may give rise to a conflict of interest.
risks is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and to provide Financial reporting reasonable, but not absolute assurance, against material misstatement Financial statements orloss.
Certain risks, for example natural disasters, cannot be managed The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each to an acceptable degree using internal controls.
Such major risks are financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of transferred to third parties in the international insurance markets, to the theGroup as at the end of the financial period, and the profit or loss and extent considered appropriate.
The Group has material investments in a cash flows for that period.
This includes preparing financial statements in number of jointly controlled entities and associates.
Where Rio Tinto does accordance with UK company law which give a true and fair view of the not have managerial control, it cannot guarantee that local management state of the Companys affairs, and preparing a Remuneration report of mining and related assets will comply with Rio Tinto standards or which includes the information required by Regulation 11, Schedule 8 objectives.
The review of their internal controls is less comprehensive ofthe Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and than that of the Groups managed operations.
Reports Regulations 2008 and the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
Auditors and internal assurance The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records, As indicated in the report of the Audit Committee on page 75, RioTinto inaccordance with UK and Australian legislation.
They have a general has adopted policies designed to uphold the independence of the Groups responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to external auditors by prohibiting their engagement to provide other safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other accounting and other professional services that might compromise their irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for ensuring that appropriate appointment as independent auditors.
systems are in place to maintain and preserve the integrity of the Groups The engagement of the external auditors to provide statutory audit website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination services, other services pursuant to legislation, taxation services and offinancial statements may differ from current and future legislation in riotinto.
com 81 Corporate governance continued otherjurisdictions.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of such developments and, accordingly, the external auditors accept no responsibility for any changes, should any be made, to the financial statements after they are made available on the website.
The directors, senior executives, senior financial managers and other members of staff who are required to exercise judgment in the course ofthe preparation of the financial statements are required to conduct themselves with integrity and honesty and in accordance with the ethical standards of their profession and or the business.
The directors consider that the 2012 Annual report presents a true and fair view and has been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, using the most appropriate accounting policies for Rio Tintos business and supported by reasonable judgments and estimates.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied.
The directors have received a written statement from the chief executive and the chief financial officer to this effect.
In accordance with the internal control requirements of the Code and the ASX Principles Recommendation 7.3, this written statement relies on a sound system of risk management andinternal controls and confirms that the system is operating effectively in all material respects in relation to financial reporting risks.
Disclosure controls and procedures The Group maintains disclosure controls and procedures as such term isdefined in US Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e. Management, with the participation of the chief executive and chief financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 b as of the end of the period covered by this report and has concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures were effective ata reasonable assurance level.
Managements report on internal control over financial reporting The management of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
The Companies internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of their common chief executive and chief financial officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of the Groups published financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance, and may not prevent or detect all misstatements whether caused by error or fraud, if any, within each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
The Groups internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of each of the Companies: and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of the Groups assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements.
Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2012, based on the Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO, and concluded that it was effective.
There were no changes in the internal controls over financial reporting that occurred during the period that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the internal controls over financial reporting of each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
