Corporate governance report The UK Corporate Governance Code Corporate Governance All directors are responsible under the law for the proper Code was published by the Financial Reporting Council in conduct of the Companys affairs.
The directors are also May 2010.
The Company complied throughout the year with responsible for ensuring that the strategies proposed by the the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code.
executive directors are discussed in detail and assessed critically to ensure they are aligned with the long-term interests of The Company is committed to maintaining high standards shareholders and are compatible with the interests of employees, of corporate governance.
The Board recognises that it is customers and suppliers.
The Board has reserved to itself those accountable to the Companys shareholders for corporate matters which reinforce its control of the Company.
These governance and this statement describes how the Company has include treasury policy, acquisitions and disposals, appointment applied the relevant principles of the Corporate Governance Code.
and removal of directors or the company secretary, appointment and removal of the auditor and approval of the annual accounts The Board and the quarterly financial reports to shareholders.
The Companys Board comprises the non-executive chairman, Regular reports and briefings are provided to the Board, by the the chief executive, the finance director, the executive heads executive directors and the company secretary, to ensure the of Sunbelt and A-Plant, the senior independent non-executive directors are suitably briefed to fulfil their roles.
The Board director and three other independent non-executive directors.
normally meets six times a year and there is contact between Short biographies of the directors are given on pages 32 and 33. meetings to advance the Companys activities.
It is the Boards The chairman undertakes leadership of the Board by agreeing usual practice to meet regularly with the senior executives Board agendas and ensures its effectiveness by requiring of Sunbelt and A-Plant.
The directors also have access to the the provision of timely, accurate and clear information on all company secretary and are able to seek independent advice aspects of the Groups business, to enable the Board to take at the Companys expense.
sound decisions and promote the success of the business.
As this will be the first Annual General Meeting since her The chairman, assisted by other directors, reviews the appointment, Suzanne Wood will offer herself for election.
effectiveness of each member of the Board no less than The remaining directors, save for Ian Robson who will retire annually and facilitates constructive relationships between from the Company in July 2012, will retire at this years Annual the executive and non-executive directors through both formal General Meeting and will offer themselves for re-election and informal meetings.
in accordance with the Corporate Governance Code.
The chairman ensures that all directors are briefed properly to enable them to discharge their duties effectively.
All newly New Group finance director appointed directors undertake an induction to all parts of the Suzanne Wood has been chief financial officer of Sunbelt Rentals Groups business.
Additionally, detailed management accounts Inc. since 2003 and will be appointed by the Board as a director are sent monthly to all Board members and, in advance of all of Ashtead Group plc in July 2012.
In view of Suzannes in-depth Board meetings, an agenda and appropriate documentation knowledge of the Sunbelt operation and the Groups financial in respect of each item to be discussed is circulated.
structure and policies, the Nominations Committee and the The chairman facilitates effective communication with Board unanimously considered that Suzanne was best suited shareholders through both the Annual General Meeting and for the position as the Groups finance director.
by being available to meet with major shareholders, to develop an understanding of the views of the investors in the business.
Non-executive directors He also ensures that shareholders have access to other In the recruitment of non-executive directors, it is the Companys directors, including non-executive directors, as appropriate.
practice to utilise the services of an external search consultancy.
Before appointment, non-executive directors are required to The chief executives role is to provide entrepreneurial assure the Board that they can give the time commitment leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and necessary to fulfil properly their duties, both in terms of effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and availability to attend meetings and discuss matters on the managed.
The chief executive undertakes the leadership and telephone and meeting preparation time.
The non-executives responsibility for the direction and management of the day-toletters of appointment will be available for inspection at the day business and conduct of the Group.
In doing so, the chief Annual General Meeting.
executives role includes, but is not restricted to, implementing Board decisions, delegating responsibility, and reporting to the The non-executive directors including the chairman meet Board regarding the conduct, activities and performance of the as and when required in the absence of the executive directors Group.
The chief executive chairs the Sunbelt and A-Plant board to discuss and appraise the performance of the Board as a whole meetings and sets policies and direction to maximise returns and the performance of the executive directors.
with the Code, the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent non-executive director, also meet at least annually in the absence of the chairman to discuss and appraise his performance.
Non-executive directors are appointed for specified terms not exceeding three years and are subject to re-election and the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the removal of a director.
36 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 The principal non-audit fees paid to the Companys auditor, Performance evaluation Deloitte LLP, for the year relate to their review of the Companys The performance of the chairman, the chief executive, the interim results and tax advice.
The Audit Committee is satisfied Board and its committees is evaluated, amongst other things, that the nature of work undertaken and the level of non-audit against their respective role profiles and terms of reference.
fees did not impair their independence.
The executive directors are evaluated additionally against the agreed budget for the generation of revenue, profit and value Deloitte LLP was appointed external auditor in 2004.
Committee is recommending to the Board that a proposal be put to shareholders at the 2012 Annual General Meeting for the The evaluation of the chairman, the Board and its committees reappointment of Deloitte.
There are no contractual restrictions was conducted by way of a questionnaire completed by all of on the Companys choice of external auditor and in making its the directors, the results of which were collated by the company recommendation the Committee took into account, amongst secretary and presented to the entire Board.
Based on this other matters, the objectivity and independence of Deloitte, evaluation, the Board concluded that performance in the past as noted above, and their continuing effectiveness and cost.
The Audit Committees terms of reference will be available for It is the Boards intention to have its and its committees inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
performance evaluation conducted by an external third party during the forthcoming year.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises Michael Burrow Board committees chairman, Hugh Etheridge, Bruce Edwards and Ian Sutcliffe.
The Committee meets as and when required during the year to Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Hugh Etheridge chairman, set the compensation packages for the executive directors, to establish the terms and conditions of the executive directors who has relevant financial experience, Michael Burrow and Ian Sutcliffe.
By invitation, the Groups finance director and its deputy employment and to set remuneration policy generally.
finance director normally attend the Committees meetings, as do Chris Cole and Geoff Drabble normally attend the meetings the chairman and chief executive, together with representatives of the Committee to assist it in its work.
The Committee also of our external auditor.
engages remuneration consultants to advise it in its work as The Audit Committee met on four occasions during the year.
External professional advice was obtained The principal areas considered by the Committee since the last in the year from  LLP PwC.
annual report included: None of the members of the Remuneration Committee is the results for the periods ended 31 July 2011, 31 October 2011 currently or has been at any time one of the Companys executive directors or an employee.
None of the executive directors and 31 January 2012 and for the year ended 30 April 2012: currently serves, or has served, as a member of the board of the external audit plan and key areas of audit focus for the directors of any other company which has one or more of its year ended 30 April 2012: executive directors serving on the Companys Board or Remuneration Committee.
reports from the external auditor, Deloitte, related to the results for the six months ended 31 October 2011 and the year The Remuneration Committees terms of reference will be ended 30 April 2012.
The Committee considered the work done available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
and the key accounting estimates and principal judgemental Nomination Committee accounting and reporting issues: The Nomination Committee comprises Chris Cole chairman, the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of Deloitte Geoff Drabble, Hugh Etheridge, Michael Burrow, Bruce Edwards and, in that context, the level of audit and non-audit fees paid and Ian Sutcliffe.
The Nomination Committee meets as and when to them.
The Committee was satisfied as to their independence, required to consider the structure, the size and composition of objectivity and effectiveness: the Board of directors.
the frequency and scope of internal audit.
Reflecting the The Nomination Committees terms of reference will be available stable control environment it was decided to defer the internal for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
audit work programme to 2012 13: Attendance at Board and Committee meetings held between audit plans and reports from the internal operational auditors 1 May 2011 and 30 April 2012 responsible for auditing detailed operational controls at a Board Audit Remuneration Nomination store level: Number of meetings held 6 4 4 1 the Group risk register and reports on the work of the Group Chris Cole 6 1 Risk Committee: Sat Dhaiwal 6 the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and financial Geoff Drabble 6 1 reporting policies: and Brendan Horgan 6 Ian Robson 6 reports on matters referred through the Groups whistle-blowing procedures and any actions taken following Michael Burrow 6 4 4 1 appropriate investigation.
Bruce Edwards 6 3 1 Hugh Etheridge 6 4 4 1 Ian Sutcliffe 6 4 4 1 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 37 Corporate governance report Finance and Administration Committee In a group of the size, complexity and geographical diversity of The Finance and Administration Committee comprises Chris Ashtead, minor breakdowns in established control procedures Cole, Geoff Drabble chairman and Ian Robson.
There are supporting policies and procedures for directors has delegated authority to this committee to deal with investigation and management of control breakdowns at any routine financial and administrative matters between Board of the Groups stores or elsewhere.
The Audit Committee also meetings.
The Committee meets as necessary to perform its meets regularly with the external auditor to discuss their work.
role and has a quorum requirement of two members with certain In relation to internal financial control, the Groups control and matters requiring the participation of Chris Cole, non-executive monitoring procedures include: chairman, including, for example, the approval of material announcements to the London Stock Exchange.
the maintenance and production of accurate and timely financial management information, including a monthly profit and loss account and selected balance sheet data for each store: Internal control The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups the control of key financial risks through clearly laid down system of internal control and confirm they have reviewed its authority levels and proper segregation of accounting duties effectiveness.
In doing so, the Group has taken note of the at the Groups accounting support centres: relevant guidance for directors, namely the Turnbull Guidance.
the preparation of a monthly financial report to the Board: The Board confirms that there is a process for identifying, the preparation of an annual budget and periodic update evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
forecasts which are reviewed by the executive directors This process has been in place for the full financial year and is and then by the Board: ongoing.
Under its terms of reference the Group Risk Management Committee meets semi-annually or more frequently if required, a programme of rental equipment inventories and full with the objective of encouraging best risk management practice inventory counts conducted at each store by equipment type across the Group and a culture of regulatory compliance and independently checked on a sample basis by our operational ethical behaviour.
The Group Risk Management Committee auditors and external auditor: reports annually to the Audit Committee.
These processes detailed internal audits at the Groups major accounting accord with the Turnbull Guidance.
centres undertaken periodically by internal audit specialists The Board considers that the Groups internal control system from a major international accounting firm: is designed appropriately to manage, rather than eliminate, the comprehensive audits at the stores generally carried out risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Any such control annually by internal operational audit.
A summary of this system, however, can only provide reasonable and not absolute work is provided annually to the Audit Committee: and assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
a review of arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, The Group reviews the risks it faces in its business and how raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of these risks are managed.
These reviews are conducted in financial reporting or other matters.
conjunction with the management teams of each of the Groups businesses and are documented in an annual report.
The Statement of directors responsibilities reviews consider whether any matters have arisen since the last report was prepared which might indicate omissions or The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable inadequacies in that assessment.
It also considers whether, as a result of changes in either the internal or external environment, law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with any new significant risks have arisen.
The Group Risk Committee reviewed the draft report for 2012, which was then presented to, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations discussed and approved by the Audit Committee and the Group Board on 18 June 2012. and have also elected to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance with IFRS.
Company law requires the Before producing the statement on internal control for the directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2012, with IFRS and the Companies Act.
the Board reconsidered the operational effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
In particular, through the Audit Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts Committee, it received reports from the operational audit teams unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of and considered the status of implementation of internal control the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of improvement recommendations made by the Groups internal the Company for that period.
IAS 1, Presentation of Financial auditors and its external auditor.
The control system includes Statements, requires that financial statements present fairly written policies and control procedures, clearly drawn lines of for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial accountability and delegation of authority, and comprehensive performance and cash flows.
This requires the representation reporting and analysis against budgets and latest forecasts.
of the effects of transactions, as well as other events and conditions, in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
38 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be The Groups debt facilities are committed for a weighted average achieved by compliance with all applicable International period of 4.1 years as of 30 April 2012 with the earliest significant Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: maturity being the ABL facility which continues until March 2016.
The Group finances its day-to-day activity via the recently properly select and apply accounting policies: enlarged ABL facility under which excess availability totalled present information, including accounting policies, in a $735m at year end pro forma for Junes $400m facility upsize manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and to $1.8bn.
Taking account of reasonably possible changes in understandable information: trading performance, used equipment values and the other factors that might impact availability, the Group expects to provide additional disclosures when compliance with the maintain significant headroom under the ABL facility for the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users forthcoming year.
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and After making enquiries, the directors therefore have a financial performance: and reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue future and consequently that it is appropriate to adopt the going as a going concern.
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting By order of the Board records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors Eric Watkins report and directors remuneration report which comply with Company secretary the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
20 June 2012 The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge: the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Shareholders should note that legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern The Groups operations and financial condition, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and condition are set out in the Business and financial review on pages 6 to 25.
In particular, the Groups financial management and cash flow, including details of the Groups banking facilities are set out on pages 23 and 24.
In addition, note 23 to the financial statements describes the Groups financial risk management policies and processes, including its exposure to interest rate risk, currency exchange risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 39
