40 Governance Board of directors Sir Simon Robertson John Rishton Iain Conn Dame Helen Alexander Lewis Booth CBE Peter Byrom Sir Frank Chapman John McAdam 2 Sir Simon Robertson 71 non-executive director of 2011 and Deputy President until External appointments: Lewis is a Non-executive Chairman, Rolls-Royce in 2007 and served as June 2012: she has also been a nondirector of Mondelez International, appointed January 2005 chairman of the audit committee executive director of Northern Inc. Gentherm Inc. and of University and a member of the ethics and Foods plc, BT plc and Centrica plc.
of Liverpool in America Inc.
Skills and experience: Sir Simon nomination committees.
He is a Dame Helen was awarded a CBE 2,4 brings to the Board an international Peter Byrom 68 former non-executive director of for services to publishing in 2004 corporate advisory background with Non-executive director, Allied Domecq.
and was made a Dame Commander a wealth of experience in mergers appointed January 1997 of the Order of the British Empire for and acquisitions, merchant banking, External appointments: Unilever her services to business in Skills and experience: Peter was investment banking and financial have announced that John will June 2011. a director of AMEC plc from 2005 markets.
During his career he has be proposed to join the boards of to 2011 and of NM Rothschild & worked in France, Germany, the UK Unilever NV and Unilever plc at External appointments: Dame Sons Limited from 1977 to 1996. and the US.
He is the former the AGMs of those companies in Helen is Chairman of UBM plc, the He is a Fellow of the Royal Managing Director of Goldman May 2013.
Port of London Authority PLA and Aeronautical Society.
Sachs International and former Incisive Media.
She is also deputy 1,2, 6 Iain Conn 50 Chairman of Dresdner Kleinwort chairman of esure Group Holdings, External appointments: Peter is Senior Independent Director, Benson.
In June 2010, he was senior adviser to Bain Capital and Chairman of Domino Printing appointed January 2005 honoured with a knighthood a Director of the CBI.
in recognition of his services is Chancellor of the University of Skills and experience: Iain joined 2,3, 6 Sir Frank Chapman 59 to business.
the BP group in 1986 and has held a Southampton and she is currently Non-executive director, involved with a number of other number of executive positions External appointments: Sir Simon is appointed November 2011 within the BP Group worldwide.
not-for-profit organisations in the founder member of Robertson media, the internet, the arts Skills and experience: Sir Frank has Robey Associates LLP and Deputy External appointments: Iain is worked in the oil and gas industry and education.
Chairman and Senior Independent Group Managing Director and for 38 years including appointments 1, 2,4 Director of HSBC Holdings plc.
He is Chief Executive of Refining and Lewis Booth CBE 64 within Royal Dutch Shell plc and BP a non-executive director of Berry Non-executive director, Marketing, BP p. l. c. He is Chairman p. l. c. He was Chief Executive of BG Bros & Rudd Limited, The Economist of the Advisory Board of The appointed May 2011 Group plc for 12 years until Newspaper Limited and Troy Asset Imperial College Business School December 2012.
Sir Frank graduated Skills and experience: Lewis is the Management.
He is a Trustee of The and a member of the Imperial with first class honours in former Executive Vice President and Eden Project and of the Royal Opera College Council.
Iain is also a Mechanical Engineering from Chief Financial Officer CFO of Ford House Endowment Fund.
member of the Energy and Climate Queen Mary College, London Motor Company, a position he held Change Board, CBI and a member of 2,5 John Rishton 54 University and is a Fellow of the for over three years until his the advisory boards of the Centre Royal Academy of Engineering, the Chief Executive, retirement from the company in for European Reform and of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers appointed March 2011 April 2012.
During his 34-year career Centre for China in the World and the Energy Institute.
at Ford he held a series of senior Skills and experience: John began Economy at Tsinghua University.
positions in Europe, Asia, Africa and 2,3, 6 his career in 1979 at Ford Motor John McAdam 64 2,3, 4 the United States.
Lewis began his Dame Helen Alexander 56 Company and held a variety of Non-executive director, Non-executive director, appointed career with British Leyland, before positions in the UK and in Europe.
appointed February 2008 joining Ford in 1978.
He was September 2007 In 1994 he joined British Airways Skills and experience: John was the awarded a CBE in June 2012 for Plc, where he was Chief Financial Skills and Experience: Chief Executive of ICI plc until ICIs services to the UK automotive and Officer from 2001 to 2005.
In 2006, Dame Helen was Chief Executive of acquisition by Akzo Nobel.
he was appointed CFO at Royal the Economist Group until 2008, held a number of positions at Ahold and became CEO in 2007. having joined the company in 1985.
Unilever, within its Birds Eye Walls, John was appointed as a She was President of the CBI until R olls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012 Governance 41 Governance Board of directors John Neill CBE Jasmin Staiblin Ian Strachan James Guyette Mark Morris Colin Smith CBE Nigel Goldsworthy 5 Quest International and External appointments: Jasmin is a Mark Morris Age 49 Committee membership 1 Unichema International businesses non-executive director of Georg Chief Financial Officer, Audit committee 2 and is a former non-executive Fischer AG, ETH Domain and Neue appointed January 2012 Nomination committee 3 director of Severn Trent plc and Aarguer Bank a member of the Remuneration committee Mark joined Rolls-Royce in 1986.
Ethics committee He has held a number of senior 5 Risk committee 1,2, 4 positions throughout the Company External appointments: John is Ian Strachan 69 6 Safety committee and prior to his appointment as Chairman of United Utilities Group Non-executive director, Denotes chairman of committee Chief Financial Officer was Group PLC and Rentokil Initial plc and the appointed September 2003 Treasurer from 2001.
Senior Independent Director of Skills and experience: Ian is the Non-executive directors J Sainsbury plc.
5 Colin Smith CBE 57 former Chief Executive of BTR plc, 1,2 Director Engineering and Executive directors John Neill CBE 65 former Deputy Chief Executive and Technology, appointed July 2005 Non-executive director, Chief Financial Officer of Rio Tinto Company Secretary appointed November 2008 plc, former non-executive Chairman Skills and experience: Colin joined of Instinet Group Inc and a former Rolls-Royce in 1974.
He has held a Skills and experience: John is a non-executive director of Johnson variety of key positions within the member of the Council and Board of Matthey plc, Commercial Union and Company, including Director Business in the Community, is Vice Reuters Group plc.
Research and Technology and President of the Society of Motor Director of Engineering and Manufacturers and Traders, BEN, External appointments: Ian is a Technology Civil Aerospace.
Colin the automotive industry charity and non-executive director of Xstrata is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of The Institute of the Motor Industry.
plc, Transocean Inc and Caithness Engineering, the Royal Aeronautical He was formerly a Director of the Petroleum Limited.
Society and the Institution of Bank of England and a non- 5 James Guyette 67 Mechanical Engineers.
He is also a executive Director of the Royal Mail President and Chief Executive Member of the Council for Science and Charter International plc.
He Officer of Rolls-Royce North America and Technology.
In June 2012 he was awarded a CBE in June 1994.
Inc. appointed January 1998 was awarded a CBE for services to External appointments: John is UK engineering.
Skills and Experience: Before the Chairman and Group Chief joining the Company, Jim was Nigel Goldsworthy 47 Executive of the Unipart Group Executive Vice President, Marketing Company Secretary & Head of Legal of Companies.
and Planning of United Airlines.
appointed December 2012 2,4 Jasmin Staiblin 42 External appointments: Jim is Skills and experience: A solicitor, Non-executive director, Chairman of PrivateBancorp Inc. Nigel has held a number of senior appointed May 2012 of Chicago, Illinois and he is lead legal and company secretary roles Skills and experience: Jasmin is the independent director of priceline.
within the Company and, before his CEO of Alpiq Holding AG and was com Inc of Norwalk, Connecticut.
He appointment as Company Secretary CEO of ABB Switzerland Ltd until is also Chairman of the Smithsonian & Head of Legal, was Deputy December 2012.
She has lived and National Air & Space Museum, General Counsel from 2008.
Before worked in Switzerland, Sweden Washington DC.
joining Rolls-Royce in 2004, Nigel and Australia.
was a partner in the banking group of Lovells now Hogan Lovells.
R olls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012
