Governance 49 Governance Nomination committee report However, diversity means much more than gender and we recognise that appointments should reflect the increasing range and I have absolutely no doubt that Ian Davis geographical spread of activities carried out by the Group.
In May has all the required attributes to lead 2012, we were pleased to announce the appointment of Jasmin Staiblin, a German national and currently Chief Executive of Alpiq, the Company to even greater success in one of Europes leading energy companies.
Jasmins appointment the future brings to the Board an exceptionally talented individual with broad and relevant international engineering experience.
In addition to the work described above, the committee also carried out the following tasks during the year: received papers on senior executive development and leadership team success and a detailed assessment of current diversity across the Group: considered time commitments and potential conflicts faced by directors who wished to take up non-executive positions on the boards of other companies: Sir Simon Robertson reviewed its own terms of reference: Chairman of the nomination committee considered the independence of the non-executive directors: considered the standing schedule of directors conflicts of The nomination committee, which comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the interest and recommended to the Board that such conflicts be independent non-executive directors met four times in 2012.
Attendance by the duly re-authorised: and members is shown in the table on page 44. recommended the appointment of a new company secretary.
The principal role of the nomination committee is to consider, and During the latter part of the year, Iain Conn ably led the committee recommend for approval to the Board, the appointment of suitable in its search for a suitable replacement for myself as Chairman of persons as directors of the Company and to lead the process for the Board.
An independent consultant, MWM Boardroom such appointments.
The committee is also responsible for reviewing Consulting LLP, was again appointed to conduct the search having and overseeing senior management development to ensure orderly assisted in the process which led to Jasmins appointment earlier in succession planning at and immediately below Board level.
I am pleased to report that this process has resulted in the announcement on 14 February 2013 of the appointment of Ian During the year, the committee continued to develop its succession Davis to the Board, effective 1 March 2013.
He will succeed me as plans for new non-executive directors taking into account their Chairman at the conclusion of the AGM.
I have absolutely no doubt respective tenures of office as far forward as 2020, analysing the that Ian Davis has all the required attributes to lead the Group to skills which were either missing or could be missing in future and even greater success in the future.
how different personalities would fit around the board table.
Sir Simon Robertson The committee continues to be mindful of the diversity agenda Chairman of the nomination committee in its candidate selection process.
In September 2011, we issued our response to the Davies Report on women on boards stating that we expected to make demonstrable progress in this area by 2015.
We are committed to improving diversity at all levels of leadership in Rolls-Royce and to making appointments based on merit at the most senior levels of our organisation.
We recognise the importance of gender diversity in the boardroom and the valuable contribution that women make in achieving the right mix of skills, knowledge and experience that enables us to maximise our corporate potential.
We continue to participate in the FTSE 100 Cross Company Mentoring Programme, the objective of which is to increase the pool of eligible senior female candidates for UK Board positions and have comprehensive programmes in place to increase the diversity of our internal pipeline of future leaders.
We have also issued guidance to executive search companies outlining the importance of diverse candidate short lists.
Further details of our gender representation can be found on page 34.
R olls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012
