52 Governance Risk committee report These reviews take place at least twice a year.
Following discussion, the committee decided that this bottom up process Focusing our attention on a smaller could be sense checked by a top down process: asking each member number of risks has led to more of the committee to identify the risks they considered would have a significant impact on the Group.
The resulting list did overlap comprehensive discussions about the with the bottom up approach but helped stimulate debate which nature of the risks that really matter led us to redefine some of the risks and produce a new list of principal risks.
to our business At the November meeting, we refined this new list of principal risks further, making changes to remove duplication and to define the risks more clearly.
We discussed how the risks had changed and also reviewed how each risk was managed, identifying where further action was required.
In January 2013, the committee concluded this major review of the number and the nature of our risks and we believe that the list we have reported on pages 18 to 19 represents the most significant John Rishton risks that would have an acute and traumatic impact on the Group Chairman of the risk committee were they to occur.
The risk committee, which consists of the executive directors, met twice in 2012.
We also resolved to develop key risk indicators to measure each of Attendance by the members is shown in the table on page 44.
During the year, the the principal risks and use them to inform us where future action General Counsel & Head of Risk and the Head of Enterprise Risk Management also attended the meetings.
These will complement the key performance indicators shown on pages 16 to 17.
Summary During the course of our meetings this year, the committee Group risk process has spent time discussing and agreeing the most significant risks The risk process is part of our quality management system that all that the Group faces.
We have condensed the 17 risks listed in our parts of the business must follow and it is shown below.
last annual report to the eight that can be found on pages 18 to 19.
Each of these risks is owned by specific members of my executive 1.
We reviewed and challenged ourselves as to how these risks were managed.
5. Review, Development of principal risks control and communicate At the June 2012 committee meeting, we performed our usual task of considering any potential changes to the full corporate risk register.
The risk register comprises those risks that are escalated to 6.
Close out the committee following reviews carried out by the underlying business units, programmes and functions.
The General Counsel & Head of Risk now leads our enterprise wide risk team which is responsible for the risk policy and processes.
Risk committee Line ownership for risk management is devolved into our business units and functions, supported by a network of risk champions and risk managers.
Businesses Functions I am pleased with the level of active debate that we have had about risk this year.
Focusing our attention on a smaller number of risks has helped us to have more comprehensive discussions about the Business units nature of the risks that really matter to our business and to communicate these throughout the Group.
Programmes Our attention next year will be on developing further measures by which the status of these risks can be assessed.
John Rishton Work packages Chairman of the risk committee R olls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012
