Governance 43 Governance Corporate governance report This report, which includes the directors remuneration report on The Senior Independent Director, Iain Conn, acts as a sounding pages 57 to 67, explains how the Company discharges its corporate board for the Chairman and can act as an intermediary for other governance responsibilities.
Each year, he leads a separate meeting of the Board excluding the Chairman to review the Chairmans performance.
In In the year to 31 December 2012, the revised principles and 2012, the meeting expressed its unanimous support for Sir Simon provisions of the Code published in May 2010 by the Financial Robertson, noting the enormous amount of time, effort and energy Reporting Council FRC applied to the Company.
A printed copy of he contributed outside of the boardroom.
During the year, Iain Conn the Code can be obtained free of charge from FRC Publications, 145 also led the process to seek a replacement for Sir Simon, taking the London Road, Kingston upon Thames, Surrey KT2 6SR telephone: chair when appropriate at meetings of the nomination committee.
The Board confirms that throughout 2012, the Company complied Role and operation of the Board with the provisions of the Code, with the following exception: The principal role of the Board is to ensure that the Groups strategy creates long-term success for the Group within an acceptable risk Code provision Explanation profile and providing value for the long-term investor.
C. 3.4 The audit committee should The Board considered it appropriate review arrangements by which staff that this provision of the Code be To achieve its long-term success, the Board must: of the company may, in confidence, the primary responsibility of the raise concerns about possible ethics committee although that improprieties in matters of financial committee is required to refer ensure the safety of its products and its people: reporting or other matters.
concerns about possible oversee and approve the development of the Groups strategy, improprieties in matters of monitoring both its achievement and the Groups risk appetite: financial reporting to the uphold the values of the Group, including its brand and corporate audit committee.
reputation: oversee the quality and performance of management and ensure Board membership it is maintained at world-class standards, through effective There are currently 14 directors on the Board comprising the succession planning and remuneration policies: and non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, three other executive maintain an effective corporate governance framework, with directors and nine non-executive directors.
During the year, transparent reporting.
Mark Morris took up the post of Chief Financial Officer on 1 January 2012 and Jasmin Staiblin was appointed as an additional The Board has established a formal schedule of matters reserved for non-executive director on 21 May 2012.
Two directors retired in the its approval, generally being those items which affect the shape and year, Sir Peter Gregson did not seek re-election at the annual risk profile of the Group, as well as items such as the annual budget general meeting AGM on 4 May 2012 and Mike Terrett retired and performance targets, the financial statements, payments to on 31 December 2012. shareholders, major capital investments, substantial changes to balance sheet management policy and the strategic plan.
On 14 February 2013, the Board announced Sir Simon Robertsons intention to retire as Chairman and as a non-executive director at John Rishton, as the Chief Executive, is responsible for the day-tothe conclusion of the AGM on 2 May 2013.
In addition, Ian Strachan day leadership, operational and performance management of the and Peter Byrom will not be seeking re-election as non-executive Group within the confines of the strategic and business plans and directors at that meeting.
Under Article 112 of the Companys budgets agreed by the Board.
The delegation of responsibilities to articles of association, all directors with the exception of Sir Simon the executive team is set out in a detailed schedule approved by the Robertson, Peter Byrom and Ian Strachan will offer themselves for Chief Executive.
Ian Davis will be appointed as an additional non-executive director on 1 March 2013 and will take The work of the Board in 2012 over as Chairman at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
During 2012, the Board held 11 meetings, seven of which were scheduled and a further four called at short notice.
At each The process for Board succession is discussed in the nomination scheduled meeting, executive directors supplied reports on committee report on page 49. business and financial performance including the usual approval of financial statements and budgets.
The Board also received regular Roles and responsibilities updates on HS&E issues, employee issues and legal issues including The Board has a written remit for the Chairman, Sir Simon a review of its governance arrangements.
In addition, the chairman Robertson, who has responsibility for the running of the Board of each of the board committees provided verbal reports on matters and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive, John Rishton, discussed by that committee since the previous Board meeting.
has responsibility for running the business.
This division of responsibility ensures that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
In addition, the Board has agreed a set of guiding principles to govern the relationship between the Chairman and Chief Executive which, for example, requires that the two roles are structured in a complementary manner and demands that the relationship between the two be based on mutual respect and trust and be frank and open.
R olls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012 44 Governance Corporate governance report On 18 September 2012, the Board held its annual day-long strategy potential new and re-core engine developments: meeting, which included discussions on each of the business potential new facilities such as the new indoor test bed for segments and presentations on the ten-year financial plan and the Dahlewitz and a facility in Brazil: development of the Groups overall strategy, vision, brand promise the acquisition of the remaining shares in the Aero Engine and values.
The September meeting was held in the Groups offices Controls joint venture from the Goodrich Corporation: in Reston, US and was followed by a visit to its Crosspointe facility, the future of the tidal engineering and fuel cells businesses: which included a tour of the newly established Commonwealth potential acquisitions particularly in the nuclear sector: Centre for Advanced Manufacturing nearby.
a presentation from Dr Hamid Mughal describing the global network of Advanced Manufacturing Research Centres: In addition to its routine business, matters considered by the Board a review of the Groups tax affairs which included the renewal of in 2012 included: taxation policy a statement of which can be found on page 37: IT infrastructure update: and the Eurozone crisis: an investor relations presentation which included the results of defence strategy: the 2012 investor audit.
concerns about bribery and corruption involving intermediaries in overseas markets: Board and committee attendance The attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and its committees in 2012 is shown in the table below: Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Ethics Risk Safety Sir Simon Robertson Chairman 11 11 4 4 Dame Helen Alexander 10 11 3 3 3 4 5 5 Lewis Booth CBE 11 11 4 4 4 4 5 5 Peter Byrom 11 11 4 4 5 5 1 Sir Frank Chapman 8 11 2 3 3 4 1 2 Iain Conn 10 11 4 4 4 4 2 2 2 Sir Peter Gregson 2 3 1 1 0 1 James Guyette 11 11 2 2 John McAdam 10 11 3 3 4 4 2 2 Mark Morris 11 11 2 2 John Neill CBE 11 11 4 4 4 4 John Rishton 11 11 3 4 2 2 Colin Smith CBE 11 11 2 2 3 Jasmin Staiblin 8 8 3 3 2 2 Ian Strachan 11 11 4 4 4 4 5 5 4 Mike Terrett CBE 11 11 2 2 Figures in brackets denote the maximum numbers of meetings that could have been attended seven Board meetings were scheduled and four called at short notice.
1 Sir Frank Chapman was unable to attend two Board meetings and three committee meetings held in December 2012 due to illness.
2 Sir Peter Gregson retired as a non-executive director at the AGM on 4 May 2012.
3 Jasmin Staiblin was appointed as a non-executive director on 21 May 2012.
4 Mike Terrett, Chief Operating Officer, retired on 31 December 2012.
Board evaluation The general consensus from the process was that the Board was The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that the Board working well under the leadership of Sir Simon Robertson and John undertakes an annual evaluation of its own performance and that Rishton.
It was considered appropriate that succession planning and of its committees and individual directors and to do so externally at the provision of information to the Board should be areas of focus least every three years.
In 2012, the evaluation process was for 2013.
Also some directors expressed the view that the Board conducted internally, a full external review having been carried out should maintain a continual watch on principal risks to avoid being by Jan Hall Associates in 2011. solely reliant on the work of the audit and risk committees.
Initially, directors were asked to complete a confidential survey Directors terms of appointment covering the areas set out as best practice in the Financial Reporting Executive directors are employees who have day-to-day Councils Guidance on Board Effectiveness March 2011.
The responsibilities as executives of the Group in addition to their Company Secretary then produced a report which consolidated the duties as directors.
Each executive director receives a service responses in such a way that individual contributions were not contract on appointment see page 60 for further information.
Following the circulation of the report to the Board, the Chairman conducted one-to-one interviews with each of them and reported to the next board meeting on the findings and agreed actions to be taken.
R olls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012 Governance 45 Governance Corporate governance report Non-executive directors are generally independent of the Company, The Group conducts a dedicated investor relations programme with are not employees and do not participate in the daily business institutional investors which includes various formal events during management of the Group.
On appointment, each non-executive the year, as well as a regular series of one-to-one and group director receives a letter setting out the conditions of his or her meetings.
The purpose of these events is to highlight a particular appointment.
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial issue, theme or announcement that the Group believes warrants term of three years, which may be extended with the agreement of further explanation or clarification.
The events also provide the Board, although reappointment is not automatic.
Their term of opportunities for shareholders to meet members of the senior office is also subject to annual re-election by shareholders at the management team to discuss topics of interest.
Examples of these AGM and will terminate without compensation if they fail to be events in 2012 were: the preliminary and half-yearly results re-elected see page 67 for further information.
announcements: the AGM: the update given at the Farnborough International Airshow on trends in the Civil and Defence aerospace Director training businesses: visits to the Groups sites: and industry conferences.
Newly appointed directors participate in a structured induction The one-to-one and group meetings provide additional context programme and receive a comprehensive data pack providing around the Groups business strategy and financial performance detailed information on the Group.
An existing executive director such that shareholders are able to consistently and fairly value the acts as a mentor to each newly appointed non-executive director, Groups businesses.
giving guidance and advice as required.
In 2012, around 340 meetings took place with over 320 separately Issues Facilitated by identifiable institutional investors.
Of those meetings, the Chief Operation of the Board and Chairman and Company Secretary Executive attended 25 meetings and the Chief Financial Officer governance 50 meetings.
From a regional perspective, the majority of meetings Group strategy development and Chief Executive took place in the UK approximately 200.
Sixty meetings occurred current issues in the US and Canada, and a further 35 meetings took place in Financial structure Chief Financial Officer Europe.
The Chairman also meets institutional investors from Risk strategy General Counsel & Head of Risk time to time when requested.
Operational strategy Operations Director Technology and Director Engineering AGM engineering issues and Technology Holders of ordinary shares may attend the Companys AGM.
The Key site visits Company Secretary Chief Executive gives a presentation highlighting key business Committee technical Committee chairmen, internal developments during the year and shareholders have an requirements or external experts opportunity to ask questions.
The chairmen of the audit, nomination, remuneration, ethics, safety and risk committees are Further training is available for all the directors, including available to answer any questions from shareholders on the work of presentations by the executive team on particular aspects of the their committees.
In 2012, our lawyers, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, held a seminar immediately following the November Board meeting The Company confirms that it sends the AGM notice and relevant updating the Board on developments in corporate law and documentation to all shareholders at least 20 working days before regulation.
In addition, there is a procedure for directors to take the date of the AGM.
For those shareholders who have consented independent professional advice at the Companys expense and to receive communications electronically, notice is given by email every director has access to the General Counsel & Head of Risk and or by written notice of the availability of documents on the the Company Secretary.
In-house training is also provided to Groups website.
directors of the Companys subsidiaries and joint ventures.
This years AGM will be held at 11.00am on Thursday, 2 May 2013 Shareholder relations at the QEII Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, Communications with shareholders regarding business strategy London SW1P 3EE.
The AGM notice and the annual report will be and financial performance are coordinated by a dedicated available to view on the Groups website.
Shareholders unable to Investor Relations department that reports to the Chief Financial attend the AGM can vote on the business of the meeting either by Officer.
Communications regarding the general administration of post or online.
shareholdings are coordinated by Company Secretariat, reporting to the Company Secretary.
Independence of the non-executive directors The Board conducts a rigorous review of the independence of the The two primary written sources of information about the non-executive directors every year, based on the criteria in the Code.
Group for shareholders are the website www.
com This review was undertaken in November 2012 and the Board and the published annual report, an online version of which is concluded that all the non-executive directors remained also available on the website.
The website also carries a wealth independent in character and judgement.
of financial and other information about the Group that includes current business strategy, historical financial data, recent The Code does not consider the test of independence to be presentation materials as well as factual data about the Groups appropriate to the chairman of a company.
However, Sir Simon businesses, products and services.
Robertson did meet the Codes independence criteria upon his appointment as Chairman in January 2005.
His other external commitments are described on page 40.
R olls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012 46 Governance Corporate governance report Conflicts of interest The GLTs responsibilities were: Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest which conflicts, or possibly may to provide input and advice to the Executive Board on policy and conflict, with the interests of the Company unless that situational strategy: conflict has been authorised by the Board.
The nomination to agree priorities and objectives in management committee has reviewed and authorised all directors situational of the Group: and conflicts and has agreed that while directors are required to keep to drive performance.
confidential all Company information, they shall not be required to share with the Company confidential information received by them The GLT regularly considered HS&E, customer relations, financial from a third party which is the subject of the situational conflict.
In addition the committee discussed a range of topics of business relevance.
This included employee Indemnity engagement, sustainability and the Global Code of Business Ethics.
The Company has entered into separate Deeds of Indemnity in favour of its directors which were in force during the financial year In January 2013, the Executive Board and Group Leadership Team and remained in force at the date of this report.
The deeds provide were combined into the Executive Leadership Team ELT.
This new substantially the same protection as that already provided to body simplifies the senior management structure, it will establish directors under the indemnity in Article 216 of the Companys clear accountability and improve decision making.
The Company has also reviewed, arranged and maintains appropriate insurance cover for any legal action taken against its directors and officers.
Board committees The Board has established a number of committees, the principal ones being audit, remuneration, nomination, ethics and risk.
A safety committee was established in 2012.
Terms of reference for each committee are available on the Groups website at www.
The membership, responsibilities and activities of these committees are described on pages 47 to 56.
Executive committees In 2012, the Executive Board, the senior decision-making committee, was made up of the executive directors.
It worked with the Board to develop Group strategy and policy, established corporate priorities, decided on senior succession.
It made recommendations to the nominations committee in relation to membership of the Executive Board and the Group Leadership Team GLT.
The membership of the GLT is described on page 42.
The Executive Board reviewed HS&E performance, customer relations, governance, financial and operational performance as well as receiving regular updates on potential acquisitions and disposals.
R olls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012
