Governance 47 Governance Audit committee report Work of the committee in 2012 The focus at the meetings in February and July 2012 was the 2011 I would like to thank committee annual report and financial statements and 2012 half-yearly results members, the executive management announcement respectively, including an evaluation of the going concern statements therein.
The May and November meetings team and our auditor for the open reviewed the interim management statements, considered matters discussions that take place at which were expected to require consideration at the following half year and full year and forthcoming changes to reporting and our meetings accounting requirements.
Since the year end, the committee has reviewed the form and content of the Groups 2012 annual report and financial statements.
In conducting its review, the committee considered reports prepared by management and the external auditors.
These reports covered analyses of the judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty involved in applying the accounting policies as described in note 1 to the financial statements.
The committee also considered the going concern statement on page 72.
The committee Lewis Booth CBE recommended the 2012 annual report to the Board.
Chairman of the audit committee Internal Audit The audit committee, which consists exclusively of independent non-executive In May and November, the Head of Internal Audit presented a directors, met four times in 2012 and attendance by the members is shown in the table summary of the reviews performed in the previous six months.
During the year, the external auditors KPMG Audit Plc, the Head of Internal Audit, the General Counsel & Head of Risk and the Acting Company Secretary attended The committee reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control the meetings, together with the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and the environment and the structure in place to resolve identified Chief Financial Officer.
Other Board members and or senior executives may also attend meetings at the invitation of the committee chairman.
The General Counsel & Head of weaknesses.
It also agreed an improved structure for internal audit Risk and the Head of Internal Audit have direct access to the committee.
reports to the committee, with an increased focus on significant issues and trends evident in the reports and the speed of their I am pleased to present the report of the audit committee for the resolution.
During the year, the committee approved a revised year.
I would like to thank committee members, the executive charter for the internal audit function, reviewed and agreed the management team and our auditor for the open discussions that work plan for 2013 and reviewed compliance with the Groups take place at our meetings and the importance they all attach to its policies in respect of expenses incurred by the directors and other work.
During 2012, the committee sought to enhance the clarity and senior executives.
focus of all the reports it receives.
Auditors A key task for 2013 will be to consider the implications of the revised During the year, the committee considered the independence and UK Corporate Governance Code.
In particular, we will assess the objectivity of KPMG and agreed the audit strategy and the audit fee.
implications of the requirement for regular audit tendering and the procedures supporting the directors responsibility report Non-audit services provided by KPMG statement that: the report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, In order to safeguard auditors independence and objectivity, the balanced and understandable and provides the information following policy is applied in relation to services provided by necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, the auditors: business model and strategy.
audit related services the auditors undertake these services as Responsibilities it is work that they must, or are best suited to, perform.
It In summary, the committee recommends the financial statements includes formalities relating to borrowings, grants, shareholder to the Board and reviews the Groups financial reporting and and other circulars, risk management services, various regulatory accounting policies, including formal announcements and trading reports and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals: statements relating to the Companys financial performance.
tax, accounting and mergers and acquisitions the auditors are It oversees the relationship with KPMG, and the role and used for this work where they are best suited to undertake it.
effectiveness of the internal audit function previously termed All other significant consulting work in these areas is put out to Business Assurance.
The committee reviews the Groups procedures tender: and for detecting, monitoring and managing the risk of fraud other advisory or consultancy services the auditors are and the Groups internal controls and systems for assessing and generally prohibited from providing these services.
Pre-approval of non-audit fees is required for non-audit fees The Boards review of the risk management process and its exceeding pre-determined thresholds which vary according to the statement on internal control as required by Internal Control: nature of the service being proposed.
Guidance for Directors published by the FRC is on pages 70 to 71.
R olls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012 48 Governance Audit committee report The committee reviews non-audit fees charged by KPMG at each meeting and annually reviews the limits for pre-approval of non-audit fees.
In particular the committee pre-approved: an engagement for KPMG to provide specialist support to internal audit during the Groups IT modernisation project while the department recruited its own personnel: and the continuation of specialist support to the IT modernisation programme that was being performed by a consultancy which was acquired by KPMG after the engagement had commenced.
Expenditure on audit and non-audit services is set out in note 7 to the financial statements.
Reappointment of auditor Each year, the committee reviews the effectiveness and performance of the external auditors with feedback from committee members, senior finance personnel and internal audit.
KPMG were appointed as auditors in 1990 and this appointment has not been subject to a tender process since that date.
The lead audit partner is required to rotate every five years and other key audit partners are required to rotate every seven years.
The current lead audit partner completed his term in 2012.
His replacement as lead audit partner has had no previous involvement with Rolls-Royce in any capacity.
No contractual obligations restrict the committees choice of external auditors.
The committee concluded that KPMG provides an effective audit and the committee and the Board have recommended their reappointment.
Resolutions to reappoint the external auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, and to authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM on 2 May 2013.
I hope that you will vote in favour of the resolutions as the directors intend to do in respect of their own shareholdings.
Other matters During the year, the committee reviewed risk management in the Marine and Civil businesses.
The committee reviewed its own terms of reference.
Private meetings During the year, the committee met privately with the Chief Financial Officer, KPMG and the Head of Internal Audit.
I also met the lead audit partner in private in advance of each meeting.
Lewis Booth CBE Chairman of the audit committee R olls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012
