Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 44 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 corporate governance The continuing success of the Rotork Group, contribution in the future.
We revised and its reputation in its markets and its updated the Terms of Reference of our relationships with its stakeholders is Audit Committee in response to changes dependent on and protected by the made to the Code and associated Guidance leadership provided by an effective board.
for Audit Committees which will apply from Good corporate governance supports the the next financial year.
We also updated our effectiveness of your board and contributes policy on non-audit fees paid to the auditor towards the long term success of our and revised and updated our whistleblowing Company.
Our revised whistleblowing policy and independent hotline to raise whistleblowing Our corporate governance report is set out concerns are to be launched in early 2013. on pages 44 to 61 and describes the roles, accountabilities and expectations for our I believe that good corporate governance, directors and Board structures.
In the table when properly applied, supports and opposite there is a summary of the business protects our business and its long term the Board considered in 2012.
We are success by creating a link, based on trust subject to the UK Corporate Governance and engagement, between Rotork and its Code Code and whilst ensuring we provide stakeholders.
It is important for governance detailed reporting, we have sought to place to focus on the entire organisation and at emphasis on explaining how the principles Rotork we seek to apply it across our of the Code are applied across our Group.
activities worldwide in a consistent and Roger Lockwood I am pleased to report that for the year unified way to create and maintain the right Chairman under review, following the appointment culture throughout our Group.
I believe this of an additional independent non-executive allows us to produce a better business.
director, we now fully comply with the Rotorks products and services are offered Code and have ensured an equal balance in many markets and territories and we between executive directors and recognise that our business activities affect independent non-executive directors.
With that in mind, we must ensure that we consistently Corporate governance highlights for do things the right way through a unified the year under review include acting approach.
Our corporate governance on our commitment, as contained in arrangements underpin this by ensuring that our announcement in response to the our people know not just what to do, but Davies Report, to achieve 25% female how to do it.
representation in our independent nonexecutive directorate.
We achieved this commitment with the appointment of Sally James in May 2012.
Sally has joined Roger Lockwood the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Chairman Committees and we look forward to her Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 45 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 Summary of 2012 Board Business February Performance and business review including a review of prospective acquisitions: Investor relations report from Chief Executive: Consideration of the Audit Committee recommendation to approve the 2011 financial statements for presentation to the shareholders for their approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM : Consideration of the 2011 financial statements and potential final dividend amount: Receipt of a presentation from the Chief Executive and Finance Director of the preliminary announcement of the 2011 final financial results: Review of 2011 corporate objectives: Receipt of a presentation from Rotork Fluid Systems divisions senior management.
Performance and business review including a review of prospective acquisitions: April Investor relations report from the Chief Executive: Consideration of the AGM proxy returns and reports and consideration of the AGM arrangements: Receipt of a presentation from Rotork Controls divisions senior management: Consideration of the Audit Committee recommendation to approve the Interim Management Statement.
Performance and business review including a review of prospective acquisitions: June Investor relations report from the Chief Executive: meeting held Discussion of the half year interim dividend: at Rotorks Group Risk Review: Indian plant Group strategy presentation by the Chief Executive: Receipt of a presentation from Rotork Indias management.
July Performance and business review including a review of prospective acquisitions: Investor relations report from the Chief Executive: Receipt of a presentation from the Chief Executive and Finance Director of the half year results: Strategy discussion: Consideration of the draft 2013 Board timetable: Receipt of presentations from Rotork Gears divisions senior management and Rotorks USA senior management.
September Performance and business review including a review of prospective acquisitions: Investor relations report from the Chief Executive: Discussion of Board Evaluation findings: Consideration of The Kay Review of UK Equity Markets and Long-Term Decision Making: Approval of appointment of joint financial advisors and corporate brokers.
November Performance and business review including a review of prospective acquisitions: Investor relations report from the Chief Executive: Approval of the 2013 budget: Consideration of proposed legislative changes relating to narrative reporting in Annual Reports and the revised UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, applying to Rotork from the next financial year: Receipt of presentations from the Group Sales and Marketing Director and Rotork Site Services Director: Consideration of the Audit Committee recommendation to approve the Interim Management Statement.
December Performance and business review including review of prospective acquisitions: Investor relations report from the Chief Executive: Discussion of potential 2012 final dividend amount: Review of effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems: Consideration of the 2012 ABI Report on Board Effectiveness and the Governments response to the Kay Review: Approval of revised Terms of Reference for the Nomination Committee and Audit Committee: Approval of Directors situational conflicts of interests disclosures: Discussion of 2012 corporate objectives: Receipt of presentation from the Group Research & Development Director and Group IT Director.
Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 46 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 Corporate Governance continued UK CoRpoRate GoveRnanCe Code CompLianCe Length of tenure of independent non-executive directors statement as at 31 december 2012 The following section on pages 44 to 61 is a summary of the system of corporate governance adopted by Rotork.
Following the appointment of an additional independent non-executive director Years in May 2012, Rotork plc complied fully with the UK Corporate Governance Code Code.
The Code is available to download at 0-3 www.
3-6 the boaRd of diReCtoRs The Board has a duty to promote the long term success of Rotork 6-9 for its shareholders.
Its role therefore includes approval of strategy, risk reviews, major contract approvals, finance matters and internal control and risk management.
The terms and conditions of appointment of directors are available for inspection during business hours at the registered office of All directors are subject to annual re-election at the Annual General Rotork plc and at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Meeting in line with the Code.
board composition Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during 2012: Rotork is led by an effective Board which consists of nine members: board audit Remuneration nomination the Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and four meeting Committee Committee Committee executive directors.
Apart from the Chairman, all non-executive directors are considered to be independent from Rotork and are no.
of meetings 10 5 3 3 appointed for an initial term of three years.
Upon the completion 1 RH Arnold 10 2 n a n a of this term, the appointment is reviewed and, if appropriate, 1 JM Davis 10 5 n a n a extended for up to a further two three year terms following which 1 1 PI France 10 5 3 3 the director normally retires.
1 GM Ogden 10 2 n a n a The biographies of the directors and details of Board committee GB Bullard 10 5 3 3 membership is set out on pages 40 to 41.
2 2 2 2 SA James 6 3 2 2 3 IG King 9 5 2 2 During 2012, the Boards membership was expanded with the 1 1 RC Lockwood 10 5 3 3 appointment of SA James as an additional independent nonJE Nicholas 10 5 3 3 executive director.
This followed a recommendation from the Nomination Committee in 2011 to appoint an additional 1.
independent non-executive director and ensures the Board has the 2.
SA James attended all meetings following her appointment in May 2012. same number of executive directors and independent non-executive 3.
IG King attended part of the April Board meeting which is included in his directors in line with the Code.
balance of independent non-executive directors and Roles and responsibilities executive directors as at 31 december 2012 There is a documented clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive to ensure that there is a balance of power and authority between leadership of the Board and executive leadership.
All directors are entitled to seek independent, professional advice at the Companys expense in order to discharge their responsibilities as Non-executive Chairman directors.
Rotork maintains appropriate directors and officers Independent non-executive insurance cover.
directors Executive directors how the boaRd opeRates effeCtiveLy board activities As part of Rotorks Board effectiveness, day to day responsibility for the running of the Company is delegated to executive management.
However, there are a number of matters where it is not considered appropriate to do this.
The Board therefore has a formal and documented schedule of matters reserved for its decision which includes: Approval of Group strategy: Major capital projects and major contracts approval: Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 47 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 Acquisition and disposal of any company, business or fixed asset in excess of agreed levels: Changes to Group corporate, capital, management or control structures or listing status: Approval of preliminary announcements and results, annual report, dividends, significant changes in accounting policies and procedures and treasury policy: Approval of bank borrowings exceeding a certain percentage of the relevant companys turnover: Undertaking an annual assessment of the Group risk control process: Making appointments and removals following Nomination Committee recommendations and changing the size and composition of the Board: Succession planning: Determining membership and chairmanship of Board Committees: Appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditor following Audit Committee recommendation : Approval of all resolutions and corresponding documentation to be put to shareholders at a general meeting: Approval of the auditor, brokers and principal corporate finance adviser: Prosecution, defence or settlement of any material litigation: and Approval of overall levels of insurance for the Group.
In 2012, the Board met seven times at scheduled meetings and three times at additional meetings to consider other business including approval of Interim Management Statements.
Key matters reserved for the Board decided at these meetings included: the appointment of SA James and approving the acquisitions of Soldo Srl and the operating companies of the Schischek Group.
The Chairman, through the Company Secretary, ensures that the Board agenda and all relevant information is circulated to the Board directors sufficiently in advance of meetings.
The Chairman and the Company Secretary discuss the agenda in detail ahead of every meeting and the Chairman and Chief Executive always have a review meeting ahead of each Board meeting.
At least once annually, the Board meets at one of Rotorks locations other than its head office in Bath.
This allows the Board, and in particular the non-executive directors, the opportunity to gain a deeper understanding of overseas businesses and their markets and to interact with local management and staff as well as to view new capital investments and acquisitions.
In 2012, the Board visited Rotorks new manufacturing facility in Chennai, India, which incorporates the Rotork Innovation and Design Engineering Centre RIDEC.
The Board met and received presentations from local management.
Location of Board meetings 2012 Chennai, India: 2011 Houston, USA: 2010 Lucca, Italy: 2009 Bilbao, Spain: 2008 Leeds, UK.
All Board directors constructively challenge executive management at Board meetings and are entitled to unfettered access to information and management across the organisation should they require it.
Rotorks executive directors understand the distinction between their roles as executive managers and as Board directors.
The Chairman facilitates discussion by ensuring that all Board members have the opportunity to fully contribute to all agenda items at Board meetings and he always seeks to obtain unanimous decisions while allowing sufficient time for discussion and then drawing discussions to a close in an orderly manner.
This means that a range of views are offered by both executive and non-executive directors, when the Board discusses any particular issue or topic.
Rotork Board members come from a variety of professional backgrounds including engineering, legal, accountancy and international sales and collectively possess significant managerial experience as well as experience of being company directors of other public limited companies.
At each Board meeting, the Board receives presentations from senior management and has the opportunity to ask questions following the presentations.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director present to the Board the content of preliminary and half year results announcements and the Board is invited to comment on and approve those announcements.
Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 48 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 Corporate Governance continued The performance of the Board is enhanced by the good working IG King is the current Senior Independent Director.
As part of his role, he annually arranges a meeting of the non-executive directors relationship between the Chief Executive and the Chairman who continue to work together to ensure that the best use of the time to appraise the Chairmans performance.
This feedback is used to discuss with the Chairman his performance.
and talents of the Board are applied at Board meetings.
diversity on the board induction and development New Board members receive a suitable and tailored induction.
This The Board carefully considered and responded to Lord Davies 2011 report, Women on Boards.
Rotork recognises the benefits that is facilitated by the Company Secretary under the direction of the Chairman.
gender diversity can bring to the boardroom and has appointed a female non-executive director, SA James, in 2012.
Consequently, In 2012, SA James was appointed as a new independent nonRotork has met its first published target of achieving 25% female representation in its independent non-executive directorate.
Her ongoing induction programme has included: Meetings with members of the Rotork Management Board and detail of the work of the Nomination Committee is provided on page 52. other senior divisional management: A tour of Rotorks Bath head office and manufacturing plant and internal control and risk management of Rotorks India plant: A Rotork Controls product training course including The Board is cognisant of its responsibility to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position.
The demonstrations of various Rotork products and apparatus: and Receipt of statutory and corporate documentation, Board Board is responsible for Rotorks system of internal control and risk management and meets at least annually to review the effectiveness policies and Board Committee minutes and resolutions from the last two years.
Internal control can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to During 2013, SA James continuing induction will include: manage the risks rather than remove them altogether.
Visits to the Rotork Fluid Systems plant in Lucca, Italy and the Rotork Gears plant in Leeds, UK: and The system covers controls which enable Rotork to respond appropriately to financial, operational, compliance and any other Attendance at a general Rotork product training course with the majority of the other non-executive directors covering all Rotork risks.
The system accords with the Turnbull Guidance, Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, and key products.
elements include: Robust assurance processes and controls over financial reporting Directors are also encouraged to continually update their professional skills and knowledge.
During 2012 the non-executive procedures: A formal schedule of reserved matters for the Board including directors had the opportunity to attend workshops provided by PwC.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee attended an responsibility for reviewing Group strategy: Clearly defined levels of authority and a division of Association of British Insurers Investment Conference which included presentations and discussions on executive remuneration.
responsibilities throughout the Group: Formal documentation procedures: The Chairman is responsible for reviewing the level and nature of training given to the Board of Directors at least annually.
A formal whistleblowing policy with an external whistleblowing hotline to be introduced in early 2013 : and performance evaluations An internal audit function made up of accountants from head office and across subsidiaries supported by regular training in During 2012 the Board undertook a detailed review of its performance, based on a written questionnaire which was designed internal audit, best practice and control procedures to monitor and identify weaknesses in internal controls.
by Vivienne Cassley, an external consultant, who also provides an analysis on the responses.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the system of The review included revisiting matters raised in 2011, and also internal control annually and reports its findings to the Board.
The focused on the approach to risk, and the way in which the Board Board then carries out its review of the system of internal control.
currently believes it is operating as a unit and is unified with each There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and member listening to and respecting the opinions of the others.
managing the significant risks faced by Rotork, details of which can Responses indicated that the Board is proactive in looking for ways be found on pages 30 to 31.
In the year under review, the annual to improve its performance, and that there has been continued review of the system of internal control identified no significant progress in all areas considered during the year under review.
For internal control failings or weaknesses.
example, in a year which saw the addition of a new operating division to the business, the Board also recruited a female, nonThe Groups key risks, changes during the year under review and executive director to the Board, which was identified in previous details of processes to manage these risks can be found on pages reviews as an objective.
Some minor changes were also made to 30 to 31. the scheduling of Board meetings which have increased the time available for discussion.
Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 49 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 ReLations with shaRehoLdeRs All Committees have authority to take external, independent Communication with shareholders is a priority for the Board and it professional advice at Rotorks expense for matters relating to the maintains a regular dialogue with its major shareholders.
Rotork discharge of their duties.
recognises the value of the UK Stewardship Code 2010.
In 2012 the Board, and in particular the Chief Executive and Finance Director met aUdit Committee with shareholders in a number of ways including: Hosting conference calls: Hosting webcasts: Attending shareholder events: Hosting investor site visits: Attending conferences and symposiums: Hosting and participating in roadshows: and Arranging ad hoc meetings with shareholders.
Through the Chief Executive, the Chairman ensures that all directors are made aware of major shareholder issues and concerns and accordingly the Chief Executive reports to the Board at each board meeting on meetings with analysts, fund managers and shareholders.
John Nicholas Rotork makes constructive use of the AGM as an opportunity to Chairman of the Audit Committee communicate with and answer questions from those shareholders Members: GB Bullard, SA James, IG King who attend in person.
The entire board is available during the meeting and for lunch following the meeting to allow direct JE Nicholas is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and has recent interaction between its directors and the shareholders.
and relevant financial experience having served as the Finance Director of Tate and Lyle plc and previously Kidde plc.
He is also a Rotork also maintains a comprehensive investor relations section member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel of the Financial on its website which provides a variety of resources for investors Reporting Council.
The Finance Director, Chief Executive, Chairman including current webcasts, presentations and press releases.
and the external auditor also regularly attend meetings by invitation.
The investors section of the website can be accessed at www.
The Audit Committee is responsible for and reviews, reports and makes recommendations to the Board on: Electronic communications are also used by Rotork to communicate The integrity of financial reporting: with its shareholders.
All shareholders have been asked whether Internal control and risk management systems including they would like to receive the Annual Report and Accounts in monitoring the effectiveness of internal audit: electronic form rather than in hard copy form.
Any shareholders The appointment, independence and effectiveness of the wishing to receive corporate documents electronically can do this by external auditor, including the policy relating to non-audit work registering for the service at www.
co. uk and clicking on and policy relating to employment of former staff of the external Register under the Portfolio section.
At the AGM Rotork will also auditor: introduce electronic proxy appointment.
The external auditors remuneration: and The whistleblowing policy.
boaRd Committees RotoRK pLC boaRd aUdit nomination RemUneRation Committee Committee Committee The Board has Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Each Committee has formal, written terms of reference which are available to download from the Rotork website at www.
com en investors index committees.
Following the appointment of SA James, all Board committees include four independent nonexecutive directors in their composition.
The Company Secretary advises and acts as Secretary to the Committees.
Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 50 Company Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 Corporate Governance continued activities of the audit Committee during the year The Audit Committee met five times during the year, a summary of principal activities is set out below.
Month Principal activities February 2012 Financial reporting review including material judgements and estimates, the draft Annual Report 2011, governance reports and draft annual results announcement: Internal control and risk management review including consideration of processes and procedures for risk management, effectiveness of internal controls and fraud risk: Review of the internal audit programme, its resourcing and effectiveness and the need for a separate internal audit function: Consideration of the external auditors activities and effectiveness including the annual audit, its views on the control environment and fraud risk management: and reappointment of the external auditor: Review of the Representation Letter and the external auditors objectivity and independence: Meeting with the external auditor by members of the Committee only: and Consideration of accounting and corporate governance developments.
April 2012 Interim Management Statement review.
July 2012 Financial reporting review including consideration of material judgements and estimates, the going concern assumption and draft interim results announcements: Internal control and risk management review including reviewing policies and procedures for preventing bribery and corruption and consideration of matters arising from internal audit reports: Review of external auditors review of the half year report and the proposed external audit scope, key risks and year end issues: Meeting with the external auditor by members of the Committee only: and Consideration of accounting and corporate governance developments.
November 2012 Interim Management Statement review: Financial reporting review including reviewing accounting policies: Internal control and risk management review including key risks and mitigating controls: processes and procedures for risk management and consideration of matters arising from internal audit reports: Review of the policy on employment of former audit staff and policy on and extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor: Consideration of the external auditors fees, engagement letter and risk of them leaving the market: Substantive approval of a revised whistleblowing policy and external hotline use: Annual review of the Audit Committees effectiveness and Terms of Reference: and Consideration of accounting and corporate governance developments.
Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 51 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 Audit Committee work in 2012 covered the following matters: Internal Control and Risk Management Review of the effectiveness of Rotorks system of internal control Financial Reporting and risk management including fraud risk management: Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of internal audit Review of the appropriateness of Rotorks financial statements including considering significant financial reporting judgements activities, including: internal audits carried out and their results: and estimates made by management taking into account reports received from the Finance Director and the external auditor to managements responses to those results: the internal audit programme and resourcing for 2012 and 2013: ensure compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards and UK company law: Reviewing the method of internal audit and considering the need for a separate internal audit function.
The Committee Review of: the annual financial statements including statements on corporate governance: internal control and risk management: concluded that the current makeup of the internal audit function being individuals from the Groups finance departments who all the half year and interim management statements: followed by a recommendation to the Board to approve these: and have distinct posts, supplemented by external resource where particular skills are needed, is appropriate: Review of the going concern statement, followed by a recommendation to the Board to approve this.
Review of Rotorks procedures for preventing bribery and corruption: and External Auditor Monitoring health and safety performance data and receiving reports from the Rotork Management Board member Review of the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and the external audit process.
The Committee oversaw responsible for health and safety practice and procedures.
the Companys relationship with the external auditor, including reviewing the engagement letter, audit fee and re-appointment of Other Issues Noting the changes in the Code and associated Guidance for the external auditor, and made recommendations to the Board to submit these matters for shareholder approval at the AGM: Audit Committees which will apply to Rotork from next financial year and updating its Terms of Reference for Board approval and Meeting with representatives from the external auditor to receive reports on independence and objectivity of the external auditor making consequent revisions to its annual schedule of work: and Review, update and the approval of a new whistleblowing policy and to ensure adequate mechanisms are in place to ensure this is maintained: including approval of the use of an independent, external whistleblowing hotline.
Determining whether the external auditor had been effective in meeting the agreed audit plan during the year including any Policy on non-audit fees work undertaken to address any changes in perceived risks: the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors handling of key Rotork recognises that certain areas or levels of work may cause conflicts with the objectivity and independence of the accounting judgements: responses to questions from the Audit Committee: and feedback about the conduct of the external external auditor.
Rotork therefore applies a policy on non-audit auditor from key finance personnel within Rotork: services provided by the external auditor which includes a The Committee considered whether to put the external audit general rule of approval from the Finance Director for contract out to tender as the incumbent partner was retiring by engagements outside the scope of the external audit to incur rotation.
The Committees assessment was that auditor fees less than 10,000: or from the Audit Committee Chairman independence and objectivity would be maintained by the for engagements outside the scope of the external audit to appointment of a new partner who would also bring a fresh incur fees exceeding 10,000 or where the aggregate perspective.
The Committee did however note the pending approvals by the Finance Director exceed 40,000 in any revisions to the Code in this regard, which will apply to Rotork financial year.
Engagements relating to tax planning to incur from next year: fees exceeding 50,000 must be approved by the Audit Review of the representation letter: Committee and engagements relating to mergers and Review and revision of the non-audit work policy setting out acquisitions to incur fees exceeding 10,000 must be approved approval procedures and levels.
Review of non-audit work by the Audit Committee.
The split between audit and non-audit fees can be found in note 8 on page 83: The policy also specifies certain activities which the external auditor Review of the policy regarding the employment of former may not undertake such as work relating to financial statements employees of the external auditor: which may be subject to external audits: or the management or Consideration of the risk of KPMG Audit plc, as external auditor, significant involvement with internal audit services.
leaving the market: Review of external audit findings: Discussion with the external auditor on: The appropriateness of accounting policies, estimates and judgements: The control environment, including fraud risk management: Meeting twice with the external auditor, without executive management present to permit an additional opportunity for an open exchange of views and feedback.
Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 52 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 Corporate Governance continued nomination Committee During the year under review, the Board appointed SA James as an additional independent non-executive director, following a recommendation from the Nomination Committee.
The appointment process began with the Board determining that it would be in the best interests of the Company to appoint an independent female non-executive director taking into account the benefits of having a balance of skills, experience and diversity, including gender.
The Nomination Committee instructed an executive search consultancy, Egon Zehnder, to search for suitable candidates in conjunction with a Sub-Committee of the Nomination Committee composed of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
A shortlist of candidates was drawn up and the Nomination Committee arranged for the shortlisted candidates to be interviewed.
Following the interviews, the Nomination Committee recommended to the Board that SA James be appointed and the Roger Lockwood Board approved this recommendation.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee Members: GB Bullard, PI France, SA James, IG King, JE Nicholas The appointment of SA James has the effect of balancing the Boards composition so that at least half of the Board are The Nomination Committee is responsible for leading the process independent non-executive directors.
for Board appointments and making recommendations to the Board: ensuring succession planning is in place: reviewing the In 2011, Rotork announced a short term objective of ensuring at balance of skills and experience on the Board: regularly reviewing least 25% female representation in its independent non-executive the structure, size and composition of the Board, including its directorate by the end of 2012 and this was achieved in the year balance of skills, knowledge and experience and making under review.
During the year, the Nomination Committee also recommended activities of the nomination Committee during the year that the Board should approve a revised process for the The Nomination Committee met three times during the year.
recommendation of appointments of new non-executive directors following constructive feedback given by the non-executive Month Principal activities directors on the process.
April 2012 Recommending to the Board that SA James be appointed as a non-executive director.
September 2012 Review of the Board Evaluation Report concerning matters relevant to the Nomination Committee: Recommending to the Board approval of revised Terms of Reference for the Nomination Committee: and Ongoing succession planning discussions.
December 2012 Approval of a revised procedure for Nomination Committee recommendations to the Board for the appointment of new non-executive directors: and Ongoing succession planning discussions.
