RPC Group Plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Principles Statement The Board recognises and fully supports the value of good corporate governance as an important factor in achieving its overall objectives.
In accordance with the Financial Services Authority UK Listing Rules a statement describing how the Company has applied the Main Principles contained in the June 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council available at www.
uk and the statements required by sections 7.1 and 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules are set out in this report together with the Directors Report, Operating and Financial Reviews, Corporate Responsibility Report and the Remuneration Report.
Statement of Compliance With the exceptions set out below, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the period under review references are given to the relevant Code provision.
D. 1.1 The performance-related element of the remuneration of executive directors does not form a significant proportion of their total remuneration.
Compliance with this Code provision is being addressed through annual conditional share awards under the RPC Group 2008 Performance Share Plan and annual bonuses.
Further details are set out in the Remuneration Report.
D. 1.5 Notice in the event of a change of control for P R M Vervaat exceeds one year and does not revert to one year after an initial period of employment.
An explanation and information on how compliance is being addressed is given in the service contracts section of the Remuneration Report.
Leadership The Role of the Board The Board is principally concerned with the overall leadership, strategy and development of the Group in order to promote the success of the Group for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole within a framework of effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Groups strategic objectives, ensures that the necessary resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives, reviews management performance and ensures that high ethical standards of behaviour are followed.
In its decision making processes, the Board takes into account the likely consequences of any decision in the long term, the interests of the Companys employees, relationships with suppliers and customers, the impact of the Companys operations on the community and the environment and maintaining the Companys reputation for high standards of business conduct.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board includes: approval of the Groups objectives, strategic plans and annual budgets: authorisation of material acquisitions, disposals, capital investments, credit facilities, contracts and transactions: approving changes to the Groups capital structure, listing and legal and organisational structure: approval of financial reports, dividend policy and communication with shareholders and the market: monitoring the Groups management, operating and financial performance: review of risk assessments and the effectiveness of internal controls: responsibility for Board membership and appointments, directors remuneration and contracts and remuneration policy: and Group corporate governance and approval of Group policies.
Matters not specifically reserved for the Board and the day to day operations of the Group are delegated to management.
During the year under review, since the retirement of D J Wilbraham non-executive director in July 2011, the Board has consisted of six directors being a non-executive Chairman, three independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
The names and biographical details of the directors are shown on page 37.
The significant commitments outside the Group of the Chairman and non-executive directors are given in their biographies.
Changes to such commitments are reported to the Board as they arise.
The Board meets at least six times each year.
In addition a meeting is held specifically to discuss Group strategy.
Normally at least one meeting is combined with a visit to an operating unit and the opportunity to meet the local management team.
The directors review the frequency of meetings each year as part of the Board performance evaluation process.
The number of Board and Committee meetings held during the year and attendance by their members is given in the table below.
Directors who are unable to attend a meeting receive the agenda and meeting papers and provide the Chairman with their comments before the meeting.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Board Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Number of Number Number of Number Number of Number Number of Number meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended Non-executive directors J R P Pike 8 8 3 3 n a n a n a n a S Rojahn 8 7 3 2 4 3 4 3 M G Towers 8 8 3 3 4 4 4 4 1 D J Wilbraham 3311n a n a n an a P S Wood 8 7 3 3 4 4 4 3 Executive directors R J E Marsh 8 8 n a n a n a n a n a n a P R M Vervaat 8 8 n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 Number of meetings held and attended until retired from the Board.
The main areas of business dealt with by the Board during the year other than routine matters included: continued development of the Groups strategy and objectives including exploring opportunities for further organic and acquisitive growth: conclusion of the RPC 2010 programme and monitoring the integration of the Superfos businesses into the Group, the closure of Superfos Runcorn in the UK and progress on synergies: refinancing the term loan and floating rate notes with US$216m and 60m notes in the US Private Placement market, strengthening the financial position of the Group for future growth: sale of non-core wine and spirits closures business of Bramlage Verschlsse in Germany and planning to withdraw from the loss-making market segments of automotive components in Germany and vending cups in mainland Europe: approving investment in capital projects including new production lines for growth in coffee capsules and pharmaceuticals: dividend policy review and review of investor relations activities following entry to the FTSE 250: approving the Groups Anti-bribery Policy: and consideration of gender diversification of the Board.
Chairman and Chief Executive The non-executive Chairman of the Board is J R P Pike and the Chief Executive is R J E Marsh.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are clearly defined and set out in a written statement on the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effective running of the Board and its decision-making processes, for setting the highest standards of integrity and probity, for setting its agenda and the style and tone of Board discussions.
The role includes: leading the Board in determining strategy and the achievement of the Groups objectives while ensuring that the Board determines the nature and extent of the significant risks associated with the implementation of its strategy: creating the conditions for overall Board and individual director effectiveness: ensuring effective communication with shareholders and safeguarding their interests: ensuring that directors keep their skill, knowledge and familiarity with the Group up-to-date: regularly considering succession planning and the composition of the Board: and ensuring that directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the day to day running of the Groups business, except for matters specifically reserved for the Board.
The Board considered that on appointment, J R P Pike met the independence criteria set out in provision B.
1.1 of the Code and is satisfied that the Chairmans external commitments do not interfere with the performance of his duties to the Company.
The Chairman held informal meetings with the non-executive directors during the year to discuss Board related matters without the executive directors present.
RPC Group Plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance continued The Role of Non-executive Directors The Company had three non-executive directors at the date of this report whose role, in addition to the general duties and responsibilities of directors, is to: constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy: scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance: ensure the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible: determine appropriate levels of remuneration of executive directors and have a prime role in appointing, and where necessary removing, executive directors and in succession planning: uphold high standards of integrity and probity and support the Chairman and the other directors in instilling the appropriate culture, values and behaviour in the boardroom and beyond: insist on receiving high-quality information sufficiently in advance of Board meetings: and take into account the views of shareholders and other stakeholders where appropriate.
Senior Independent Director P S Wood was the Senior Independent Director throughout the year under review.
P S Wood retired from the Board on 31 March 2012 and M G Towers was appointed Senior Independent Director in his place.
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet with major shareholders on request and to enable shareholders to voice any concerns that contact through the normal investor communication channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or is inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director provides support for the Chairman on Board matters.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive directors have met informally at least once during the year without the Chairman present in order to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Board Committees There are three principal Board committees all of which operate under written terms of reference which are available from the Company Secretary or the Companys website.
The terms of reference, performance and membership of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are reviewed and, if appropriate, updated each year by the relevant committee and the Board.
Only members of a committee are entitled to attend meetings but each committee may invite other directors, managers or advisers to attend.
The Company Secretary is secretary to all three committees.
Sufficient resources are provided to enable the committees to undertake their duties and they have authority to appoint independent professional advisers or consultants when required.
The Chairman of the relevant committee reports on the proceedings and any recommendations made at the subsequent Board meeting.
Directors Indemnities and Insurance Cover The Board reviews the level of insurance cover in respect of legal action against the Groups directors and officers and senior management on an annual basis.
The Board has also provided indemnities to the directors which are described on page 47 of the Directors Report.
Effectiveness Board Composition and Independence Throughout the year and up to the date of this report, independent non-executive directors comprised at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman.
The independent non-executive directors throughout the year were S Rojahn, M G Towers and P S Wood.
On 31 March 2012, P S Wood retired from the Board and on 30 May 2012 I Haaijer was appointed as an independent non-executive director.
The independent non-executive directors bring valuable knowledge, a broad range of experience and strong, independent character and judgement to the Boards decision-making process.
The Board considered that all these directors, including M G Towers, who since December 2009 holds a non-executive directorship in AIM listed Lupus Capital plc in common with J R P Pike, met the criteria for independence set out in provision B.
1.1 of the Code and there were no other relationships or circumstances which were likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
The Nomination Committee reviews the size, composition and balance of the Board each year and recommends any changes for the directors to consider.
On 27 July 2011 non-executive director, D J Wilbraham, who was not considered to be independent, retired from the Board and was not replaced.
The Board has endorsed the policy on gender diversity recommended by the Nomination Committee.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Nomination Committee The members of the Nomination Committee and its Chairman are as follows: From To J R P Pike Chairman 23 July 2008 To date S Rojahn 25 May 2006 To date M G Towers 1 April 2009 To date D J Wilbraham 24 March 2004 27 July 2011 P S Wood 25 May 2006 31 March 2012 I Haaijer 30 May 2012 To date The Committee meets at least twice each year and thereafter as circumstances dictate.
The number of meetings held during the year and the attendance of members of the Committee are shown in the table on page 39.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director attended meetings by invitation.
The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: review and make recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and composition of the Board: give full consideration to succession planning for directors and other senior managers: evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board: prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: identify and nominate for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board and senior management vacancies as and when they arise: annually review the time required from non-executive directors and evaluate the membership and performance of the Board and its committees: and recommend the reappointment of non-executive directors and re-election of directors.
Each year the Committee reviews the Boards structure, size, composition and balance and the membership of Board committees.
It also reviews the performance of the Board, its committees and the individual directors, the independence of non-executive directors and time commitment required from them and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Committee considers plans for the succession of directors and senior managers including the identification of internal managers who may be suitable for more senior positions in due course with the appropriate development of skills and experience.
The Committee is responsible for recommendations for appointments, re-appointments and re-election of directors.
Recommendations for re-appointment and re-election are made following review of the directors performance and consideration of the need to progressively refresh the Board.
During the year the Nomination Committee considered the recommendations made by Lord Davies in his Report on Women on Boards and the amendments made to the UK Corporate Governance Code by the Financial Reporting Council on diversity on boards including gender.
The search for Board candidates will continue to be conducted and appointments made on the basis of merit and the most appropriate experience against objective criteria in the best interests of shareholders.
In selecting candidates due regard will be given to the benefits of diversity on the Board including gender.
The Committee identified the need to appoint a new non-executive director to refresh the composition of the Board and to provide for the succession of nonexecutive directors.
In the light of the recommendations made by Lord Davies an external recruitment consultant was engaged to search for suitable candidates with financial or operational experience with the aim of including women in the shortlist of suitable candidates.
I Haaijer was selected and recommended to the Board after interviews of a shortlist of candidates matching the description of the role and appropriate due diligence.
The Committee also recommended and the Board subsequently approved I Haaijers appointment to the Boards committees.
A summary of her career is given in her biography on page 37.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that in view of the new provisions under the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the directors should submit themselves for re-election by shareholders annually.
As reported in 2011, during the year the Committee with the Senior Independent Director, P S Wood, in the chair recommended and the Board approved the reappointment of the Chairman, J R P Pike, for a second three-year term commencing on 23 July 2011 following a review of his performance led by the Senior Independent Director.
Following rigorous reviews of their performance, the Committee has recommended and the Board has approved the reappointment of S Rojahn for a third three-year term of office commencing on 25 January 2012 and M G Towers for a second three-year term of office commencing on 1 April 2012 both subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
RPC Group Plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance continued Appointment, Election and Re-election of Directors The Nomination Committee is responsible for recommending new appointments to the Board.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association all directors appointed to the Board, other than at the Annual General Meeting AGM, are required to retire at the following AGM when they may offer themselves for election: thereafter they must submit themselves for re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
However, the Board has adopted a policy of annual re-election of all directors in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
Consequently, all the directors in office at the date of this Report will submit themselves for election or re-election on an individual basis at the forthcoming AGM and annually thereafter.
Non-executive directors are appointed for terms of three years or less, subject to annual re-election by shareholders, but the Board may terminate their appointment without notice or compensation at any time.
The Board is responsible for the appointment or, subject to effective performance and commitment, reappointment of non-executive directors and setting their remuneration, which consists solely of directors fees.
A rigorous review of performance, taking into account the need for progressively refreshing the Board, is conducted when a non-executive director is proposed for reappointment on completion of two terms of three years.
Non-executive directors may not normally serve longer than nine years.
Although I Haaijer has only recently been appointed to the Board, the directors are confident that her knowledge and experience will be valuable to the operation of the Board and since she was appointed after the last AGM the Board is recommending her for election at the forthcoming AGM.
Following the formal evaluation of each of the other directors in office at the date of this Report, the Board recommends their re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
All the non-executive directors continue to be effective and demonstrate independence of character and judgement and commitment to the role.
Biographical details of all of the directors are given on page 37.
Further information on the contribution made by each director to the Board may be found in the explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM on page 111.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for approving executive directors service contracts.
Details of these contracts are given in the Remuneration Report.
Copies of executive directors service contracts and terms and conditions of appointment for non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
Information and Professional Development The Board is provided with relevant information on the activities of the Group in a timely manner and in a form and of a quality to enable it to discharge its duties.
There is a procedure established for directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
In addition, all Board members have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, that applicable rules and regulations are complied with and for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretarys role also includes ensuring good information flows within the Board and committees and between executive and non-executive directors and facilitating induction as required.
Newly appointed directors receive a formal induction tailored to the needs of the Group following good practice guidance on induction.
On appointment directors receive information about the Group including the role of the Board and matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the Boards committees, the Groups corporate governance policies and procedures, the latest financial information about the Group, and training in the duties and responsibilities of directors of listed companies.
For non-executive directors, this is supplemented by meetings with executive directors and senior executives and visits to key locations with the opportunity to meet local management to assist in the process of learning about the business.
Throughout their period of office directors are continually updated on the Groups business, the competitive and regulatory environments in which it operates, corporate responsibility and sustainability matters and other changes affecting the Group, its markets, manufacturing processes and the industry.
All directors have access to training in the furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors keep their skills and knowledge and their familiarity with the Group up to date in order to fulfil their roles on the Board and on Board committees.
The Company Secretary briefs the Board on corporate governance matters and relevant changes to corporate laws and regulations and facilitates professional development by regularly circulating details of and arranging attendance at seminars.
Executive directors also attend seminars on topics of particular relevance to their roles.
Performance Evaluation The Board has conducted a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors during the year following the process described below.
No significant performance issues were identified although it was agreed that the Board size and composition continued to work well.
Objectives for further improvements for the Board and its committees for 2012 were also agreed including: continuing to develop the Groups strategy in order to achieve the 20% ROCE objective and create shareholder value: completion of the integration of Superfos: continuing to improve the risk management process: succession planning: and review of matters reserved for the Board.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Board has a formal process, led by the Chairman, for the annual evaluation.
The process adopted and the criteria evaluated are reviewed annually.
The approach for the evaluation conducted during the year under review was an internal process using questionnaires specifically tailored for the Group and direct personal assessment.
Particular attention is given to the performance evaluation of non-executive directors who have been on the Board for more than six years.
The questionnaires follow best practice guidance and cover the Board and the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Directors grade both the importance of the evaluation criteria and performance, and make comments and recommendations for improvements.
The Company Secretary produced a report for the Chairman, individual committees and the Board to consider.
The Chairman evaluated each director using individual director questionnaires following the same format described above in consultation with the Chief Executive, the Senior Independent Director and other directors where appropriate.
The results and any improvements or personal objectives were discussed with the relevant directors on a one-to-one basis.
The non-executive directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, performed an evaluation of the Chairman using the same method taking into account the views of all directors.
The Board has agreed that the annual evaluation to be conducted during the year ended 31 March 2013 will be externally facilitated.
Accountability Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee and its Chairman are as follows: From To M G Towers Chairman 1 April 2009 To date S Rojahn 1 April 2009 To date P S Wood 25 May 2006 31 March 2012 I Haaijer 30 May 2012 To date The Board is satisfied that M G Towers, a chartered accountant, has recent and relevant financial experience.
In addition, P S Wood, also a chartered accountant, has extensive experience in senior finance roles.
The Committee meets at least three times each year and thereafter as circumstances dictate.
The external auditors attend meetings of the Committee, other than when their appointment or performance is being reviewed.
The Finance Director, other members of the Board, the Group Controller and the Group Internal Audit Manager attend Audit Committee meetings as appropriate.
The Committee meets with the auditors without any other directors or management present at least twice each year.
It reviews and, where appropriate, updates its terms of reference annually.
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: monitor the financial reporting process including the integrity and clarity of the financial statements of the Company and review any significant financial reporting issues and judgements which they contain: review the consistency of and changes to accounting policies, the methods used to account for significant and unusual transactions and whether the Company has followed appropriate accounting standards and made appropriate estimates and judgements: approve the external auditors terms of engagement, audit plan and scope of the audit and review with them the results of their audit and any control issues raised: review the effectiveness of the external auditors and their independence and objectivity: consider and make recommendations to the Board on the external auditors remuneration and their appointment, reappointment or removal: review the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems: review the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns about possible wrong doing in financial and other matters: and monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, approve the appointment and removal of internal auditors, review and approve their remit, review and assess internal audit plans, review internal audit reports and monitor managements responses to recommendations.
The Audit Committee fulfilled its responsibilities during the year outlined above.
The Committees monitoring and review role during the year has been particularly focused on the financial aspects of the acquisition of Superfos Industries a s and its integration.
It has also reviewed the Groups whistleblowing arrangements.
External Auditors KPMG Audit Plc has been the Companys external auditor since 1999 with the lead audit partner changing every five years.
There was a new lead audit partner for the year ended 31 March 2012.
However, recognising the need to regularly review the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit Committee undertook an external audit tender during the year.
Four audit firms including KPMG Audit Plc were invited to participate in the process.
The tender documents and presentations were carefully scrutinised and the candidates assessed according to a range of selection criteria.
At the conclusion of the process, the Committee recommended and the Board approved that KPMG Audit Plc be proposed for reappointment as the Companys external auditors.
The Committee will monitor best practice developments in the Code and related guidance and any changes at EU level.
RPC Group Plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance continued The Audit Committee also conducted a detailed assessment of the external auditors including matters that might have a bearing on their independence such as the level of fees for non-audit services provided during the year.
The Committee is satisfied that the level of fees for non-audit services has not impaired auditor objectivity and independence based on the principles adopted in the Group policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services.
This policy has been reviewed and updated during the year taking into account the enlarged Group.
Under the policy, the auditors may not be engaged to audit their own work, make management decisions for the Group, have a mutual financial interest with the Group or be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
Prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for non-audit services where the fees are likely to exceed specified limits both for individual assignments and in the aggregate.
Details of the amounts payable to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in note 3 to the financial statements.
Internal Audit The Group Internal Audit Manager is invited to attend Audit Committee meetings where external audit and internal control matters are considered and to report on the results of internal audits and progress on the implementation of recommendations directly to the Committee.
The internal audit process has become well-established and the risk management processes were further developed during the year through the production of Group and cluster risk registers.
During the year the Committee approved the annual internal audit plans including extending the programme to include Bribery Act 2010 compliance.
It also reviewed the results of audits and the internal audit resources in respect of the enlarged Group.
Risk Management and Internal Control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the particular needs of the Group and to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts there has been in place an established, ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group which has been regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board and is in accordance with the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The key procedures in the Groups process for reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls are summarised below: There is a clearly defined Group management responsibility and reporting structure.
The Groups objectives are reviewed as part of the strategic planning process and communicated throughout the Group.
Objectives are set for individual operating units as part of the strategy review process.
A three-year strategy review is prepared for the Boards consideration each year.
This is appraised in the light of the strategic and other relevant risks and issues faced by the Group, the resources available and its objectives.
Risk assessment and evaluation take place as an integral part of the Groups annual strategic planning cycle.
The Group has a detailed risk management process, which identifies the key risks faced by the individual reporting entities and the Group as a whole and the actions and controls required to manage these risks.
The process is reviewed each year to ensure it remains relevant to the business over time.
The Board and Audit Committee review this information as part of the internal control review.
The directors are required to approve yearly financial budgets, including capital expenditure, for each of the Groups operating units.
Performance against these targets is monitored monthly and reported on at Board meetings.
Reasons for divergences are discussed at Board meetings.
Managers are responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks in their area of business together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
Through the use of risk registers, these risks are assessed on a continual basis.
An annual review is performed on the effectiveness of the system of internal control including a detailed risk assessment.
The internal audit function undertakes work to review the system of internal control at each operation visited and reports findings to management.
Matters relating to internal control brought to the attention of the management by internal and external auditors are reviewed and any corrective actions to the internal control procedures are made in a timely manner.
The Group operates an effective Group reporting and consolidation system.
Written monthly reports, management accounts and key performance indicators are submitted by operating units and reviewed every month by senior management.
Significant risks and internal control issues are considered, actions agreed and progress monitored regularly with reporting entities and, where appropriate, at Executive and Board meetings.
Operating units produce plans to improve controls relating to key risks and any significant weaknesses identified by Group executives in addition to other initiatives and ongoing actions in progress at the local or cluster level.
An Internal Controls Committee, comprising senior finance managers in the Group, ensures that operating units respond to and implement internal control recommendations arising from internal and external audits.
An interim report is reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board to monitor the operating units progress against their plans to improve controls to ensure that necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified.
The report also includes updates on significant risks and other internal control issues.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 A new Group reporting and consolidation system was implemented during the year which has further strengthened the financial reporting and financial control process in the Group.
The internal audit function has performed reviews at a number of the Groups sites during the year.
In addition the Group has identified a number of risks faced by the business requiring particular attention to control and monitoring and these are held in a Group risk register.
Details of the specific risks that are seen as particularly important at the current time are given in the Principal Risks on pages 26 and 27.
The directors confirm that they have carried out their annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control as it has operated throughout the year ended 31 March 2012 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The directors also confirm that necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from that review.
Directors Conflicts of Interest Under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests a situational conflict.
This is in addition to a duty to disclose any interest in an existing or proposed transaction or arrangement with the Company a transactional conflict.
In accordance with the Act, the Companys Articles of Association contain a provision giving directors who have no interest in the matter, authority to approve such situational conflicts where appropriate.
A formal system and guidance for reporting any situational conflicts of interest to the Chairman and Company Secretary has been established in addition to the existing duty to notify the Board of any transactional conflicts.
Situational conflicts are considered by those directors who have no interest in the matter and they may impose conditions on any authorisation given.
Situational conflicts considered by the Board and any authorisation given are recorded in the Board minutes and a register of directors conflicts of interest.
In addition to the notification and authorisation system, the register of directors conflicts of interest is reviewed annually.
Remuneration Remuneration Committee and Policy The members of the Remuneration Committee and its Chairman, its role and responsibilities, its activities during the year under review and details of remuneration policy and directors remuneration packages are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 50.
The number of meetings of the Committee and attendance are given on page 39.
Relations with Shareholders Dialogue with Shareholders The Company is committed to maintaining an effective dialogue with institutional and private investors.
Directors, normally the Chairman or Chief Executive and Finance Director, hold regular meetings with institutional investors at which the Companys past performance and strategy may be discussed.
The Board is provided with brokers reports, surveys on shareholders views and regular feedback from shareholder meetings.
During the year the Chairman has discussed the Companys governance and strategy with major shareholders and reported any issues or concerns raised at these meetings to the Board.
Non-executive directors have the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and expect to attend meetings at their request.
Contact with institutional investors, financial analysts, brokers and the press is controlled and procedures are in place to ensure the proper disclosure of inside information in compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and Code of Market Conduct.
Annual General Meeting Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
An individual resolution on each separate issue is proposed at the AGM including the Annual Report and Accounts.
Shareholders have the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the Companys activities and performance.
It is the Boards policy that all directors attend the AGM if at all possible and therefore in normal circumstances the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available to answer questions.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution and votes withheld are counted before the AGM and are made available at the meeting after shareholders have voted on a show of hands.
A full breakdown of the voting results detailing the total number of votes for, against and votes withheld in respect of each resolution proposed is published after each AGM and general meeting.
