Council, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The principal risks to which the Group is exposed and the measures to mitigate such risks are described on pages 8 and 9.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of risk management and internal control, which are designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board reviews from time to time the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management from information provided by management and the Groups external auditors.
Such a review was undertaken by the Committee and the Board during 2012 the outcome of which was satisfactory.
The key procedures that the Directors have established to provide effective internal financial controls are as follows: Financial reporting: The results for the Group are reported to and reviewed by the Board on a monthly basis.
A detailed formal budgeting process for all Group businesses culminates in an annual Group budget which is approved by the Board.
Financial and accounting principles and internal financial controls assurance: The Groups accounting policies, principles and minimum standards required for effective financial control are communicated to all accounting teams.
The Group Finance function undertakes periodic detailed reviews to ensure compliance and to follow up any weaknesses previously identified.
Capital investment: The Group has clearly defined guidelines for capital expenditure.
These include detailed appraisal and review procedures, levels of authority and due diligence procedures in respect of potential business acquisitions.
Treasury: the Group operates a central treasury function that undertakes required borrowing and foreign exchange transactions as well as the daily monitoring of bank balances and cash receipts.
Appropriate payment authorisation processes are in place in all parts of the Group.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises three Independent Non-Executive Directors: John Bennett, Robert Miller-Bakewell and Tracey Graham.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website and on request from the Company Secretary.
Although the Board considers that all current members of the Committee have experience that is relevant to the role, John Bennett, who is a Chartered Accountant, is the member of the Committee specifically identified as having recent and relevant financial experience.
The major difference of opinion that arose between the Company and its former auditors Ernst & Young LLP EY during 2011 in relation to IFRS3 2008 Business Combinations and specifically the appropriate treatment contingent deferred consideration was reported in some detail last year.
Although the Committee fundamentally disagreed with EYs interpretation of this standard the Board accepted the Committees recommendation that EYs interpretation be adopted in respect of the 2011 report and accounts.
Against the background of this fundamental disagreement the Board accepted the Committees recommendation that the external audit appointment be reviewed.
During 2012 the Committee, accordingly, undertook a competitive tender process of the external audit appointment following which Deloitte LLP were appointed as the Groups auditors.
EY had held the audit appointment for only one year following a similar review undertaken in 2011 and a further change of external auditors at that time was therefore unusual.
The Committee and the Board were however, firmly of the view that the nature of the disagreement with EY was so fundamental that a further review was appropriate and in the best interest of shareholders.
At its annual planning meeting the Committee reviews and approves plans with the Auditors including the locations to be audited and the key areas of audit focus.
The committee also reviews the integrity of the Groups financial statements prior to their submission to the Board.
This review includes ensuring that statutory and associated legal and regulatory requirements are met as well as considering significant reporting judgements, the adoption of appropriate accounting policies and practices and compliance with accounting standards.
As part of this process, the Committee receives reports on the scope and outcome of the annual audit and managements response to this.
The Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls and risk management processes: this included assisting the Board in conducting the review of internal controls described above.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the need for an internal audit function and remains of the view that at present the financial controls operating throughout the Group and the reviews undertaken by the Group Finance function are adequate without a dedicated internal audit function.
In addition, during the year members of the Audit Committee visited Australia and North America to discuss internal control with senior management and were able to report positively in respect of their findings.
The Audit Committee keeps the scope, cost and effectiveness of the external audit under review as well as making recommendations as to the annual re-appointment of Auditors.
The independence and effectiveness of the external auditor will continue to be subject to annual review and audit partners rotated at least every five years.
As part of its responsibility to ensure independence and objectivity the Committee has adopted a policy to determine the circumstances in which Auditors may be permitted to undertake non-audit work for the Group.
Under the terms of this policy the provision of certain services are prohibited and include those listed below: n bookkeeping services n design and implementation of financial systems n preparation of financial statements n valuation services Report and Accounts 2012 24
