Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 59 Corporate governance The board also considered carefully whether it would be appropriate Introduction to appoint an interim chairman for 12 months before Mr Mackay becomes non-executive chairman but concluded this would not be in This report describes the directors approach to corporate governance the best interests of the company or its shareholders as it would not and how the board applies the UK Corporate Governance Code.
provide the appropriate continuity of strategic direction and oversight that the group requires.
The directors are committed to maintaining the highest standards ofcorporate governance, which they believe are fundamental to Any risk of an over-concentration of decision making powers in one discharging their stewardship responsibilities.
In his statement on person will be mitigated by the formal appointment of Mr Manser as pages 7 to 11 of the annual report, the Chairman reports personally Deputy Chairman, the fact that Mr Mackays appointment as Executive on how we apply the principles of the Code relating to the role and Chairman is for a pre-determined and limited period of one year, and effectiveness of the board.
the proposed appointment of Dr Clark as a third executive director.
It is also the boards intention now to begin the process of recruiting a new Application of the UK Corporate Governance Code independent non-executive director, with the expectation that in due The board applied all of the principles and provisions of the Code course he or she could become the senior independent director in throughout the year ended 31 March 2012, except that the audit succession to Mr Manser.
committee did not consist solely of independent directors.
Under our relationship agreement, as approved by shareholders in 2002 and in 2005, Altria Group, Inc. Altria has the right to nominate a director to the audit committee, and has nominated Mr Devitre, whom the board Leadership and effectiveness does not consider to be an independent director for the purposes of the Code.
Board of directors: composition, independence and renewal Composition The board nevertheless considers that the composition of the The board currently consists of the Chairman Mr Kahn : nine auditcommittee remains appropriate, given Altrias interest as the independent non-executive directors including Mr Manser, the companys largest shareholder, and is satisfied that, having regard SeniorIndependent Director : five non-executive directors who are not tothe experience and background in financial matters of Mr Devitre, considered to be independent: and two executive directors Mr Mackay, as a former chief financial officer of Altria, the independence and the Chief Executive, and Mr Wilson, the Chief Financial Officer.
Short effectiveness of the audit committee in discharging its functions biographies of each of the directors are on pages 52 and 53. interms of the Code continue to be considerably enhanced and notinthe least compromised.
The size and certain aspects of the composition of the board and of the audit, nomination and corporate accountability and risk assurance In April 2012 we announced a number of changes to the board committees continue to be determined in part by the terms of our whichwill take place at the 2012 annual general meeting, including relationship agreements with Altria and with BevCo, both of which theretirement of Mr Kahn as Chairman: the appointment of Mr Mackay have been approved by the shareholders of SABMiller.
as Executive Chairman for an interim period of one year: and the appointment of Dr Clark as an executive director and as Chief The agreement with Altria limits the size of the board to a maximum of Operating Officer, with the intention that he will succeed Mr Mackay 15 directors, of whom no more than two are to be executive directors, as Chief Executive at the end of that interim period, when Mr Mackay up to three are to be non-executive directors nominated by Altria, will become non-executive Chairman.
upto two are to be non-executive directors nominated by BevCo, andup to eight are to be non-executive directors nominated by the The Code recommends that a chief executive should not go on to be board.
The agreement with BevCo allows BevCo to nominate up chairman of the same company and that when, exceptionally, a board totwo non-executive directors for appointment to the board.
decides that a chief executive should become chairman, the board should consult major shareholders in advance and should set out its As was the case last year, the number of directors on the board reasons to shareholders.
The Code also recommends that the roles currently exceeds the number permitted under our agreement with ofchairman and chief executive should not be exercised by the Altria.
If Dr Clark is elected by shareholders at the forthcoming annual sameindividual and that the division of responsibilities between the general meeting on 26 July 2012, the board will have three executive chairman and chief executive should be clearly established, set out directors, which also exceeds the number contemplated by our inwriting and agreed by the board.
Upon announcement of the agreement.
Altria has given its consent to these changes in order proposed changes, the board wrote to all shareholders explaining tofacilitate the progressive renewal of the board and the broadening theprocess that had been followed and setting out the reasons for of the diversity of background, gender and experience at board level, these appointments.
and to enable the boards agreed executive succession planning to beimplemented.
The board is grateful to Altria for its agreement to Before concluding that these appointments were in the best interests permit the maximum number of directors and executive directors of the company and would promote the success of SABMiller for the allowed under the relationship agreement to be exceeded for the benefit of shareholders as a whole, the board considered carefully the timebeing, and also for its agreement that the board should begin requirements of the position of chairman in the context of the groups theprocess of recruiting a new independent director, on the size and geographical spread.
The board recognised the need for understanding that in the absence of unforeseen circumstances, achairman who would be able to commit himself fully to the role thesize of the board will gradually be reduced over the next two andprovide stability and continuity for a number of years, and that years, to restore the number of directors to that envisaged by the thecandidate would need a wide range of skills and expertise.
agreement, while still applying the provision of the Code that at least Thenomination committee came to the unanimous conclusion that half of the directors excluding the Chairman should be independent MrMackay was the outstanding candidate for the position and the non-executive directors.
decision to nominate him received the unanimous support of the directors and the strong backing of our two major shareholders, Altria Altria and BevCo have each exercised their right under their and BevCo Ltd a holding company of the Santo Domingo Group and respectiveagreements to nominate one director for appointment to was made after discussion with representatives of major institutional the nomination committee.
Both Altria and BevCo have the right to shareholders.
The decision to appoint Dr Clark as Chief Operating nominate directors for appointment to the corporate accountability Officer to facilitate a staged handover of responsibilities recognises and risk assurance committee CARAC, although neither Altria nor the complexities of our global business and our many significant BevCo currently exercise this right, and Altria has exercised its right external relationships and partnerships.
tonominate one director for appointment to the audit committee.
60 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued Independence It is now 13 years since the company listed on the London Stock The board considers nine directors Mr Armour, Ms Knox, Mr Manser, Exchange, and SABMiller has been fortunate to retain the services Mr Manzoni, Mr Morland, Dr Moyo, Mr Pieterse, Mr Ramaphosa and ofseveral distinguished non-executive directors the Chairman, Ms Weir to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
The board MrBible, Mr Manser, Mr Morland and Mr Ramaphosa for all or most considers five non-executive directors not to be independent for the of that period.
They have provided considerable stability to the board purposes of the Code: Mr Bible, Mr Devitre and Mr Willard, as they are and the board has benefited greatly from the presence of individuals nominees of Altria, the companys largest shareholder: and Mr Santo who have over time gained valuable insight into the group, its markets Domingo and Mr Prez, as they are nominees of the Santo Domingo and the industry.
Group, the companys second largest shareholder.
The test of independence under the Code does not apply in relation to the Nevertheless, the directors are committed to the progressive refreshment Chairman, Mr Kahn.
of the board in terms of age, gender and balance of skills, with the appointment of five new independent non-executive directors over If a director has served for a period of nine years or more, the Code thepast four years, including the appointment of two new independent requires the board to consider whether that director continues to be non-executive directors during the year ended 31 March 2012, with independent.
In respect of each of the three independent directors MsKnox and Ms Weir both joining our board in May 2011.
In line with who have served the board for more than nine years and are ourcontinuing commitment to this policy, it is the boards intention now offeringthemselves for re-election Mr Manser, Mr Morland and tobegin the process of recruiting a new independent non-executive MrRamaphosa, the board has therefore considered specifically director, with the expectation that in due course he or she could become whether their length of service has compromised their independence.
the senior independent director in succession to Mr Manser.
In each case the board has determined that the director concerned remains independent in character and judgement and that there are Mr Wilson was elected as a director and appointed as Chief Financial no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could Officer in July, succeeding Mr Wyman who retired at the July 2011 appear to affect, his judgement, and that the independence of annual general meeting.
character and judgement of each of the directors concerned is not inany way affected or impaired by length of service.
The board has In April 2012, we announced that Mr Pieterse had elected to retire also conducted a rigorous review of the performance of Mr Manser, andwould not offer himself for re-election at the 2012 annual general Mr Morland and Mr Ramaphosa and considers that each of these meeting.
Although his decision was accepted with sadness the group directors continues to bring invaluable integrity, wisdom and will continue to benefit from Mr Pieterses knowledge and experience experience to the board and to contribute positively to board and on Grolschs supervisory board.
The board is therefore entirely satisfied astothe performance and continued independence of judgement Also in April, as detailed above, we announced the retirement of ofeach of these directors.
MrKahn and the consequent succession plans.
Progressive renewal of the board The Code recommends that all directors should stand for annual The board continues to believe that its overall composition remains re-election and the board has decided that all directors, save those appropriate, having regard in particular to the independence of who are retiring, should stand for re-election at the next annual character and integrity of all of its directors, and the experience general meeting.
andskills which they bring to their duties.
Directors attendance 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012 and committee memberships Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CARAC AGM Independent Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended J M Kahn N A 7 7 1 1 2 2 Y E A G Mackay N A 7 7 2 2 Y M I Wyman N A 3 3 Y J S Wilson N A 4 4 2 2 N A M H Armour Yes 7 7 4 4 3 3 Y G C Bible No 7 7 1 1 Y D S Devitre No 7 7 4 4 Y L M S Knox Yes 4 5 2 3 2 2 Y P J Manser Yes 6 7 4 4 3 3 1 1 2 2 Y J A Manzoni Yes 6 7 3 3 1 1 2 2 Y M Q Morland Yes 7 7 4 4 3 3 1 1 Y D F Moyo Yes 5 7 1 2 Y C A Prez Dvila No 6 7 Y R Pieterse Yes 7 7 2 2 Y M C Ramaphosa Yes 6 7 1 1 1 2 Y A Santo Domingo Dvila No 7 7 1 1 Y H A Weir Yes 5 5 2 3 Y H A Willard No 6 7 Y Mr Manser was unable to attend the board meeting in April 2011.
The date Messrs Manzoni and Prez and Dr Moyo were unable to attend an additional ofthat meeting was moved from that originally scheduled, and he had a board meeting held in October 2011 which was called on short notice to longstanding prior commitment on the rearranged date.
consider our alliance with Anadolu Efes.
Ms Knox was unable to attend the board and audit committee meetings Dr Moyo was unable to attend the board and CARAC meetings in February 2012 inSeptember 2011 because of an overseas commitment which had been because of an overseas commitment.
arranged before her appointment to the board.
Mr Ramaphosa was unable to attend the board meeting in May 2011 and the Ms Weir was unable to attend the audit committee meeting in September 2011 CARAC meeting in February 2012 because of other business commitments.
because of a prior commitment which had been arranged before her Mr Willard was unable to attend the board meeting in February 2012 because appointment to the board.
ofcommitments in his new role as Chief Financial Officer of Altria.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 61 The board considers there is an appropriate balance of skills, The roles of executive and non-executive directors collective experience, independence, knowledge and gender The executive directors are responsible for proposing strategy and amongthe non-executive directors to enable them to discharge formaking and implementing operational decisions.
Non-executive theirrespective duties and responsibilities effectively.
directors complement the skills and experience of the executive directors, bring independent judgement and contribute to the How the board operates formulation of strategy, policy and decision-making through their Board meetings and attendance knowledge and experience of other businesses and sectors.
During the year there were seven board meetings.
Individual directors attendance at board and committee meetings and at the annual Information and training general meeting is set out in the table opposite.
All directors attended The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the board, through the annual general meeting.
In the few instances where a director has the Chairman, on matters of corporate governance.
The board and not been able to attend a board or committee meeting, any comments itscommittees are supplied with full and timely information, including which they have had on the matters to be considered at that meeting detailed financial information, to enable directors to discharge their have been given in advance to the chairman of the meeting.
responsibilities, and the committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
All directors have access to the Operation of the board advice of the Company Secretary.
Independent professional advice The board sets the strategic objectives of the group, determines isalso available to directors in appropriate circumstances, at the investment policies, agrees on performance criteria, and delegates companys expense.
None of the directors has sought independent tomanagement the detailed planning and implementation of those external advice through the company.
objectives and policies in accordance with appropriate risk parameters.
The board monitors compliance with policies and Following the appointment of new directors to the board, directors achievement against objectives by holding management accountable arebriefed on the duties they owe to the company as directors, and for its activities through monthly and quarterly performance reporting tailored induction programmes are arranged which involve industryand budget updates.
In addition, members of the executive committee specific training and include visits to the groups businesses and the executive directors, the divisional managing directors and the meetings with senior management, as appropriate.
New directors are directors of key group functions: corporate affairs: corporate finance briefed on internal controls at head office and business unit level and and development: legal: marketing: and supply chain and human are advised of the legal and other duties they have as directors of a resources make regular presentations to the board, enabling listed company as well as on relevant company policies and directorsto explore and interrogate specific issues and developments governance-related matters.
The company is committed to the continuing development of directors Board and committee meetings are held in an atmosphere of in order that they may build on their expertise and develop an ever intellectual honesty of purpose, integrity and mutual respect, more detailed understanding of the business and the markets in requiringreporting of the highest standard by management and whichgroup companies operate.
Members of board committees direct, robust and constructive challenge and debate among board areencouraged to attend internal and external briefings and courses and committee members.
on aspects of their respective committee specialisms and regular updates on relevant legal, regulatory, corporate governance and Matters reserved for the board technical developments are presented to committee members at There is a schedule of matters which are dealt with exclusively eachmeeting and, as appropriate, to the full board.
These include approval of financial statements: the considers the training and development needs of the board and groupsbusiness strategy: the annual capital expenditure plan: discusses these with the respective directors as necessary.
majorcapital projects: major changes to the groups management andcontrol structure: material investments or disposals: risk Outside appointments management strategy: sustainability and environmental policies: Non-executive directors may serve on a number of other boards andtreasury policies.
provided that they continue to demonstrate the requisite commitment to discharge effectively their duties to SABMiller.
The Chairman and The board governs through clearly mandated board committees, the nomination committee keep under review the extent of directors accompanied by monitoring and reporting systems.
Each standing other interests to ensure that the effectiveness of the board is not board committee has specific written terms of reference issued by compromised by the extent of their external commitments.
The board theboard and adopted in committee.
The terms of reference of the is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the non-executive directors audit, remuneration and nomination committees are available on the commit sufficient time to their duties as Chairman and directors of the companys website.
All committee chairmen report orally on the company, respectively, and the non-executive directors have proceedings of their committees at the next meeting of the board, and confirmed that they have sufficient time to fulfil their respective the minutes of the meetings of all board committees are included in obligations to the company.
the papers distributed to all board members in advance of the next board meeting.
The board believes, in principle, in the benefit to the company ofexecutive directors and members of the executive committee Conflicts of interest accepting non-executive directorships of other companies in order to The directors are required to avoid situations where they have, widen their experience and knowledge for the benefit of the company.
orcanhave, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly Accordingly, subject to the agreement of the board, executive mayconflict, with the companys interests.
In accordance with the directors and members of the executive committee are permitted to Companies Act 2006, the articles of association of the company allow accept external non-executive board appointments and to retain any the board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise and fees received from such appointments.
to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
Procedures are in place for the disclosure by directors of any potential conflicts and for Mr Mackay is a non-executive director of Reckitt Benckiser the appropriate authorisation to be sought if a conflict arises.
These Groupplcand is the senior independent director and a member procedures continue to operate effectively.
There were no actual or ofitsremuneration committee.
He is also a member of the board of potential conflicts of interest which were required to be authorised Philip Morris International Inc. and serves on three of its committees: bythe board during the year ended 31 March 2012. compensation and leadership development, finance, and product innovation and regulatory affairs.
The board is satisfied that these duties do not impinge on Mr Mackays commitment and ability to discharge fully his duties to the company, and that his service on 62 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued theboards of two global consumer product companies, which The performance of the Chief Executive is reviewed by the operate in many of the developed and emerging markets in which the remuneration committee and this review is shared with and company also has businesses, continues to give Mr Mackay valuable considered by the board.
The performance of the Chief Financial additional insights and knowledge which enhance his ability to fulfil Officer is reviewed by the Chief Executive and the remuneration hisduties as Chief Executive of the company.
committee, and reported on to the board by the remuneration committee.
Each non-executive directors performance is evaluated Fees earned by Mr Mackay from these appointments are set out by the Chairman, in consultation with the Senior Independent Director, inthedirectors remuneration report.
who in turn consults with the executive directors and the Company Secretary.
The Chairmans performance is evaluated against the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director samecriteria by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate with directors and the Company Secretary, taking into account the views responsibilities divided between them, as formalised in their respective ofthe executive directors.
letters of appointment, approved by the board.
There were no significant changes to the Chairmans external commitments during the year.
In considering the contribution of individual directors for the year under review, performance was assessed against the companys As noted in the introduction to this report and in the Chairmans selected criteria of strategy, expertise in their field, ethics and Statement on pages 7 to 11, MrKahn will retire at the forthcoming governance factors, commitment, profile, knowledge of the industry, annual general meeting, MrMackay will be appointed as Executive and team contribution, culminating in an overall contribution rating, Chairman for one year and Dr Clark will be appointed as Chief while recognising the importance of the different roles played by Operating Officer for an interim period.
It is intended that at the individual directors in bringing a balanced overall view to the board.
annualgeneral meeting in 2013, Mr Mackay will become NonInreviewing the performance of the board and its committees, the Executive Chairman, and Dr Clark will become the Chief Executive Chairman and the Senior Independent Director were aligned in their inhis place.
Job specifications for the Executive Chairman andthe conclusion that, measured against the principal duties expected of it, Chief Operating Officer, setting out clearly their respective authorities the board and its standing and ad hoc sub-committees continued to and responsibilities, have been agreed by the board, and the directors operate effectively and to meet in full their obligations to support are confident that Mr Mackay and Dr Clark will continue to work management, to monitor performance, and to maintain the boards closely and effectively together, both during the transitional year and strategic oversight.
As noted, any risk of an over-concentration ofdecision making powers in one person will be mitigated by the formal In a meeting of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, appointment of Mr Manser, theSenior Independent Director, thecommittee chairmen and the Company Secretary, the results asDeputyChairman, by the fact that the interim appointment of ofthe performance and effectiveness evaluations conducted in MrMackay as Executive Chairman is for a pre-determined and limited respect ofthe board, each of the directors, the Chairman, the period of one year, and by the proposed appointment of Dr Clark as SeniorIndependent Director and each of the boards four standing athird executive director.
It is also the boards intention now to begin committees were reviewed.
Regarding the board committees, each the process of recruiting a new independent non-executive director, ofthe committee chairmen present expressed their views regarding with the expectation that in due course he or she could become the the operation of his committee against its terms of reference and the Senior Independent Director in succession to Mr Manser.
performance and effectiveness of that committee.
These views were discussed in an open and constructive manner with recommendations Mr Manser chairs or serves on all four main committees of the arising from the discussions being brought forward to the board and board, and is therefore well placed to influence the governance of the the respective committees.
The conclusion of this meeting was that company and to meet his responsibilities as Deputy Chairman and the board was balanced and operated effectively and that the board Senior Independent Director.
He serves as an additional contact committees discharged effectively their duties under their respective pointfor shareholders, and is also available to fellow non-executive terms of reference.
directors, either individually or collectively, to discuss any matters ofconcern in a forum that does not include executive directors or The results of the performance and effectiveness assessment process other members of the management team.
as outlined above were reviewed in full and approved by the board.
Matters identified as requiring further consideration have been The Chairman is available to consult with shareholders throughout addressed, and in particular additional time continues to be made theyear and, in the month prior to the annual general meeting, he available in the boards agenda for focus on strategic matters by alsoinvites major shareholders to meet him to deal with any issues.
holding an away day dedicated to strategy.
The board is kept informed of the views of shareholders through regular updates from the Chairman, the Company Secretary and All directors, except for those who are retiring, will be standing for theexecutive directors, as well as through the inclusion in the re-election at this years annual general meeting.
The Chairman boardpapers of reports on commentaries of, and exchanges with, confirms that each of the existing directors offering themselves shareholders, investor bodies and analysts.
In the year under review, forelection or re-election continues to perform effectively and to the Chairman hosted a meeting of the non-executive directors demonstrate commitment to their role.
In particular, the Chairman withoutthe executive directors being present.
The Senior confirms that, in relation to each of the non-executive directors who IndependentDirector also held a meeting of non-executive directors will have served for over nine years, the board is satisfied with his without thepresence of the Chairman at which, among other things, performance and has determined that the length of their service does the performance of the Chairman was discussed.
The test of independence does not apply to Mr Bible.
Board, committee and director performance evaluation A formal and rigorous evaluation of the performance and effectiveness The board unanimously recommends to shareholders the election of the board and its principal committees is carried out each year, led ofDr Clark as a director, in consequence of his appointment as Chief by the Chairman, with input from the Senior Independent Director, and Operating Officer.
The board believes that Dr Clark is ideally qualified in consultation with other directors and the Company Secretary.
Given to succeed Mr Mackay.
He has 22 years experience with the group the imminent directorate changes, it was not considered appropriate and has been a member of the executive committee since 2003 when to carry out an externally facilitated performance evaluation for the he was appointed as managing director of SABMiller Europe.
Biographical details of all directors and of Dr Clark are included onpages 52 and 53.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 63 Retirement of directors The work of the committee during the year included consideration The companys articles of association require that new directors ofthe following matters: areappointment, and directors are subject to retirement and re-election by shareholders every three years.
The reappointment the annual financial statements and the preliminary results ofnon-executive directors is not automatic.
However, the board announcement for the year ended 31 March 2011 before their hasdetermined that all directors will stand for re-election annually.
submission to the board for approval, including consideration Independent non-executive directors who have served for nine years ofthegroup on a going concern basis, with particular reference will only be asked to stand for re-election if the board remains satisfied tobalance sheet and treasury considerations: both with the directors performance and that nine years continuous the interim financial statements and interim results announcement service does not compromise the directors continuing independence.
for the six months ended 30 September 2011: areas of significance in the preparation of the financial statements, The Company Secretary including exceptional items, impairment reviews, tax provisions and The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the board and its the treatment of costs relating to the groups business capability committees and he attended all meetings during the year under review.
programme: governance and controls in relation to the business capability The boards committees and the executive committee programme: The executive committee reports from the external auditors on the annual and interim The board delegates responsibility for determining and implementing financial statements, the approval of the audit plan and fee proposal the groups strategy and for managing the group to the Chief for the 2012 year-end audit: Executive, Mr Mackay, who is supported by the executive committee developments in accounting standards and the groups responses: excom, which he chairs.
Excom members are appointed by Mr the progress of the years internal audit programme and matters Mackay, after consultation with the board.
The other members of arising: excom are the Chief Financial Officer: the divisional managing the effectiveness of the internal audit function and of the Chief directors and the directors ofkeygroup functions corporate affairs: Internal Auditor: corporate finance and development: legal: marketing: and supply chain the results of the groups bi-annual letters of representation and and human resources.
Excoms purpose is to support the Chief managements investigation and follow-up of any instances of Executive in carrying out theduties delegated to him by the board non-compliance: and, in that context, excom co-ordinates brand and operational the internal control environment and risk management systems execution, delivers strategic plans, budgets and financial reports for andthe groups statement on internal control systems, prior to the boards consideration and, through the Chief Executive, reports endorsement by the board: onthese matters to the board.
revisions to treasury policies and compliance with risk limits: material legal developments: Excom also ensures that effective internal controls are in place and whistleblowing systems in place within the group and material functioning, and that there is an effective risk management process whistleblowing reports: inoperation throughout the group.
the effectiveness of the external auditors and the recommendation to the board of the reappointment of  LLP The audit committee as the external auditors: During the year under review, the audit committee was chaired by the policy on auditor independence and non-audit services, MrManser, chairman since 2002.
Mr Manser qualified as a chartered andconsideration of the nature, scope and appropriateness accountant in 1964 and was made a Fellow of the Institute of ofnon-audit services supplied by the external auditors: and Chartered Accountants in 1976.
Further biographical information its terms of reference and effectiveness.
concerning Mr Manser is set out on page 52.
The audit committee reports its activities and makes Mr Morland, Mr Devitre and Mr Armour served on the committee recommendations to the board.
During the year, the audit committee throughout the year.
Mr Morland has been a member of the discharged its responsibilities as they are defined in the committees committee since 13 April 1999, Mr Devitre since 16 May 2007 and terms of reference, and has been engaged in ensuring that MrArmour since 1 May 2010.
Ms Knox and Ms Weir were appointed appropriate standards of governance, reporting and compliance to the committee on 19 May 2011.
The chairman has recent and arebeing met.
The committee has advised the board on issues relevant financial experience, as do Mr Devitre, having until 31March relating to the application of accounting standards as they relate 2008 held the position of Chief Financial Officer of Altria, and the other topublished financial information.
Mr Armour is the Chief Financial Officer ofReed Elsevier Group plc, a position he has held since 1996, and of The Chief Internal Auditor has direct access to the committee, its parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
From primarily through its chairman.
The committee has access to July 2012 he will be appointed to the board of the Financial Reporting subsidiary company internal audit leadership.
The reports of the Council.
Ms Knox has had a successful career ininvestment banking divisional finance, control and assurance committees are also and asset management, and has served in a wide range of nonavailable to the audit committee.
During the year, the chairman executive director positions including having been a member and a ofthecommittee met at least once with the external auditors and chairman of a number of audit committees.
MsWeir is Group Finance withthe Chief Internal Auditor without management being present.
Director of The John Lewis Partnership andwas until May 2011 an executive director of Lloyds Banking Groupplc, including four years The nomination committee asgroup finance director.
During the year, the nomination committee was chaired by Mr Kahn.
Mr Bible, Mr Manser, Mr Manzoni, Mr Morland, Mr Ramaphosa and The committee met four times during the year.
The external auditors, Mr Santo Domingo were members of this committee throughout the the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Internal year.
The committee considers the composition of the board and Auditor attended each meeting by invitation.
Other members of the itscommittees, the retirement, appointment and replacement of management team attended as required.
directors, and makes appropriate recommendations to the board.
64 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued The nomination committee has continued to evaluate the balance of Specifically, during the year the work of the remuneration committee skills, knowledge and experience of the board and remains committed included: to the progressive renewal of the board through orderly succession.
Where vacancies arise they prepare a description of the role and reviewing trends in global executive remuneration and governance: capabilities required for the appointment.
Appropriate succession reviewing the key elements and design of the groups long-term plans for the non-executive directors, for the executive directors incentive schemes including peer comparator group composition : andfor senior management were also kept under close review.
reviewing global benchmarking methodologies and outcomes: Thecommittee is conscious of the need for due regard to be given reviewing and approving performance hurdles for short and todiversity when considering appointments to the board.
Five of the long-term incentive awards: lastseven independent non-executive directors to be appointed by reviewing and approving long-term incentive awards for executive the board were women, and currently one-third of the companys committee members and other senior employees: independent non-executive directors are women, and the committee reviewing executive director shareholding guidelines: therefore believes that the company is well positioned in terms of the reviewing and approving total remuneration for the executive future balance of the board.
directors and executive committee members: determining the appropriate remuneration for the newly appointed Where non-executive vacancies arise, the committee may use the executive director Mr Wilson as Chief Financial Officer and excom services of external consultants in order to identify suitable candidates member Mr fide Lorenzo, as Director of Corporate Finance and for the board to consider.
In relation to the most recent non-executive Development : and board appointments, an external search firm was retained and reviewing and approving the directors remuneration report and produced a strong list of candidates, who were then shortlisted for recommending it to the board.
consideration by the nomination committee on the basis of their relevant corporate or professional skills and experience, from which More details of the companys remuneration policy and the work Ms Knox and Ms Weir were appointed in May 2011. ofthe remuneration committee can be found in the directors remuneration report on pages 68 to 83.
An external search firm was not used in relation to the appointment ofMr Mackay as Executive Chairman or Dr Clark as Chief Operating The corporate accountability and risk assurance Officer.
The process followed in connection with these appointments committee CARAC is described above.
Mr Manser chaired the nomination committee Dr Moyo chaired the committee throughout the year.
Mr Kahn, during its deliberations on the appointment of Mr Mackay as the MrMackay, Mr Manser, Mr Manzoni, Mr Pieterse and Mr Ramaphosa successor to Mr Kahn as chairman.
served as members for the entire period.
Mr Willard, who has served the committee since September 2009, stepped down from the The remuneration committee committee on 7 September 2011 as a result of new commitments During the year, the remuneration committee consisted entirely inhis role as Chief Financial Officer of Altria.
Mr Wyman ceased to be ofindependent directors: Mr Morland Chairman, Mr Armour, a member of the committee on his retirement from the board in July MrManzoni and Mr Manser.
Ms Knox was appointed to the 2011 and was replaced by Mr Wilson.
Mr Pieterse will cease to be a remuneration committee with effect from 19 May 2011. member of the committee on his retirement in July 2012 and Mr Bible will join the committee.
Additionally, the Director of Corporate Affairs, The committee is responsible for the assessment and approval of Ms Clark, met regularly with the chairman of CARAC to discuss abroad remuneration strategy for the group and for the operation implementation and planning issues, and attended all meetings ofthe companys share-based incentive plans.
determination of short-term and long-term incentives for executives across the group, and the committee is empowered by the board to The objective of the committee is to assist the board in the discharge set short-term and long-term remuneration for the executive directors of its responsibilities in relation to corporate accountability, including and members of the executive committee.
sustainable development, corporate social responsibility, corporate social investment and ethical commercial behaviour.
More details The remuneration committee has implemented its strategy of ensuring ofthe committees activities can be found in the sustainable that employees and executives are rewarded for their contribution to development review section of this report and in the companys the groups operating and financial performance at levels which take separate Sustainable Development Report, which is available on account of industry, market and country benchmarks.
To ensure that thecompanys website and, upon request, in hard copy.
the executives goals are aligned to those of the company, share incentives are considered to be critical elements of executive incentive During the year the committee continued to focus on companypay.
During the year the committee engaged the services of specific and industry issues which are critical to protecting the consultants, Kepler Associates.
These consultants have no other companys licence to operate.
At levels below the companys executive committee, the companys management engages other The disclosure committee consultants, on a project basis.
The disclosure committee consists of the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Senior Independent Directorand the General Counsel and Company Secretary or theDeputy Company Secretary.
The function of the disclosure committee, in accordance with the groups inside information policy, isto meet as and when required in order to assure compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules, as guided by the General Counsel, and to ensure that the routes of communication between excom members, the disclosure committee, the General Counsels office, the company secretarial office and investor relations are clear, and provide for rapid escalation to the disclosure committee and key advisers, and the board, of any decision regarding potential inside information, so that the company isable to comply fully with its continuing obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 65 assessment of the auditors effectiveness.
There are no contractual Accountability obligations restricting the companys choice of external auditor.
The audit committee Risk management A description of the composition, scope of responsibilities and work The groups risk management system is subject to regular review to undertaken by the audit committee during the year is included in the ensure compliance with the Code and the Turnbull Guidance 2005 section dealing with the board and its committees.
on internal control and risk management.
Relationship with auditors Risk and the board of directors  were appointed as auditors of the company The directors are ultimately responsible for the groups risk on 8 February 1999, subsequently becoming  management system and for reviewing its effectiveness.
There is a LLP PwC in 2003. regular schedule for the board to consider the groups significant risks and mitigating actions.
The risk management system is designed to The company has in place a formal policy on auditor independence manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business and non-audit services, with which the external auditors are required objectives and there is an ongoing process in place for identifying, to comply, to ensure that the independence of the auditors is not assessing, managing, monitoring and reporting on the significant risks impaired by the nature of non-audit work.
The policy stipulates work faced by individual group companies and by the group as a whole.
which is permitted or not permitted to be performed by the auditors, This process has been in place for the year under review up to the and provides for appropriate approval and oversight processes.
approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The principal risks and Asafurther safeguard, PwC confirm in a formal report to the audit uncertainties facing the group are set out on pages 22 and 23. committee that processes to ensure compliance with this policy are inplace and that these processes are monitored regularly.
This report Executive committee includes a statement that, in their opinion, PwC believe that the nature Excom has specific responsibility as the risk management committee of their non-audit services has not impaired their independence as for the groups system of risk management.
Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements has a groups significant risks and subsequently reports to the board breakdown of non-audit services provided to the group by the onmaterial changes and the associated mitigating actions.
auditors for the year under review.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance, reviews on the The audit committee is satisfied that, for the period under review, the effectiveness of the risk management system were carried out by independence of the auditors has not been affected by the provision excom, as the risk management committee, in April and October 2011 of non-audit services.
Fees in respect of non-audit services provided and in April 2012. by PwC were primarily related to services relating to corporate finance transactions, taxation and our major business capability programme.
Enterprise-wide risk management Excom views the careful and appropriate management of risk as a key In December 2010, the FRC issued revised Guidance on Audit management role.
Managing business risk to deliver opportunities is Committees as part of the new UK Corporate Governance Code akey element of all our business activities, and is undertaken using and, as a consequence, the audit committee reviewed and revised apractical and flexible framework which provides a consistent and thegroups policy on auditor independence and non-audit services.
sustained approach to risk evaluation.
Business risks, which may Anew policy was adopted with effect from 1 April 2011 which bestrategic, operational, financial or environmental, or concern the classifies all non-audit services into audit related services being groups reputation, are understood and visible.
The business context thoseservices which are effectively required by law or regulation, determines in each situation the level of acceptable risk and controls.
andother non-audit services, and provides that engagements for The group continues to seek improvement in the management of risk other non-audit services are subject to formal pre-approval limits, by sharing best practice throughout the organisation.
either bythe full audit committee or by the chairman of the audit committee, depending on the quantum, and that all requests for Key features of the groups system of risk management are: approval be accompanied by a detailed justification as to why the appointment ofthe external auditors to provide the services is in the group statements on strategic direction, ethics and values: best interests of the company, and how auditor independence is clear business objectives and business principles: proposed to be safeguarded in connection with the provision of those an established risk policy: services.
In theinstances where approval was sought for the auditors a continuing process for identification and evaluation of significant to provide non-audit services the committee concluded that the risks to the achievement of business objectives: auditors detailed understanding of our group and ability to deliver management processes in place to mitigate significant risks to an services inatimely fashion provided a cost-effective method of acceptable level: delivery withoutcompromising auditor independence.
ongoing monitoring of significant risks and internal and external environmental factors that may change the groups risk profile: and The committee has a formal system for the review of the effectiveness a regular review by the group of both the type and amount of of the external auditors.
This process involves the external auditors external insurance that it buys, bearing in mind the availability of presenting to the committee their proposed audit strategy followed such cover, its cost and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks bythe output of their initial discussions with management.
committee meeting in May, the external auditors present the output oftheir detailed year-end work.
In making its assessment of external In addition to excoms bi-annual reports to the board on key risks, auditor effectiveness, the committee reviews the audit engagement there is a process of regular reporting to the board through the letters before signature by management, reviews the external auditors auditcommittee on the status of the risk management process.
summary of group and subsidiary issues and managements Ourapproach was strengthened during 2010 by further integrating response to the summary, and conducts an overall review of the strategic planning, internal audit and other risk control specialists into effectiveness of the external audit process and the external auditors.
line managements risk processes and simplifying risk reporting, and This review is facilitated by the use of templates that rate effectiveness this process of gradual refinement and strengthening has continued across 18 key criteria.
Following the review, the committee makes a during this year.
recommendation to the board on the reappointment of the external auditors by the shareholders.
The committee has not adopted a policy Key reports include those that identify, assess and monitor strategic on tendering frequency since it prefers to conduct an annual and operational risks in each division and on a group basis.
66 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued Internal control These letters form the subject of reports to the audit committee, and The Turnbull Guidance recommends internal control practices for cover all subsidiary companies, as well as MillerCoors and Tsogo UKlisted companies to assist them in assessing the application of SunHoldings Limited which submit tailored letters of representation.
theCodes principles and compliance with the Codes provisions with Where material, group executives sit on the boards of associated regard to internal control.
Directors and members of the executive committee alsomake annual written declarations of interests and are obliged The groups systems of internal control are designed and operated toreportwithout delay any potential or actual conflicts of interest tosupport the identification, evaluation and management of risks which may arise.
These include controls in relation to the financial reporting process and the preparation of consolidated accounts, but The directors are responsible for the groups systems of internal extend across all areas of operations.
They are subject to continuous control and for reviewing their effectiveness annually.
The board review as circumstances change and new risks emerge.
hasconducted a review of the effectiveness of the groups internal controls covering material financial, operational and compliance Key features of the systems of internal control are: controls and risk management systems for the year under review.
Necessary actions have been, or are being, taken to remedy any the risk management system described in the preceding section: significant weaknesses identified from the boards review of the written policies and procedures within our businesses, which are internal control system.
The systems of internal control are designed detailed in policy manuals: to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business clearly defined lines of accountability and delegation of authority: objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance minimisation of operating risk by using appropriate infrastructure, against material misstatement or loss.
In reviewing these, the board controls, systems and people throughout the businesses: has taken into account the results of all the work carried out by business continuity planning, including preventative and internal and external auditors.
contingency measures, back-up capabilities and the purchase ofinsurance: Fosters Group Limited Fosters became part of the group during the the company has maintained a state of readiness for compliance second half of the year under review.
Fosters was a listed company with s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act through the identification and until shortly after its acquisition and was required to comply with testing of key financial controls under its Internal Financial Control relevant regulatory and corporate governance requirements applicable IFC programme.
This is a voluntary initiative, and has led to a to companies listed on the Australian Securities Exchange.
As part of further strengthening of internal control systems and processes the integration of the Fosters group of companies into the SABMiller within the group: group, work is under way to embed systems, controls and procedures key policies employed in managing operating risk involve to bring them into full alignment with those in place throughout the segregation of duties, transaction authorisation, monitoring, rest of the group.
financial and managerial review and comprehensive reporting andanalysis against approved standards and budgets: The board, with advice from the audit committee, has completed its a treasury operating framework which establishes policies and annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control and manages liquidity and financial risks, including foreign exchange, risk management for the period since 1 April 2011 in accordance with interest rate and counterparty exposures, and incorporates central the Turnbull Guidance.
and regional treasury committees that monitor these activities and compliance with the policies.
Treasury policies, risk limits and Internal audit monitoring procedures are reviewed regularly by the audit The global internal audit function consists of the group internal audit committee on behalf of the board: and team, led by the Chief Internal Auditor, plus regional and country a group tax risk and tax operating framework which forms the basis auditfunctions that operate in each of the groups principal areas of tax governance across the group and is managed by the group ofbusiness.
The regional and country functions are centrally tax function which monitors tax risk and implements strategies and co-ordinated by the group internal audit team.
The country internal procedures to control it.
audit functions report to local senior finance management but have direct access and accountability to local audit committees, the Assurance on compliance with systems of internal control and on regional heads of internal audit and the Chief Internal Auditor.
theireffectiveness is obtained through regular management reviews, reviews of key financial controls, internal audit reviews and quality Internal audit activities, all of which are risk-based, are performed by assurance, testing of certain aspects of the internal financial control teams of appropriate, qualified and experienced employees.
Third systems by the external auditors during the course of their statutory parties may be engaged to support audit work as appropriate.
The examinations and regular reports to the audit committee by the external Chief Internal Auditor, who reports functionally to the Chief Financial auditors.
The groups divisional finance, control and assurance Officer and who has regular meetings with the chairman of the audit committees consider the results of these reviews to confirm that committee, prepares formal reports for each audit committee meeting controls are functioning and to ensure that any material breakdowns as to the consolidated activities and key findings of the global internal and remedial actions have been reported to the appropriate boards audit function.
In relation to the groups associated undertakings or joint ventures, these matters are reviewed at the level of the associates The global internal audit function uses a standardised group-wide orjoint ventures boards or other governing committees.
internal audit methodology which is in compliance with the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal At the half year and at the year end the divisional managing directors Auditing of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The function operates and finance directors of all the groups operations, each of the aformal global quality assurance and effectiveness programme.
groupsfunctional directors corporate affairs, corporate finance and Accordingly, detailed quality review assessments are performed development, legal, marketing and supply chain and human resources withregard to the regional and country internal audit teams, to ensure and each of the direct reports to the Chief Financial Officer, are compliance with defined quality and performance measures.
This required to submit to the Company Secretary on behalf of the board process provides a basis for the annual review of the effectiveness formal letters of representation on controls, compliance and notification ofthe global internal audit function and results in a formal report of continuing or potential material financial and legal exposures.
prepared by the Chief Internal Auditor to the audit committee tosupport the committees formal annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal audit.
In addition, a periodic review ofinternalaudit is undertaken by an independent external consultantin accordance with the requirements of the Institute ofInternal Auditors.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 67 The audit committee has therefore satisfied itself that adequate, In addition to scheduled management-led programmes in which objective internal audit assurance standards and procedures exist executives interact with investors and analysts, the Chairman annually within the group, and that continuous improvement in the quality contacts all shareholders or their representatives holding more than andobjectivity of the global internal audit function remains a primary 1% of the issued share capital of the company, to enable him to objective of the department.
address any queries which shareholders may have about the governance of the company or non-operational aspects of company Whistleblowing measures strategy.
It is also, more broadly, designed to give the board a greater All employees in subsidiaries within the group have the opportunity awareness of shareholder concerns.
During the year the Chairman tomake confidential disclosures about suspected impropriety or and Mr Manser, as Senior Independent Director, accompanied by the wrongdoing.
The Company Secretary or the Deputy Company Company Secretary, met with a number of institutional shareholders.
Secretary, in consultation with the Chief Internal Auditor if appropriate, Alongside the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the decides on the appropriate method and level of investigation.
The Company Secretary are also available to discuss issues with audit committee is notified of all material disclosures made and shareholders and views expressed are communicated by the receives reports on the results of investigations and actions taken.
As part of this initiative the Chairman offers Theaudit committee has the power to request further information, tomeet with significant shareholders in the month before the annual conduct its own inquiries or order additional action as it sees fit.
general meeting specifically to deal with issues arising from the annual report and notice of the annual general meeting.
All non-executive directors of the company are invited to participate in this process.
Institutional and shareholder comment on the annual report is Remuneration conveyed by the Company Secretary to the full board and to the auditand remuneration committees in relation to matters within A description of the composition, terms of reference and scope of theirrespective terms of reference.
responsibilities and work undertaken by the remuneration committee during the year is included in the section dealing with the During April 2012 we also consulted with major shareholders before boardscommittees.
announcing the proposed appointment of Mr Mackay as Executive Chairman and Dr Clark as Chief Operating Officer.
The Chairman, the A detailed description of the companys remuneration policies is Senior Independent Director and the Company Secretary conducted included in the directors remuneration report on pages 68 to 83 a number of calls and personal meetings with major shareholders and ofthis annualreport.
institutional investors to discuss the proposals with them.
Following the announcement of the appointments, the Senior Independent Director then wrote personally to all shareholders setting out the rationale for Relations with shareholders the proposed appointments, and explaining why the directors thought it in the best interests of SABMiller to make these appointments.
All shareholders were again encouraged to attend the annual general meeting held in July 2011, which provided shareholders with the John Davidson opportunity to ask questions of the board and chairmen of all the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary board committees.
At the meeting, all resolutions were put to a vote For and on behalf of the board of SABMiller plc on a poll, with the results being published on the companys website, and on the London and Johannesburg stock exchange news services.
11 June 2012 As the geographic spread of shareholders inevitably means that not every shareholder can attend a meeting in the UK, a video film and a full transcript of the proceedings of the meeting were published on the companys website.
Similar arrangements are planned for the forthcoming annual general meeting.
The company maintains a dedicated investor relations function which reports to the Director of Corporate Affairs.
The investor relations team builds and maintains long-term relationships with institutional investors and analysts and, in partnership with our corporate and divisional management teams and within the scope of regulatory constraints, gives presentations on regional business outlooks and strives to ensure that these are understood across the global equity markets in subsequent one-to-one meetings with investors.
Dialogue on sustainable developments and socially responsible investment matters is handled by the Group Head of Sustainable Development, who undertakes focused meetings with interested investors and stakeholders.
