Board of directors Committed leadership Donald Brydon CBE Guy Berruyer Paul Harrison Tamara Ingram OBE Ruth Markland Ian Mason Mark Rolfe 50 The Board of Sage is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
It provides leadership to the business as a whole, having regard to the interests and views of its shareholders Donald Brydon CBE Tamara Ingram OBE Chairman Independent non-executive Donald joined the Board in July 2012 and succeeded Tony Hobson as Tamara, who joined the Board in December 2004, is responsible for WPP plcs Chairman on 1 September 2012.
He is Chairman of the Royal Mail Group and Procter & Gamble business worldwide.
She is also Executive Vice President, Smiths Group plc.
Donald had a 20-year career with Barclays Group, during Executive Managing Director of Grey Global, and sits on the Development which time he was Chairman and Chief Executive of BZW Investment Board for the Almeida Theatre.
Management and acting Chief Executive of BZW, followed by 15 years with Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee the AXA Group, including holding the posts of Chairman and Chief Executive of AXA Investment Managers and Chairman of AXA Framlington.
He has also Ruth Markland recently been Chairman of the London Metal Exchange, Amersham plc, Senior Independent non-executive Taylor Nelson Sofres plc and the ifs School of Finance and a Director of Allied Ruth is a non-executive director of Standard Chartered plc and a member Domecq plc and Scottish Power plc.
He is a past Chairman of EveryChild.
of the Supervisory Board of Arcadis NV.
She was formerly Managing Partner, Nomination Committee Chairman, Remuneration Committee Asia for the international law firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer.
Ruth was appointed to the Board in September 2006, becoming its Senior Independent Guy Berruyer director in March 2011.
Chief Executive Officer Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee Chairman Guy joined Sage in 1997 to run its French operation.
He was appointed to the Board in January 2000 as CEO for its Mainland Europe business and in 2005 Ian Mason also took charge of its Asian operations.
Prior to joining Sage he was Country Independent non-executive Manager and then European Managing Director for Intuit, the US software Ian joined the Board in November 2007.
He is Group Chief Executive company.
Previously he worked at the French hardware company, Groupe Bull, of Electrocomponents plc and has previously worked for McKinsey and where he was a Director of Marketing, and Claris, as Southern European The Boston Consulting Group BCG.
On 2 October 2012, Guy became a non-executive director of Meggitt PLC, a leading international company specialising in high performance Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee components and sub-systems for the aerospace, defence and energy markets.
Mark Rolfe Paul Harrison Independent non-executive Chief Financial Officer Mark joined the Board in December 2007.
After qualifying as a chartered A chartered accountant, Paul joined Sage in 1997 from Price Waterhouse to accountant with Coopers and Lybrand, Mark joined Gallaher Group plc in become Group Financial Controller.
He joined the Board in April 2000 as Chief 1986, where he was Finance Director for seven years, retiring in 2007.
Following the aquisition of Folhamatic, Paul was given also a non-executive director of Hornby plc, Barratt Developments plc and additional responsibility for the Brazil operation.
In May 2007, Paul was Debenhams plc and Chairman of Lane, Clark and Peacock LLP.
appointed to the Board of Hays plc as a Non-Executive Director and, in Audit Committee Chairman, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee November 2011, became the Senior Independent non-executive director.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 51 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview
