Corporate governance report Our governance framework The various elements which comprise our governance framework are listed below, along with an overview of their responsibilities.
Shareholders Other stakeholders Board of directors 1 Chairman 2 Executive directors 4 Independent non-executive directors Executive Committee Nomination Remuneration Audit Company Committee Committee Committee Secretary Risk management External audit Group Group policies and Internal audit functions The Company Secretary is available to all directors to provide advice and The Board assistance, and is responsible for providing governance advice to the Board.
The Board is responsible for the overall management of the Company, its strategy and long-term objectives.
It provides leadership to the Company, Risk management and Internal audit having regard to the interest of shareholders.
The risk management and internal audit function facilitates the identification of risks and carries out reviews and testing of the controls that are in place to Nomination Committee mitigate those risks.
Further details of the work of internal audit are provided This Committee reviews the composition of the Board to ensure it remains on page 55. appropriate for the needs of the business and plans for its progressive refreshing.
It leads the process for the identification and selection of new External audit directors and makes recommendations to the Board in respect of such The external audit function provides independent audit and review.
The Committee also makes recommendations to the Board on details of the work of external audit are provided on page 56. the membership of its committees.
Executive Committee Remuneration Committee This Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and is responsible for This Committee determines the policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, overseeing operations in the Groups regions and the Groups functional areas.
executive directors, Company Secretary and senior executives of the Group.
It comprises the senior executives within the Group.
Further details of the work Further details on the Groups remuneration policy are provided in the of the Executive Committee are provided on pages 18 and 19.
Remuneration report on pages 64 to 73.
Group functions Audit Committee Certain specific administrative functions are controlled centrally at Group level The Audit Committee oversees the Companys financial reporting, risk and report to the Board via various members of the Executive Committee.
management and internal control procedures, and the work of its internal and For example, Finance, Investor Relations, Tax and Treasury report through external auditors.
Further details on the activities of the Audit Committee are the Chief Financial Officer.
Procedures are clearly defined to ensure that the provided on pages 55 to 56. activities of these functions reduce the risk profile of the organisation.
Company Secretary Group policies The role of the Company Secretary is to ensure good information flows to the The Board is responsible for ensuring that adequate policies and procedures Board and its committees and between senior management and non-executive are in place.
These are reviewed and amended as required to ensure that they directors.
He facilitates the induction of new directors and assists with remain in line with legislation and regulations and are sufficiently robust to ensure professional development as required.
He also ensures Board procedures appropriate internal controls are maintained, whilst also providing a suitable are complied with and that applicable rules and regulations are followed.
framework within which the businesses and Group functions can operate.
52 How our governance framework operates women and the Company would expect to maintain a similar balance through The Board 2013 to 2015 as the Board is refreshed during this period.
The Board must The Board is responsible for the overall management of the Company, its continue to provide strong leadership at Sage and, therefore, the Company strategy and long-term objectives.
It provides leadership to the Company, continues to appoint only the most appropriate candidates.
having regard to the interest of shareholders and other stakeholders.
Board evaluation Board meetings The Board recognises the importance of reviewing its practices and The Chairman, in conjunction with the Chief Executive and Company performance on a regular basis.
To achieve this, the Board has evaluated its Secretary, plans the agenda for each Board meeting.
That agenda is issued performance and that of its committees and individual members.
In the past, with supporting papers typically during the week before the meeting is held.
the Board has evaluated its performance through the completion of detailed These supporting papers provide the Board with appropriate information it questionnaires and discussions between individual directors and the Chairman.
needs to enable the Board as a whole to discharge its duties.
The Code encourages the Board to seek the assistance of a third-party in Board meetings are held both inside and outside the United Kingdom at its evaluation at least once in every three years.
In the year under review, operating companies of the Group.
Directors are also encouraged to visit therefore, the directors were assisted in their evaluation by an independent overseas operations on a regular basis.
This provides the Board and individual third-party, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review.
Dr Long is entirely directors with the opportunity to broaden their understanding of the business independent of the Group and performs no services for the Group other and the key markets in which it operates.
than assisting in directors evaluations.
Dr Long met each of the directors for an in-depth interview and attended Board and strategy meetings to view The Board meets formally not less than six times a year, reviewing trading the Board in action.
She also reviewed the papers prepared for the Board.
performance, ensuring adequate funding, setting and monitoring strategy, Following this review, she prepared a summary of the Boards strengths and examining major acquisition opportunities and reviewing regular reports to weaknesses, her observations and recommendations.
These were shared with shareholders.
In the year under review the Board met on ten occasions, of all members of the Board and discussed with the Chairman, Chief Executive which four such meetings were held at short notice.
All directors in office at and Senior Independent director.
As a result of the review, the Board is the time attended all of these Board meetings, other than one meeting, held considering practices in a number of areas.
at short notice, which Ms Markland was unable to attend.
Board practices Board composition The Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters reserved to it for The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, one other decision which is available to shareholders on request to the Secretary at executive director and four independent non-executive directors.
The roles of the registered office and which is also available on the Companys website the Chairman and the Chief Executive are quite distinct from one another and at www.
are clearly defined in written terms of reference for each role adopted by the Board and available to shareholders on request to the Secretary at the Under the Companies Act 2006 a director must avoid a situation where he registered office and on the Companys website at www.
or she has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
The Act allows directors of public As can be seen from the directors biographies on page 51, the directors companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, have a range of experience and can bring independent judgement to bear where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The articles on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct, of association give the directors authority to approve such situations and to which is vital to the success of the Group.
It is the balance of skills, experience, include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with.
In order independence and knowledge evidenced by the biographies which ensures to address this issue, at the commencement of each Board meeting, the Board the duties and responsibilities of the Board and its Committees are discharged considers a register of interests and potential conflicts of directors and gives, effectively.
To give them a full understanding of the business on appointment, when appropriate, any necessary approvals.
new members of the Board undergo a full, formal and tailored induction to the Board.
Mr D H Brydon joined the Board in July 2012 and became Chairman There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether to of the Board on 1 September 2012.
The Board considered Mr Brydon to be authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only directors who have no independent on his appointment both to the Board and to the role of Chairman.
interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant All directors are subject to re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the success.
The directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving Group.
To assist in this, training is also made available to directors and training authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
These procedures on conflict needs are assessed as part of the evaluation procedure of the Board, which is have been followed throughout the year and the Board considers the approach discussed below.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the to operate effectively.
Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The The Chairman Secretary ensures that the directors take independent professional advice The role of Chairman carries a particular responsibility to monitor and assess as required at the expense of the Company when it is judged necessary to the corporate governance practices of the Group.
The terms of reference for discharge their responsibilities as directors.
The appointment and removal the Chairman ensure that this role is quite distinct from that of the Chief of the Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Executive and are set out on the Companys website at www.
To The Company is also very supportive of the aims and objectives of The Davies ensure a proper dialogue with directors, the Chairman holds meetings with the Report on Women on Boards.
The Board of Sage currently comprises 29% non-executive directors without the executive directors to assess their views.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 53 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Corporate governance report continued In addition, the non-executive directors have met without the Chairman present Remuneration Committee to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Chairman also ensures that shareholder communications and responses are discussed at each meeting of the Board and that all shareholders have access to the non-executive directors, through a request to the Chairman or the Secretary.
The Senior Independent director The role of Senior Independent director provides a point of contact for those shareholders who wish to raise issues with the Board, other than through the Chairman.
Ms R Markland, who undertakes this role in the Company, is available to consult with shareholders and also chairs meetings of the non-executive directors without the Chairman present.
Committees of the Board The three committees of the Board deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
These are the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Further details of these Committees are set out below.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Ms R Markland.
Whilst the Board notes that all independent non-executive directors other than The other members of the Committee are the Chairman, the Chairman are members of all Board committees, it considers that the Mr D H Brydon, and the other independent non-executive membership is appropriate in light of the Boards policy that all independent directors, Ms T Ingram, Mr I Mason and Mr M E Rolfe.
non-executive directors are given the opportunity to take part in the discussions of those committees.
This Committee determines the policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, The terms of reference of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit executive directors, Company Secretary and senior executives of the Group.
Committees are reviewed annually and are available on request from the Further details on the Groups remuneration policy are provided in the Secretary at the registered office of the Company or on the Companys website Remuneration report on pages 64 to 73. at www.
The Secretary acts as secretary to all the Committees.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Companys framework of executive remuneration.
It determines the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the executive directors including performance share awards, performance-related bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation payments.
The Committee also monitors remuneration for those senior executives below Board level.
Independent remuneration consultants advise the Committee.
The Board itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors.
Under its terms of reference, the Committee meets at least four times in the year.
In the year under review, eight meetings of the Committee were held of which five were held on full notice and three were shorter meetings held by telephone on short notice.
All members in office at the time attended all the meetings other than on two occasions when Ms Ingram was unable to attend meetings held on full notice and one occasion when each of Mr Brydon and Ms Ingram were unable to attend meetings held on short notice.
All directors receive Board and committee papers in advance of any meeting and have the opportunity to comment on them prior to the relevant meeting.
The Chief Executive may, by invitation of the Committee, attend meetings except when his own performance or remuneration is under review but he is not a member of the Committee.
In the year under review, the Committee addressed the remuneration issues related to a number of senior executive appointments and the retirement of an executive director.
As seen in the Remuneration report on pages 64 to 73, the Committee undertook a full review of remuneration policy and related consultation with shareholders.
It paid particular attention to bonus arrangements in support of the goals of the Group set out on pages 8 and 9.
Details of the Companys policies on directors remuneration are given in the Remuneration report, together with further details of the .
54 Audit Committee Work of the Committee in the financial year In the financial year, the Audit Committee met four times with all members present on each occasion except one meeting which Ms Markland was unable to attend and one meeting which Ms Ingram was unable to attend and reported its conclusions to the Board.
It met privately with the internal and external auditors without executives present.
It also met with executive management and executive directors.
The Committee invites executive directors, management, external and internal auditors to attend meetings as it considers appropriate for the matters being discussed.
The Committee discharged its obligations in respect of the financial year in the following ways: Financial reporting During the year the Committee reviewed the interim and annual financial statements.
The Committee received a report from the external auditors setting The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr M E Rolfe.
The other out the accounting or judgemental issues which required its attention.
The members of the Committee are independent non-executive auditors reports were based on a full audit Annual Report and a high level directors, Ms R Markland, Ms T Ingram and Mr I Mason.
Internal controls and risk management Mr Rolfe is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and The Committee considered reports from internal audit on the operation of, Wales and is considered by the Board to have the recent and relevant financial and issues arising from, the Groups internal control procedures, together experience required under the provisions of the Code.
The other members of with observations from the external auditors and discussions with senior the Committee have a wide range of business experience, which is evidenced management.
The Committee monitored the effectiveness of the Groups risk in their biographies on page 51. management process, which considered the key risks, both financial and The Audit Committee oversees the Companys financial reporting, risk non-financial, facing the Group and the effectiveness of the Groups controls management and internal control procedures, and the work of its internal and to manage and reduce the impact of those risks.
Risk topics The main duties of the Committee, set out in its terms of reference, are to: At specific Audit Committee meetings, time is allowed for deep dive reviews of particular risk topics.
Topics reviewed in the year include the finance review and advise the Board on the Companys interim and annual organisation, risks within the strategy and the provision of online services.
financial statements, its accounting policies and on the control and mitigation of its financial and business risks: Internal audit review and advise the Board on the effectiveness of the Companys Internal audit activities and responsibilities are provided by an in-house internal internal control environment, including its whistleblowing procedures: audit team, supplemented under co-source agreements by third-party providers.
The role of Head of Internal Audit is undertaken by the Group Risk review the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the external and Assurance Director who has a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee and internal auditors, the results of their audit work and of the response and its Chairman in order to ensure independence.
An internal audit of management: charter is also in place which outlines the objectives, authority, scope and make recommendations on the appointment and remuneration of external responsibilities of internal audit.
Performance against this charter is reviewed auditors and to monitor their performance and independence: and on an annualbasis.
approve and monitor the policy for non-audit services provided by It is the role of internal audit to advise management and the Board on the the external auditors to ensure that the independence of the auditors extent to which systems of internal control are effective.
The internal audit plan, is not compromised.
which covers the scope, authority and resources of the function, is determined through a structured process of risk assessment and is approved by the In order to fulfil its duties, the Committee receives sufficient, reliable and timely AuditCommittee.
The terms of reference of the Committee are reviewed on an annual basis and are available at www.
In its The nature and scope of the work of the internal audit team was reviewed and most recent review the Committee was satisfied that the terms enabled the approved, the reports of results received and the responses of management Committee to fulfil its responsibilities and determined that no material changes considered.
The plan set out at the beginning of the year was achieved and were necessary.
the outcome of the work was in line with expectations.
The Board makes appointments to the Committee.
Full induction training is The scope of work covered by internal audit provides assurance coverage provided for new members and additional training is provided as and when across both key risks to Sage and the main functions within Sage.
Having reviewed the composition of the Committee in the year above financial and IT control reviews, areas of coverage during the year under review, the Board is satisfied that the Committee has the resources included compliance, online services, treasury, source code storage and and expertise to fulfil effectively its responsibilities, including those relating business continuity.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 55 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Corporate governance report continued External audit The Companys auditors,  LLP, also perform non-audit services for the Group principally tax advice over and above the The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation external audit.
The fees in relation to these services were 0.8m, of which and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit.
The policy assigns 0.6m was attributable to tax compliance services, 0.1m to tax advisory oversight responsibility for monitoring the independence, objectivity and services and 0.1m to other services.
Further details of fees paid to auditors compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee are set out on page 90. and day-to-day responsibility to the Chief Financial Officer.
There are no contractual restrictions on the choice of the Committee as to To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit external audit and, having considered the services provided by the current Committee reviewed: external auditors, their independence and knowledge of the Group and the the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and any variations: factors referred to above, the Committee has determined to recommend to the Board the reappointment of the auditors at the Annual General Meeting in the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling of key March 2013.
In reaching this decision, the Committee also had regard to the accounting and audit judgements: and likelihood of a withdrawal of the auditor from the market.
The current external the content of the external auditors reports.
auditors were appointed to that role in 1988.
The Committee has determined that, providing the work of the external auditors remains entirely satisfactory, The scope, fee, performance and independence of the external auditor are formal consideration of a tender process will be undertaken every five years, considered annually by the Audit Committee.
The Committee is confident that around the time that the audit partner is normally changed.
the objectivity and independence of the auditors is not impaired in any way by reason of their non-audit work or other factors and has adopted controls The most recent change of audit partner occurred in the year to 30 September to ensure that this independence is not compromised.
These controls include 2010 and, therefore, formal consideration of an audit tender process took place the continued monitoring of the independence and effectiveness of the during the course of that year.
The Committee gave full consideration to the performance and independence Audit partners are rotated every five years with the most recent change taking of the auditors and after this review considered that a tender process was not place in the year to 30 September 2010.
A formal statement of independence required given the processes already in place to ensure independence and the from the external auditors is received each year.
In addition, the Audit performance to date of the current auditors.
Committee has adopted a specific policy on auditor independence, drawing together the various existing Group policies in this area.
This policy requires that there is full consideration of independence issues before any appointment of an employee or former employee of the auditor to a position with the Group.
It expressly states that the Group will not engage the auditors to undertake any work that could threaten the independence of the auditors and prohibits the Group from engaging the auditors to undertake certain types of service, such as, amongst others, human resources, legal and actuarial services.
The Committee believes that the Company receives particular benefit from tax advice provided by its auditors, given their wide and detailed knowledge of the Group and its international nature.
Executive management has the discretion, subject to certain financial limitations, to obtain taxation services from the auditors without prior reference to the Audit Committee, subject to informing the Audit Committee regularly of the amount and nature of fees for such services.
Where these financial limitations are exceeded, the approval of the Audit Committee is required for such appointment.
The Group also receives taxation advice from other large accountancy practices as and when appropriate.
Non-audit services other than in relation to taxation may be undertaken by the external auditors, subject to the rules referred to above, with all projects expected to cost in excess of an amount set by the Audit Committee being approved in advance either by the Chairman of the Audit Committee or by the full Audit Committee, depending on the expected cost of the project.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee may require that such projects are put out to tender to a number of firms.
In the year under review, all non-audit services provided by the external auditors were in accordance with these rules.
It is the policy of the Committee to require that acquisition due diligence be undertaken by firms other than the auditors unless conflicts of interest for comparable firms make this impractical.
At each meeting, the Committee receives a report from the external auditors providing an update on the fees for non-audit services incurred since the previous meeting.
Where the cumulative non-audit fees in the year are anticipated to exceed a certain sum, the prior approval of the Audit Committee is required.
In the year to 30 September 2012 the audit fee was 2.0m.
56 e M t i a t i u g l a a t v e E y A f i n t n a Nomination Committee Internal control and risk management The Board is responsible for the operation and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and risk management.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is managed on a day-to-day basis by the Group Risk and Assurance Director and has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this report.
It is regularly reviewed by the Board and complies fully with the Turnbull guidance.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed and by their nature can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of this process has been reviewed by the Audit Committee, which reports its findings to the Board.
The processes used by the Audit Committee to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control include discussions with management on significant risk areas identified and the review of plans for, and results from, internal and The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman, external audits.
Mr D H Brydon and consists of the Chairman and four independent non-executive directors, Ms T Ingram, The Audit Committee reports the results of its review of the risk assessment Ms R Markland, Mr I Mason and Mr M E Rolfe.
In the absence process to the Board.
The Board then draws its collective conclusion as to the of the Chairman of the Board, the Committee is chaired by effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The governance framework for the Senior Independent Director.
risk management and the key procedures, which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control, are set out below.
This Committee reviews the composition of the Board to ensure it remains appropriate for the needs of the business and plans for its progressive Risk management processes and responsibilities refreshing, having regard to its balance and structure.
It also considers issues The processes to identify and manage the key risks to the success of the of succession.
Recruitment consultants are used to assist in the process.
It Group are an integral part of the internal control environment.
leads the process for the identification and selection of new directors and makes recommendations to the Board in respect of such appointments.
The Committee also makes recommendations to the Board on the membership of its committees.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for a number of matters relating to Audit the composition of the Board and its committees.
The Nomination Committee Committee Group is also responsible for reviewing the structure of the Board, evaluating the Board balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and advising the Board on any areas where further recruitment may be appropriate.
It also considers the succession planning of the Group for key executive personnel at Board level and below and undertook a review of this area in the year under review.
The terms of reference of the Committee, available on www.
com, require the Committee to have regard to diversity in considering appointments to the Board.
In making its decisions it has regard to the diversity policy referred to Group Risk on page 44.
Executive and Assurance Committee The Nomination Committee meets not less than once a year.
Three meetings Director of the Committee took place in the year under review at which all the members of the Committee in office at the time were present other than on one occasion when Ms Ingram was unable to attend.
In the year under review, the Committee dealt with a number of issues including the appointment of a new Chairman, a number of senior executive appointments and the retirement of an executive director from the Board.
The Principal risks then Chairman took no part in the discussion at meetings of the Committee relating to his successor.
In identifying a potential new Chairman, the Committee retained the services of an executive search consultant.
That consultant provided a list of potential candidates having regard to the policies of the Group and the terms of reference of the Committee.
A number of candidates on that list met members of the Committee, who then determined Country Regional to approach the current Chairman.
The current Chairman was independent CEOs and and Group Functional on his appointment to the Board.
The Committee settled the terms of his management Heads appointment which were recommended to the Board.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 57 l e y d s I e Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Corporate governance report continued 1 Executive Committee Whistleblowing The Executive Committee is responsible for the identification, reporting A whistleblowing telephone hotline service operates in many operating and ongoing management of risks and for the stewardship of the risk companies in the Group including all those in the UK and US allowing management approach.
employees to raise issues of concern in relation to dishonesty or malpractice on an entirely confidential basis.
Processes for the confidential reporting of The Executive Committee identifies and assesses the key strategic risks to concerns exist in France, Germany and Spain and the Group continues to seek the Group on at least an annual basis.
The output of the assessment is sent to the introduction of further telephone hotlines where local legislation permits.
the Group Board for review and to the country CEOs for inclusion in their risk The Audit Committee receives regular reports on any matters raised through assessment exercises.
these services and monitors their use throughout the Group.
As a result of these structures, the Board considers that it receives adequate information 2 Country CEOs and Functional Heads for the identification and assessment of risk.
Country CEOs and functional heads are responsible for the identification, reporting and ongoing management of risks in their respective countries Financial reporting and functions.
In addition to the general internal controls and risk management processes The country CEOs and functional heads facilitate their risk assessment described above, the Group also has specific internal controls and risk exercise to review the key strategic risks and to identify the top local risks management systems to govern the financial reporting process.
The within their country of function.
The output of the assessment is sent to requirements for producing financial information are governed by the Group regional management and the Group Risk and Assurance Director for review Accounting Manual, against which the Groups external auditors review the and challenge.
Financial control requirements are set out in a detailed Financial Controls Policy, which is subject to internal audit reviews on an 3 Regional management and Group management annual basis.
Any part of the Group not subject to a specific internal audit Regional management and Group management are responsible for the review of financial controls in any given year is required to self-assess reporting, challenge and ongoing management of risks in their respective the effectiveness of their financial control environment.
representations covering the compliance with relevant policies and the accuracy of financial information are also collated on an annual basis.
Regional management, with support from the Group Risk and Assurance Director, review and challenge the risk information from the countries and Quality and integrity of personnel agree the top regional risks and the regional response to the key strategic risks.
The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment Group management, facilitated by the Group Risk and Assurance Director, standards and the provision of subsequent training and development.
identify top risks from central functions for example, tax and treasury for High-quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment.
inclusion in the functional level risk report.
Management structure 4 Group Risk and Assurance Director The Board has overall responsibility for the Group.
Each executive director has The Group Risk and Assurance Director is responsible for the facilitation and been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
A clearly implementation of the risk management approach throughout the Group.
defined organisational structure exists within which individual responsibilities The Group Risk and Assurance Director consolidates the regional risk reports are identified and can be monitored.
The management of the Group as a and creates the Group Risk Report containing top local risks and the whole is delegated to the Chief Executive, the executive directors and the responses to the key strategic risks for the Group as a whole.
Risk Report is sent to the Executive Committee for review and challenge.
The Executive Committee meets regularly to agree strategy, monitor performance and consider key business issues.
As part of its review, it 5 Audit Committee considers the risks associated with the delivery of strategy and important The Audit Committee is responsible for the independent review and challenge governance issues within the operating companies.
Within the Group team, of the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management approach.
based in Newcastle upon Tyne, there are a number of central administrative The Audit Committee review and challenge the Group Risk Report.
The functions such as Group Treasury, Corporate Communications, Group Legal Group Risk Report is then submitted to the Group Board for review.
These functions report to the Board through its executive members and the members of the Executive Committee.
A number 6 Group Board of Group-wide policies issued by the central Group team and administered The Group Board has overall responsibility for risk management and both centrally and at local level, ensure compliance with key governance implementation of the risk management policy.
These policies cover areas such as finance, data protection and mergers and acquisitions.
The Group Board reviews the output from the Executive Committee.
The conduct of Sages individual businesses is delegated to the local During the year the risk management processes and procedures set to ensure executive management teams.
Details of the authority delegated to local that risks are identified from a top down strategic perspective as well as a and regional management is set out in a delegation of authority matrix which bottom up local perspective, have operated as described above.
Facilitated is communicated to management throughout the business.
These teams risk workshops have been completed with the Executive Committee and major are accountable for the conduct and performance of their businesses within territories around the Group.
Results from risk management activities have the agreed business strategy.
They have full authority to act subject to the been reported to and discussed directly with the Executive Committee reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board and to Group duringthe year.
58 Internal audit The Group has an in-house internal audit team supplemented under co-source agreements with third-party providers to review compliance with procedures and assess the integrity of the control environment.
Internal audit acts as a service to the businesses by assisting with the continuous improvement of controls and procedures.
Actions are agreed in response to its recommendations and these are followed up by the Audit Committee to ensure that satisfactory control is maintained.
Budgetary process A comprehensive budgeting system is in place, with annual budgets for all operating subsidiaries being approved by respective subsidiary boards.
Subsequently the combined budget is subject to consideration and approval by the Board.
Management information systems provide the directors with relevant and timely information required to monitor financial performance.
Investment appraisal including acquisitions Budgetary approval and defined authorisation levels regulate capital expenditure.
As part of the budgetary process the Board considers proposals for research and development programmes.
Acquisition activity is subject to internal guidelines governing investment appraisal criteria, financial targets, negotiation, execution and post-acquisition management.
Relations with shareholders Communication with shareholders is given high priority.
A full Annual Report & Accounts is sent to all shareholders who wish to receive one.
The Company also has a website www.
com which contains up-to-date information on Group activities, published financial results and the Annual Report and Accounts.
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders and there are presentations to analysts after the Companys announcement of the year end and half-year results.
At each Board meeting, the Board receives an update on presentations to investors and any communication from shareholders to ensure that directors, both executive and non-executive, have an understanding of their views.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes theirparticipation.
Information included in the Directors report Certain information that fulfils the requirements of the Corporate Governance Statement can be found in the Directors report in the sections headed Substantial shareholdings, Deadlines for voting rights, Repurchase of Shares, Amendment of the Companys articles of association, Appointment and replacement of directors and Powers of the directors and are incorporated into this corporate governance section by reference.
By order of the Board M J Robinson, Secretary 5 December 2012 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 59 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview
