Section 4 | Governance Corporate Governance Report Reserved and delegated authorities There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
This schedule, which is reviewed annually, includes approval of: Group strategy Annual financial and operating plans Major capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments Annual and half-year financial results Satisfying itself as to the integrity of financial information Dividend policy Ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board and senior management and appointing and removing Directors, the Company Secretary and Committee members Treasury policy Review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management process Training and development of the Board and the Company Secretary.
Other specic responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees which operate within clearly dened terms of reference.
Details of the responsibilities delegated to the Committees are given on pages 88 to 90.
Each Committee has an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group.
Information ow Senior executives below Board level attend certain Board meetings at which they make presentations on the results and strategies of their divisional units and functional areas of the Group.
Board members are given appropriate documents in advance of each Board meeting and each Committee meeting, as appropriate.
Board meetings are scheduled six times a year, four over two days at a time, and two meetings held for one day each.
Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion of the strategy, trading and financial performance and risk management of the Group.
Board and Committee meetings are held at varying locations and the opportunity is used to combine the formal business of the Board with site visits and divisional presentations and discussions.
Additional Board meetings are scheduled as required.
The attendance of individual Directors at Board meetings held during the year is shown in the table on page 87.
Company Secretary and independent advice The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters, ensuring that all Board procedures are followed and there are good information ows, together with facilitating induction programmes for newly appointed Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Board has approved a procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separately held and the division of their responsibilities is clearly established, set out in writing, and agreed by the Board.
As Chairman, Alastair Lyons is responsible for: Ensuring the effective operation of the Board, its agenda and processes Promoting the highest standards of corporate governance and ensuring appropriate communication with shareholders on the Groups overall performance Ensuring appropriate Director training and development takes place Board succession planning.
The Chief Executive, Christopher Hyman, is responsible for: The formation and implementation of the Groups global strategy Delivery of the Groups business plan Providing motivation and leadership to the operating divisions, chairing the Executive Committee and setting its style and tone Setting the overall policy and direction of Sercos business operations, investments and other activities within a framework of prudent and effective risk management and ensuring that divisions and functions control those risks satisfactorily Providing leadership and representation of the Group with major customers, shareholders and industry organisations.
Senior Independent Director David Richardson was appointed to the role of Senior Independent Director in January 2011.
As part of this role, David is available to shareholders if they have any issues or wish to discuss any aspects of the Companys business without the Executive Directors or Chairman present.
Additionally, in accordance with the provisions of the Code, David is available to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to act as an intermediary for non-executive directors when necessary.
Following Davids retirement from the Board at the end of the Companys 2013 Annual General Meeting, Malcolm Wyman will succeed David as Senior Independent Director with the same role and responsibilities.
86 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012
