Section 4 | Governance Corporate Governance Report Reserved and delegated authorities There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
This schedule, which is reviewed annually, includes approval of: Group strategy Annual financial and operating plans Major capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments Annual and half-year financial results Satisfying itself as to the integrity of financial information Dividend policy Ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board and senior management and appointing and removing Directors, the Company Secretary and Committee members Treasury policy Review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management process Training and development of the Board and the Company Secretary.
Other specic responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees which operate within clearly dened terms of reference.
Details of the responsibilities delegated to the Committees are given on pages 88 to 90.
Each Committee has an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group.
Information ow Senior executives below Board level attend certain Board meetings at which they make presentations on the results and strategies of their divisional units and functional areas of the Group.
Board members are given appropriate documents in advance of each Board meeting and each Committee meeting, as appropriate.
Board meetings are scheduled six times a year, four over two days at a time, and two meetings held for one day each.
Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion of the strategy, trading and financial performance and risk management of the Group.
Board and Committee meetings are held at varying locations and the opportunity is used to combine the formal business of the Board with site visits and divisional presentations and discussions.
Additional Board meetings are scheduled as required.
The attendance of individual Directors at Board meetings held during the year is shown in the table on page 87.
Company Secretary and independent advice The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters, ensuring that all Board procedures are followed and there are good information ows, together with facilitating induction programmes for newly appointed Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Board has approved a procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separately held and the division of their responsibilities is clearly established, set out in writing, and agreed by the Board.
As Chairman, Alastair Lyons is responsible for: Ensuring the effective operation of the Board, its agenda and processes Promoting the highest standards of corporate governance and ensuring appropriate communication with shareholders on the Groups overall performance Ensuring appropriate Director training and development takes place Board succession planning.
The Chief Executive, Christopher Hyman, is responsible for: The formation and implementation of the Groups global strategy Delivery of the Groups business plan Providing motivation and leadership to the operating divisions, chairing the Executive Committee and setting its style and tone Setting the overall policy and direction of Sercos business operations, investments and other activities within a framework of prudent and effective risk management and ensuring that divisions and functions control those risks satisfactorily Providing leadership and representation of the Group with major customers, shareholders and industry organisations.
Senior Independent Director David Richardson was appointed to the role of Senior Independent Director in January 2011.
As part of this role, David is available to shareholders if they have any issues or wish to discuss any aspects of the Companys business without the Executive Directors or Chairman present.
Additionally, in accordance with the provisions of the Code, David is available to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to act as an intermediary for non-executive directors when necessary.
Following Davids retirement from the Board at the end of the Companys 2013 Annual General Meeting, Malcolm Wyman will succeed David as Senior Independent Director with the same role and responsibilities.
86 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 External directorships for Executive Directors The Board considers that Executive Directors can gain valuable experience and knowledge through appropriate and limited non-executive appointments in other listed companies or independent sector organisations.
The Board is careful to ensure that any such appointments do not compromise the effective management of the Group and that these are approved in advance of any appointments being taken up.
Details of the fees received by Executive Directors for external appointments can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 103. significant other commitments of the Chairman Alastair Lyons is non-executive Chairman of Admiral Group plc and of the Towergate Insurance Group, Deputy Chairman of Bovis Homes Group PLC, and Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee Chair of Phoenix Group Holdings.
The Board believes that Alastair holds a balanced portfolio of positions which allow him to perform his duties as Chairman appropriately.
Re-election of Directors The Companys Articles of Association stipulate that each Director shall retire but be eligible for re-election at the annual general meeting held in the third calendar year following the year in which he or she was elected or last re-elected by the Company.
Any Directors appointed by the Board since the last annual general meeting must stand for re-election at the next annual general meeting.
Any Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, who have served for more than nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
Notwithstanding the above, in accordance with provisions contained within the Code, all Directors retired and stood for re-election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting and will do so on an annual basis at each Annual General Meeting.
Their names are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Non-Executive Directors Independence All the Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and have no cross-directorships or significant links which could materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
Term of appointment All Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
Thereafter, subject to satisfactory performance, they may serve one or two additional three-year terms.
The terms and conditions of the appointment of the Directors are summarised in the Remuneration Report on pages 98 and 106 and are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Meetings of Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors meet separately without the Chairman or Executive Directors being present at least once a year principally to appraise the Chairmans performance.
This meeting is chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
Board meetings and attendance Board meetings were held on a bi-monthly basis with ad hoc meetings in between as required.
The frequency and content of Board meetings are reviewed by the Board annually.
The attendance of the individual Directors at Board and Committee meetings of which they were members during 2012 was as follows: Executive Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination 8 meetings 3 meetings 8 meetings 3 meetings Alastair Lyons 8 n a 8 3 Christopher Hyman 8 n a n a 3 Andrew Jenner 8 n a n a n a Leonard V. Broese van Groenou 3 3 1 1 5 5 n a David Richardson 8 3 8 3 Angie Risley 8 2 2 8 3 Ralph D. Crosby Jr 8 n a n a n a Notes: 1. n a means that the specified Director is not a member of that Committee, although he or she may attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
Where a number is given in brackets against a Directors attendance, this is the number of meetings which took place during their tenure.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 87 Financial Governance statements Section 4 | Governance Corporate Governance Report Board effectiveness Induction On joining the Board, Directors are given background information describing the Company and its activities.
They receive an induction pack which includes information on all the governance processes of the Group, the roles and responsibilities of the Board, Committees and other management teams and a range of other appropriate information about the Group, its activities and its advisors.
Meetings are also arranged with a range of relevant senior managers from across the Group on a structured basis to assist with a Directors induction.
Visits are also arranged, where possible, to a number of contracts.
An induction programme for Malcolm Wyman, who joined the Board on 1 January 2013, is already underway and includes site visits and meetings with senior executives of, and advisers to, the Group.
The Chairman continues to undertake an extensive programme of contract visits.
Continued professional development The Board considers the training needs of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors plus the Company Secretary.
All Board members are encouraged to attend relevant training courses at the Companys expense.
The development needs of the Directors and the Company Secretary fall within the remit of the Chairman who reviews and agrees these individually.
Performance evaluation The Group recognises the importance of a comprehensive evaluation process for the Board and the Chairman ensures that comments and recommendations are considered carefully and implemented where appropriate to ensure its continued development.
In 2011, the Board commissioned an external review completed by an independent consultant.
The Board intends to comply with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and carry out such an external evaluation at least once every three years.
In 2012, an internal evaluation of the Board and Committees was undertaken, which consisted of each Director completing a detailed questionnaire, followed by an interview with the Chairman.
A presentation to the Board was given of the results of the evaluation.
The evaluation concluded that the Board operates effectively under strong leadership from the Chairman and makes good use of the individual competencies of the Boards membership.
The Board is felt to have a strong understanding of the views of major investors and stakeholders and a good understanding of the markets in which the business operates.
Changes to some of the reports presented to the Board in response to previous evaluation feedback had been very well received and there is felt to be a good and transparent relationship between Non-Executive Directors and senior management.
The Board was felt to be effective at managing risk and to have an appropriately conservative attitude to risk whilst equally being prepared to take well considered and appropriately evaluated material risk judgements.
The Committee structure and effectiveness were also highly rated.
It was acknowledged that the prole of the Board would be enhanced through greater diversity, both of expertise in areas such as brand and marketing as well as experience of new geographical markets under consideration by the Group.
Whilst the Board recognised the importance of well developed succession plans, it acknowledged that there should be continued focus on emerging talent as succession to key senior management roles.
These, along with more administrative recommendations, have been given due consideration by the Board and actions for each have been agreed accordingly.
In addition an evaluation of the Chairmans performance led by the Senior Independent Director taking into account the views of both the Non-Executive and Executive Directors was carried out during the year.
It is considered that the Chairman continues to provide strong leadership of the Board, and there is a good level of trust between him and the Chief Executive.
The Chairmans commitment to contract and site visits and the value derived from these by the business was also acknowledged.
His very well informed view of the Groups operations also enables him to provide a strong sounding board for the Executive Directors.
Board committees The Board has delegated authority to a number of permanent Committees to deal with matters in accordance with written terms of reference.
The terms of reference for all Committees are reviewed on a regular basis by the Board to ensure they are still appropriate and reect any changes in good practice and governance: these are available online at www.
Committees are authorised to obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice if they consider it necessary.
The Audit Committee and Audit Committee Report Membership: The Audit Committee consists solely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
It is comprised of David Richardson, who Chairs the Committee, and Angie Risley, who replaced Leonard V. Broese van Groenou when he retired from the Board and Committees on 14 May 2012.
Following the sad and untimely passing of Paul Brooks in January 2012, membership of the Committee was reduced below the level required by the Code.
The Board considered it appropriate to pend increasing membership of the Committee until a new non-executive director, with the right balance of skills, is appointed to the Board.
The Company Chairman, who is himself a qualied accountant and a listed Audit Committee Chairman, attended all meetings in the year and the Board considers that appropriate representation was maintained as a consequence.
Malcolm Wyman, who joined the Committee on his appointment to the Board on 1 January 2013, will take over as Chairman of the Committee on the retirement of David Richardson at the close of the Companys 2013 Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman of the Committee has recent and relevant experience for this role.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Finance Director, the Group Head of Internal Audit, KPMG LLP the Groups internal audit providers, and Deloitte LLP the external auditors attend meetings.
The Committee meets with each of the internal audit providers, external auditors and the Group Head of Internal Audit separately at least once a year.
All Directors have access to the minutes of the Audit Committee meetings.
88 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Responsibilities: The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, including interim management statements, and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them To monitor and review the internal audit programme and ensure that the internal audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing with the Company To review managements and the internal auditors reports on the effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management To consider the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors and assess independence and objectivity of the external auditors, ensuring that key partners are rotated at appropriate intervals and relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements are taken into account To recommend the audit fee to the Board and pre-approve any fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditors and to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity To discuss with the external auditors, before the audit commences, the nature and scope of the audit and to review the auditors quality control procedures and steps taken by the auditors to respond to changes in regulatory and other requirements To oversee the process for selecting the external auditors and make appropriate recommendations through the Board to the shareholders to consider at the annual general meeting To review the Companys procedures for detecting fraud and its systems and controls for the prevention of bribery and receive reports on non-compliance.
Additionally, in accordance with the Code, the Committee is responsible for a formal whistle-blowing policy and procedure which applies throughout the Group.
Responsibility for the operation of this policy has been delegated to the Company Secretary.
Members of the Audit Committee have received updates on accounting standards and generally accepted accounting practice on a quarterly basis as part of the Finance Directors report to the Board, and also on a half-yearly basis from the external auditors.
During 2012 the Audit Committee discharged fully its responsibilities listed above and, in doing so, considered the following: Corporate Governance Report and statement of Directors Responsibilities for inclusion in the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Half Year Report and Auditors report thereon 2012 external audit fees Review of the whistle-blowing process and significant reports from that process Evaluation of the Audit Committee and the achievement of its Terms of Reference 2012 internal audit programme and the proposed 2013 programme The continuing independence of the external auditors.
In considering the Financial Statements for the year ending 31 December 2012, the Committee discussed with the auditors and management all areas of risk it identied during both the audit planning process and year end audit.
In the Committees judgement these areas are usual for a company of Sercos size and business model.
A small, but significant, number of Sercos contracts are Long Term Contracts for accounting purposes and calculations around Revenue and profit recognition require management judgement.
We have considered carefully the judgements made and their impact on all aspects of the financial statements.
We have had detailed input from management on the forecasts and validity of the estimates made historically and have discussed and reviewed these with the auditors at our meetings.
profit Before Tax PBT in 2012 includes an exceptional gain which arises on the step purchase of a former Joint Venture.
We have confirmed that the accounting for this acquisition is in accordance with the accounting standards.
Goodwill is a significant asset for the Group.
It is supported for accounting purposes by managements cash ow forecasts at agreed cash generating unit level.
We carefully considered the reasonableness of these forecasts.
Finally, cash accounting, pension provisions, charges for taxation, and accounting for acquisitions and disposals are all major items which we consider in detail in order to satisfy ourselves that the financial statements are reasonable.
We satisfied ourselves, as required, that Serco is a Going Concern.
Non-audit services: The Committee has reconrmed its policy on the provision of audit and non-audit services by Deloitte LLP.
It determined three categories of services: Approved e. g. audit and related assurance services, Permitted e. g. tax compliance and due diligence and Not Permitted e. g. design implementation of financial information systems and quasi management services.
The Committee, the Company, and Deloitte LLP all monitor compliance with the policy and review at each meeting the fees earned and the estimates for the year.
The Committee acknowledges that the Groups external audit rm will have a significant understanding of the Groups business and this knowledge and experience can be utilised to the Groups advantage in many areas thus ensuring efficiency in costs to the Group.
They also operate to professional codes of conduct including the management of conicts of interest.
Accordingly, it considers that the external auditors may be engaged for the following non-audit services: a assistance in tax compliance activities including the preparation of tax returns b tax advisory services c accountants reports for any Stock Exchange purposes d ad hoc reporting on historic financial information for any other purpose and ad hoc accounting advisory services e due diligence activities associated with potential acquisitions or disposals of businesses Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 89 Financial Governance statements Section 4 | Governance Corporate Governance Report f other corporate finance advisory services required in support of potential transactions or bids including the review of financial models for internal consistency and compliance with Group financial accounting policies, and g any other services which are not prohibited and are authorised by the Finance Director or Group Company Secretary.
Where such services are considered to be recurring in nature, approval of the Committee may be sought for the full financial year at the beginning of that year.
Approval for other permitted non-audit services has to be sought on an ad hoc basis: where no Audit Committee meeting is scheduled within an appropriate time frame approval is to be sought from the Chairman of the Committee or his nominated alternate.
The Committee may establish fee thresholds for pre-approved services and similar approvals are required for work awarded to accounting rms other than the Companys auditors where fees are expected to exceed pre-approved limits.
The Group Company Secretary is nominated by the Audit Committee as the point of review and approval for the engagement of non-audit services.
The Group has complied with the policy throughout the year.
Where appropriate, non-audit services have been provided by companies other than Deloitte LLP to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence.
The fees paid to Deloitte LLP for audit, audit-related and non-audit services for 2012 can be found in note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The principal areas of engagement of Deloitte LLP for audit-related and non-audit services were commissioned in full compliance with the above policy and a formal tender exercise was undertaken where appropriate.
The services principally related to taxation advice, IT advisory work and due diligence and other corporate finance advisory services.
Auditors independence: The independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditor have been examined by the Committee and discussions were held regarding their terms of engagement and remuneration.
The Senior Statutory Auditor is Richard Knights who was appointed to the role at the beginning of 2011.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys current choice of external auditor and consideration was given to the merits of appointing an alternative external audit rm.
Following an assessment of the relative strengths and weaknesses of an alternative provider against the continued engagement of the incumbent provider, the Committee recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be proposed for reappointment at the forthcoming 2013 Annual General Meeting.
This recommendation has been accepted and will be proposed to shareholders.
The Committee further noted the requirement within the FRCs September 2012 Guidance on Audit Committees, applying to the Companys next reporting period, requiring FTSE350 companies to put their external audit services out to tender at least once in every ten years.
The Nomination Committee Membership: The Nomination Committee is chaired by Alastair Lyons and throughout 2012 comprised David Richardson, Angie Risley and Christopher Hyman.
The Committee met three times during 2012.
Malcolm Wyman joined the Committee in his appointment to the Board on 1 January 2013.
Responsibilities: Matters considered during the year included succession and contingency planning, Board structure and composition and the recruitment of a successor to David Richardson as Chair of Audit.
The Committee has responsibility for the identication and nomination of candidates to ll Board vacancies as and when they arise, engaging external search consultants as and when necessary.
Approval of appointment is a responsibility of the Board.
The Nomination Committee has engaged the Zygos Partnership, an independent external executive search consultancy, for the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors.
The Board confirms the Zygos Partnership is not connected with the Company in any way.
In consultation with the chosen search consultants, specications are drawn up for the roles and attributes that are felt to be essential for the effective performance of any new Non-Executive Director, including what would be considered acceptable in terms of time commitment.
The Remuneration Committee Details of the Remuneration Committee and its policies together with the Directors remuneration, emoluments and interests in the Companys share capital are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 98 to 114.
Executive Committees Throughout 2012, an Executive Committee has operated which is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises eight other members, including the Group Finance Director, Regional Chief Executives and other selected Corporate function heads.
The Committee has delegated responsibility from the Board to ensure the effective direction and control of the business and to deliver the Groups long-term strategy and goals.
The Committee met nine times during the year to review the Groups activities and discuss management and operational issues.
Representatives from across the Serco business were invited to the meetings, as appropriate, to discuss aspects of their business or give presentations on specic topics.
Relationship with shareholders The Companys relationship with shareholders is given a high priority.
The Annual Report and Accounts is available to all shareholders both in hard copy and online at www.
We no longer produce a printed report of our half-year results.
Instead, a letter summarising those results is issued to shareholders and a copy of the full stock exchange announcement is available on request.
Regular trading updates are published ahead of close periods and before the annual general meeting by press release.
In addition, press releases and stock exchange announcements are made regarding significant contracts or transactions.
All trading announcements are also posted on the Groups website www.
90 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual General Meeting Individual shareholders have the opportunity at the annual general meeting AGM to question the Chairman and, through him, the Chairs of the various Board Committees and other Directors.
Details of the meeting are set out in the notice of AGM which is sent to shareholders and which contains the text of the resolutions to be proposed and explanatory notes.
Shareholders attending the AGM are invited to vote by means of a poll.
A poll reects the number of voting rights exercisable by each member and is considered by the Board to be a more democratic method of voting.
Shareholders are advised of the total number of votes lodged for each resolution, in the categories for and against together with the number of votes withheld.
This information is also posted on the Groups website www.
Institutional investors The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular dialogue with institutional investors.
The Chairman also each year offers to meet with the Companys largest institutional investors.
The Companys investor relations programme and day-to-day activities are managed by the Head of Investor Relations.
As part of the role of Senior Independent Director, David Richardson is also available to meet shareholders, should it be required.
The Board receives an investor relations report on a quarterly basis.
This reviews share price movements and valuation, changes in the share register, the Companys recent and planned investor relations activities, communication with shareholders, analyst recommendations and significant news from the market and specically the support services sector.
The report ensures that the Board has a clear understanding of the Companys investor relations performance and enables all directors to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
Group website The Group website www.
com is a primary source of information on the Group.
The site includes an area tailored for investors, including information such as an archive of all reports, announcements, presentations and webcasts, share price tools, the terms of reference for all Board Committees, the Corporate Responsibility Report, and information on voting at the annual general meeting.
It also has a link directly to the Companys registrars, allowing shareholders to view their shareholding online and to vote on the resolutions set out in the notice of annual general meeting.
Business conduct Serco Group operates within a Management System that defines the policies, standards and processes to be applied wherever we operate.
Integral to this is our policy on Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all business divisions, operating companies and business units throughout the world.
This policy outlines the Groups position on a wide range of ethical and legal issues including conicts of interest, financial inducements, human rights and legal and regulatory compliance.
It applies to Directors and to all employees regardless of their position or location.
Recognising that ethical dilemmas may arise in a growing company the Group has an Ethics Consultation Process that is to be followed to determine the Groups position on particular issues.
To support this process an Investment and Ethics Committee, comprising members of the Executive Team with a quorum of three and chaired by the Chief of Staff, meets as required.
As the leadership of the Company, the Executive Team will make judgements about what it considers acceptable.
Sercos outsourced Ethics Hotline operated throughout the year, which enabled employees to report any concerns, or report any wrongdoing, that they did not feel able to raise with their line manager, human resources colleagues or through other reporting channels.
In addition to the Hotline, which is available toll-free worldwide in several languages, employees can also make reports via email or the internet.
The Company Secretary investigates independently any issues raised and reports back to the Audit Committee and, as required, the Board.
The Group maintains a position of impartiality with respect to party politics.
Accordingly, it does not contribute funds to any political party.
It does, however, contribute to the public debate of policy issues that may affect it in the countries in which it operates.
Internal control and risk management Further to the comments above regarding Governance, details of the Groups internal control and risk management processes are contained in pages 78 to 84 of the Our performance section.
The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary have been taken to remedy any failings and weaknesses which it has determined to be significant from its review of the Groups internal controls and risk management processes.
Going concern The Directors have acknowledged the guidance Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 and An update for Directors of Listed Companies: Responding to increased country and currency risk in financial reports, published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009 and January 2012 respectively.
This is discussed in the Finance Review starting on page 58.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: John Hickey Secretary 4 March 2013 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 91 Financial Governance statements
