Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 50 Governance Nominations Committee This report provides details of the role of the Nominations Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The Committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the board and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of the directors.
It also reviews their external interests with a view to identifying any actual, perceived or potential conicts of interests, including the time available to commit to their duties to the company.
The Committee monitors the independence of each non-executive director and makes recommendations concerning such to the board.
The results of these reviews are important when the board considers succession planning and the election and reappointment of directors.
Members of the Committee take no part in any discussions concerning their own circumstances.
Andrew Duff The members of the Committee in 2011 12 were the non-executive directors of the Chairman of the Nominations Committee board and the Chief Executive, Tony Wray.
During the year the Committee reviewed the procedure for reporting and authorising, The main purpose of the Committee as appropriate, any actual or potential conicts of interests, in accordance with the isto assist the board by keeping the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. composition of the board under review During the year the Committee reviewed succession planning below board level.
and conducting a rigorous and TheCommittee considered in detail the appointment of Martin Kane as the new transparent process when making or ChiefExecutive officer for Severn Trent Services, following the retirement of Len renewing appointments of directors to Graziano.
TheCommittee has also considered the consequential appointment of the board.
It also advises the board on Angela Hunter-Dobson as the new Customer Relations Director to succeed Martin.
issues of directors conicts of interest Angela will be a member of the Executive Committee and not amember of the board.
The full terms of In accordance with the requirements of the Governance Code, all members of the reference for the Committee can be board will seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting in July2012.
In March found on the companys website thisyear the Committee formally reviewed the performance, contribution and www.
com and are also commitment of each of the directors retiring at this years AGM and seeking available from the Company Secretary.
reappointment and supported and recommended their reappointment to theboard.
The Committee has confirmed that each director continues to perform wellon anindividual and collective basis, making a valuable contribution to the boards deliberations and demonstrating commitment to the long term interests of thecompany.
Nominations Committee attendancein2011 12 Dr Bernard Bulkin 4 4 Martin Lamb 4 4 Richard Davey 3 4 Baroness Noakes 4 4 Andrew Duff 4 4 Tony Wray 4 4 Gordon Fryett 4 4 Each Committee meeting complied with the terms of reference in that a minimum ofve members were in attendance, with the majority being independent, non-executive directors.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51 Governance Nominations Committee Diversity Succession planning Further to the publication of the Davies Report, Women on Boards, in February 2011, When considering new appointments boards of FTSE 350s have been encouraged to promote greater female representation to the board, the Committee oversees on corporate boards.
Guidance from the Financial Reporting Council has also the preparation of a role specication highlighted the importance of greater diversity of psychological prole around that is provided to an independent theboard table.
recruitment organisation retained to Severn Trent believes that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key factor in being a conduct a global search.
In addition to successful business.
Severn Trent Plc shares the aspiration of the Davies Report to the specic skills, knowledge and promote greater female representation on listed company boards.
experience deemed necessary, the As and when board appointment opportunities arise, recognising the relatively short specication contains criteria such as: tenure of current directors, we will make full use of the procedures recommended by a proven track record of creating the Davies Report and by the Governance Code to support this aspiration.
All board shareholder value: appointments will be based on merit and must be in the interests of all stakeholders.
unquestioned integrity and a diversity As at 31 March 2012 we had one female member on our board of 11 representing of psychological mindset: 9% and two female members out of 11 on the Executive Committee representing a commitment to the highest 18%.
As at the date of this report, and following the recent appointment of Angela standards of governance: Hunter-Dobson, there are three female members of the Executive Committee having the required time available representing 27%.
The total workforce gender split is 30% female and 70%male.
todevote to the job: As reported on page 17, we have conducted gender diversity research with strategic mindset, an awareness of womenemployees in Severn Trent Water to understand what is important to them market leadership, outstanding indeveloping careers at Severn Trent.
We plan to use the same methodology to monitoring skills: explore ethnic diversity in the near future, so we can gain more insights into this aspectof our workforce composition and the findings will be examined by our a preparedness to question, challenge DiversityWorking Group.
and openly assess: and an independent point of view.
Gender diversity Board Executive Committee Total workforce 9% 27% 30% 70% 91% 73% Male Female Andrew Duff Chairman of the Nominations Committee
