Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 52 Governance Audit Committee This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The members of the Committee are Baroness Noakes DBE Chairman, DrBernard Bulkin and Richard Davey whose experience and background are set out on pages 42 and 43.
The board is satisfied that Baroness Noakes and Richard Davey have recent and relevant financial experience and that all members of the Committee remain independent.
The members of the Committee receive updates in financial reporting and the groups regulatory framework in various forms throughout the year.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Director of Internal Audit, the Group Financial Controller and the external auditors normally attend, by invitation, all meetings of the Baroness Noakes DBE Committee.
Other members of senior management are also invited to attend as Chairman of the Audit Committee appropriate.
In performing its duties, the Committee has access to the services of the Director of Internal Audit, the Company Secretary and external professional advisers.
The Committee assists the board in The Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the board on the discharging its responsibilities for the Committeeswork.
integrity of the companys financial The Committee met four times in 2011 12 and our work focused on four key areas: statements, the assessment of the financial statements and accounting policies: effectiveness of the systems of internal controls: internalcontrols and monitoring the effectiveness and objectivity of the oversight of internal and external audit: and internal and external auditors.
The role the regulatory reporting obligations of our subsidiary Severn Trent Water Limited.
and the responsibilities of the Committee are set out in written terms of reference.
Financial statements and accounting policies These can be found on the companys Reviewing the financial statements and accounting policies requires an examination of website www.
com material judgements made in preparing the financial statements.
We set out below andare also available from the some of the key issues we discussed in respect of 2011 12: Company Secretary.
a provision of 21.5 million in exceptional charges, for the potential non recovery of our economic interest in an Operating Services business in Italy: the value of goodwill including impairments of 22.9 million to the goodwill in respect of three Severn Trent Services businesses: and the groups accounting policy for exceptional items and the criteria to determine when items would be classied as exceptional.
In reviewing the financial statements, we receive input from the Disclosure Committee and Deloitte LLP Deloitte.
The former is chaired by the Finance Director and considers the content, accuracy and tone of the financial statements, the Ofwat Annual Return and other public disclosures prior to their release.
Deloitte reported to the Committee on their review of the half year interim results and on their audit of the year end financial statements.
Internal controls We receive regular reports from Internal Audit in respect of their work on internal controls and we review management letters received from the external auditors.
We reviewed the processes for and outputs from our enterprise risk management process, through which the principal risks and related controls are identied.
In addition, we monitored the ongoing development of our compliance and assurance processes in respect of the key risks.
The Committee in particular reviewed the systems and processes designed to prevent fraud and bribery.
The Committee also receives a regular log of incidents of fraud or bribery which includes the actions taken to investigate and respond to the incidents.
There were no material incidents during the year.
Further details of our Internal Control Framework, including the main features of our internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process, can be found in the Directors report on page 71.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53 Governance Audit Committee Oversight of Internal Audit and external audit Policy on the provision of We are responsible for overseeing the work of the Internal Audit function and also non-auditservices formanaging the relationship with the groups external auditors.
We review the The company has approved a formal performance of the internal and external auditors annually to ensure that they are policy on the provision of non-audit effective and recommend to the board whether the external auditors should be services aimed at safeguarding and reappointed.
supporting the independence and The Committee regularly holds discussions with both the internal and external objectivity of the external auditors.
auditors in the absence of management.
The policy sets out the approach to be taken by the group when using the Internal Audit services of the external auditors, The Director of Internal Audit and his Internal Audit team report on a day to day basis including requiring that certain services to management on the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal controls and provided by the external auditors are the adequacy of these systems to manage business risk and to safeguard the groups pre-approved by the Audit Committee assets and resources.
This work is summarised and reported to the Committee on a or its Chairman.
regular basis and is a key element of the assurance that the Committee receives on the risks and controls in the group.
It distinguishes between those services where an independent view is required The plans, the level of resources and the budget of the Internal Audit function are and that should be performed by the reviewed at least annually by the Committee.
The Director of Internal Audit is free to external auditors such as statutory raise any issues with the Committee or its Chairman at any time during the year.
andnon-statutory audit and assurance External auditors work, prohibited services where the independence of the external auditors Deloitte was appointed auditors of the company in 2005.
The Committee reviews could be threatened and they must theauditors effectiveness each year prior to recommending to the board that they notbe used, and other non-audit beproposed for reappointment at the AGM.
Deloitte audit all significant subsidiaries services where the external auditors ofthe group.
Annually, the Committee reviews information provided by the external auditors Non-audit services where the external conrming their independence and objectivity within the context of applicable auditors may be used include: regulatory requirements and professional standards.
The company does not have a non-recurring internal controls and risk policy of tendering the external audit at specic intervals but would initiate a tender management reviews excluding process if there were any concerns about the quality of the audit or the independence outsourcing of internal audit work, and objectivity of the auditors.
There are no contractual obligations that act to restrict advice on financial reporting and the Committees choice of external auditors.
regulatory matters, due diligence on Details of the amounts paid to Deloitte for audit and non-audit services are provided in acquisitions and disposals, project note 7 to the accounts page 91. assurance and advice, tax compliance services, and employee tax services.
Severn Trent Water Limited The regulated activities carried out by Severn Trent Water Limited result in two other The approval of the Audit Committee or reporting requirements to Ofwat and these are also covered by the Committee: an its Chairman is always required if a annual return on Severn Trent Water Limiteds regulatory obligations, known as the non-audit service provided by the Ofwat Annual Return: and a statement that underpins the customer charges made by auditors is expected to cost more than Severn Trent Water Limited, known as the Principal Statement.
100,000 or if non-audit fees for the year would thereby exceed the amount In March 2012 the Committee discussed the assurance framework in place for the of the audit fee.
new Ofwat Annual Return process.
Deloitte makes reports to Ofwat in respect of Severn Trent Waters regulatory accounts.
The Ofwat Annual Return covers many aspects which are not financial and Severn Trent Water Limited appoints engineering consultants, Atkins, to report on those aspects.
The Committee receives reports from Deloitte and Atkins on their work as partof its review of thereturns.
Audit Committee attendance in2011 12 Baroness Noakes 4 4 Richard Davey 3 4 Dr Bernard Bulkin 4 4 The performance of the Committee was included in the external review of the board referred to on page 47.
No matters requiring action by the Committee arose from thatreview.
