RYHUQDQFH Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance The table below details the number of formal Board meetings &RUSRUDWH RYHUQDQFH VWDWHPHQW held in the year and the attendance record of each director.
The Board fully supports the principles of good corporate governance.
This statement, together with the Remuneration Director Board meetings Report on pages 75 to 80, explains how the Group has applied Adrian Auer Chairman 13 13 the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code in force for the year to 31 March 2012 and also with the provisions of Peter Dilnot 4 4 the Disclosure and Transparency Rules on Audit Committees Tom Drury 5 5 and Corporate Governance Statements DTR7.
The Board Peter Johnson 12 13 considers that it has complied with Section 1 of the Governance Code and DTR7 throughout the year with the single exception Jacques Petry 12 13 of Code Provision B.
7.1 relating to the annual re-election of all Stephen Riley 12 13 directors.
The Boards rationale for this was set out in last years Annual Report and Accounts and is explained again in the Chris Surch 13 13 Nomination Committee section on page 71.
Eric van Amerongen 13 13 Bracketed figures indicate maximum potential attendance of each director.
Three of these meetings were held by telephone conference.
7KH %RDUG The Board comprises the Chairman, a further four independent non-executive directors, the Group Chief Executive and Group %RDUG LQGXFWLRQ DQG SURIHVVLRQDO GHYHORSPHQW Finance Director.
The only change to the Board during the year On appointment, directors are given an introduction to the was the resignation of Tom Drury as Group Chief Executive Groups operations, including visits to principal sites and on 30 September 2011 and the subsequent appointment of meetings with operational management.
As part of a planned Peter Dilnot to this position on 1 February 2012.
The Chairman, induction programme in February 2012, during the first month who has been independent since his original appointment, has of his appointment, Peter Dilnot visited some 25 sites across primary responsibility for running the Board.
The Group Chief the Group, met with senior and operational managers and Executive is responsible for the operations of the Group and worked alongside staff on picking lines and on collections.
for the development of strategic plans and initiatives for consideration by the Board.
The formal division of Specific training requirements of directors are met either directly responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief or by the Company through legal regulatory updates.
NonExecutive has been agreed by the Board and documented, a executive directors also have access to  copy of which is available on the Groups website.
During the non-executive database and course programme.
There is a period from 30 September 2011 to 1 February 2012, Chris rolling programme of holding Board meetings at various Group Surch undertook the role of Acting Group Chief Executive in locations in order to review local operations and make site visits.
addition to his existing duties of Group Finance Director.
In the year under review the Board visited facilities in Nieuwegen Netherlands, Ghent Belgium and Elstow UK.
The non-executive directors bring a wide range of experience to the Group and are considered by the Board to be independent In September 2011 as part of their practical commitment to of management and free from any business or other relationship reinvigorating the safety culture throughout the Group the Board which could materially interfere with the exercise of their attended a Safety Leadership presentation training session independent judgement.
The non-executive directors make a given by the UK Safety, Health and Environment Department.
significant contribution to the functioning of the Board, thereby The presentation was followed by a site visit of the Elstow waste ensuring that no one individual or group dominates the decision facility, focusing on health and safety.
One of the purposes of making process.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to the training, which was also provided to senior managers participate in any of the Companys share option or pension throughout the Group, was that of confirming the key essential schemes.
The Chairman also meets and communicates health and safety standards applicable across all of the Groups regularly with the other non-executive directors without the activities.
This is now being taken forward by the Health & Safety presence of the executive directors.
Committee reporting into the Group Executive Committee.
Eric van Amerongen continues to hold the position of Senior Independent Director, being available to shareholders should they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 RYHUQDQFH Corporate Governance %DODQFH RI QRQ H[HFXWLYH GLUHFWRUV The work of the Board is further supported by %RDUG JRYHUQDQFH DQG H[HFXWLYH GLUHFWRUV three formal Committees Audit, Remuneration There is a formal schedule of matters reserved and Nomination, detailed on the following a specifically for the Boards decision.
In addition, whilst not a Committee with Chairman 1 include approval of financial statements, b b Executive specific powers of its own delegated by the strategic policy, acquisitions and disposals, directors 2 Board, the Group Chief Executive is assisted capital projects over defined limits, annual c Independent in the performance of his duties by a Group non-executive plans and new borrowing facilities.
The Board directors 4 Executive Committee, which meets monthly meets regularly, having met ten times during c and whose permanent members include the the year, with a further three meetings being Group Finance Director and the Managing held by telephone conference.
In addition, Directors of the Netherlands, Belgium, the UK the Board held an annual strategy conference and since May 2012 the Managing Director of with senior management in attendance.
HQJWK RI WHQXUH RI &KDLUPDQ Orgaworld.
In addition there are three specialist QRQ H[HFXWLYH GLUHFWRUV At each main meeting, following a review of committees reporting through to the Group Executive Committee: Risk, Corporate the minutes of the previous meeting and a a 02 years 1 Responsibility and Health & Safety.
any actions arising the first standing item b 36 years 2 of business for consideration by the Board c 7 years 2 b is the Safety, Health and Environmental report.
%RDUG HYDOXDWLRQ Other regular reports include those from the c Performance evaluation of the Board, its Group Chief Executive covering business Committees and directors during the year performance, markets and competition, investor and analyst updates as well as was based upon formalised self assessment questionnaires supplemented by structured progress against strategic objectives and interviews conducted by the Chairman with capital expenditure projects.
QGXVWU EDFNJURXQG H[SHULHQFH RI individual directors.
The performance evaluation &KDLUPDQ QRQ H[HFXWLYH GLUHFWRUV The Group Finance Director presents a monthly of the Chairman was undertaken by the nonreport on trading results, key metrics and a a Building executive directors, led by the Senior Independent performance indicators whilst one of the materials Director.
Following this years performance e chemical 1 purposes of the regular Company Secretarys b evaluation the Board recommends to shareholders b Construction report is to ensure that the Board are kept up financial the election and re-election of those directors services 1 to date on governance matters generally.
standing at the forthcoming AGM, all of whom c Electricity 1 d c continue to demonstrate commitment to their role d Water waste 1 The Board is provided with appropriate e Telecom and whose performance continues to be effective.
information in a timely manner to enable it to defence effectively discharge its duties.
All directors publishing 1 The Board recognise that a continuous and have access to the Company Secretary constructively critical evaluation of their whose role includes ensuring that Board performance is an important factor in unlocking procedures and regulations are followed.
the full potential of the Group.
A number of In addition, directors are entitled, if necessary, topics were also identified for the Board to to seek independent professional advice in focus further attention on in 2012. the furtherance of their duties at the As a consequence of the change of Group Chief Companys expense.
Executive during the year and Peter Dilnots All directors are required to notify the Company appointment date being just two months from on an ongoing basis of any other commitments the financial year end, the Board determined to and through the Company Secretary there are defer the planned external evaluation to 2012 13 procedures for ensuring that the Boards to allow a sufficient passage of time in order powers for authorising directors conflicts of to reflect a more informed assessment of the interest are operated effectively.
contribution of the new Group Chief Executive and his interaction with other Board members.
The calendar of meetings of the Board and its committees for 2011 12 is shown below: April May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb March Board main meeting Board conference call Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Strategy meeting Shareholder AGM RYHUQDQFH Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 As previously reported, following discussion of the 1RPLQDWLRQ &RPPLWWHH recommendations of the Lord Davies report on Board Room The Nomination Committee is chaired by Adrian Auer and is Diversity, whilst the Committee at the current time has not comprised solely of non-executive directors: Eric van Amerongen, determined to set a specific female Board member quota, Peter Johnson, Stephen Riley and Jacques Petry.
The Committee appointments to the Board and throughout the Group will is formally constituted with written terms of reference which continue to be based on the diversity of contribution and are available on the Groups website.
It met on three occasions required competencies, irrespective of gender.
Statistical during the year and is responsible for making recommendations employment data for the Group can be found in the Shanks to the Board on the appointment of directors and succession Corporate Responsibility report available on the Group website.
It also reviews organisation and resourcing plans for the purpose of providing assurance that appropriate processes Director Nomination Committee meetings are in place to ensure a sufficient supply of competent executive Adrian Auer Chairman 3 3 and senior management.
Peter Johnson 3 3 During the year the Committee were engaged primarily in the Jacques Petry 3 3 selection of a new Group Chief Executive necessitated by the announcement in July 2011 of Tom Drurys decision to resign Stephen Riley 2 3 in the autumn of 2011.
Facilitated by an external recruitment Eric van Amerongen 3 3 consultancy a two phase process was undertaken including Bracketed figures indicate potential attendance of each director.
a preliminary mapping exercise, during which the candidate role was refined and developed.
This was followed by a comprehensive search for an individual with the requisite 5HPXQHUDWLRQ &RPPLWWHH competencies and a proven track record of growth and The Remuneration Committee, which met five times in the year, value creation within a highly capital intensive business.
is formally constituted with written terms of reference which are Candidates at both the long and short list stages of the available on the Groups website.
The Committee is comprised process were purposively drawn from a diverse population solely of non-executive directors: Eric van Amerongen, Adrian in terms of experience and nationality as well as gender.
Auer, Peter Johnson, Stephen Riley and Jacques Petry.
The Any new director appointed to the Board is subject to election Committee is chaired by Eric van Amerongen and determines by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment.
the Companys policy on remuneration and on a specific In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association package for each of the executive directors.
It also determines non-executive directors are also required to stand for re-election the terms on which the Long Term Incentive Plan and the on an annual basis.
Non-executive directors have previously Savings Related Share options are awarded to employees.
been appointed for renewable three year terms but for The Committee also determines the remuneration of the Groups consistency with their annual re-election requirements, letters senior management and that of the Chairman.
It recommends of re-appointment are now issued on the basis of renewable the remuneration of the non-executive directors for determination annual terms.
In exercising its responsibilities the Committee Both the executive directors have contractual notice periods of has access to professional advice, both internally and externally, one year and are required to stand for re-election every three and may consult the Group Chief Executive about its proposals.
The Board does not believe it is necessary to require The Remuneration Report on pages 75 to 80 contains executive directors to stand for annual re-election as the particulars of directors remuneration and their interests in Chairman and non-executives have an existing accountability the Companys shares.
to shareholders for ensuring executives perform effectively and Director Remuneration Committee meetings a responsibility if necessary to remove them from their post if they fail to do so.
However, in recognition of the UK Corporate Eric van Amerongen Chairman 5 5 Governance Code requirement for annual re-elections, the Adrian Auer 5 5 Board will review, on an annual basis, their position regarding applicability to the executive directors.
Peter Johnson 5 5 Jacques Petry 5 5 Stephen Riley 5 5 Bracketed figures indicate potential attendance of each director.
Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 RYHUQDQFH Corporate Governance $XGLW &RPPLWWHH [WHUQDO DXGLW The Audit Committee which met three times in the year is  LLP rotate their lead audit formally constituted with written terms of reference which are engagement partner as a minimum at least every five years, available on the Groups website.
The Committee is comprised as required by their own rules and by regulatory bodies.
solely of non-executive directors Peter Johnson, Stephen Riley, Rotation ensures a fresh look without sacrificing institutional Jacques Petry and Eric van Amerongen.
Rotation of key audit partners, other partners continues to have current and relevant financial experience including specialist partners and senior engagement personnel under UK Corporate Governance Code requirements, chaired is reviewed on a regular basis by the lead audit engagement the Committee throughout the year.
Representatives from the partner in consultation with the Audit Committee.
As well as external auditors  LLP, the Risk the lead audit partner being required to rotate every five years, Management and Internal Audit manager, the Chairman and key partners involved in the audit are required to do so every the executive directors are regularly invited to attend meetings.
seven years and other partners and senior staff members every The Committee also has access to the external auditors advice ten years.
without the presence of the executive directors.
In the course Specified non-audit services may be provided by the external of the financial year, Peter Johnson, the Audit Committee auditor subject to a competitive bid process other than in Chairman, also met with each of the divisional Finance Directors situations where it is determined by the Group Finance Director to obtain first hand a clear understanding of some of the that the work is closely related to the audit or when a significant underlying details behind the financial information presented benefit can be obtained from work previously conducted by to and considered by the Committee and the Board.
Whilst the Group Finance Director may The Audit Committee has the authority to examine any matters approve any new engagement up to the value of 25,000, relating to the financial affairs of the Group.
This includes anything in excess requires Audit Committee approval up to an the appointment, terms of engagement, objectivity and agreed annual aggregate limit of 75% of the prior year audit fee.
independence of the external auditors, the nature and scope In exceptional circumstances this limit may be exceeded with of the audit, reviews of the interim and annual financial the approval of the Board.
In determining whether or not to statements, internal control procedures, accounting policies, engage the external auditor to provide any non-audit services adherence with accounting standards and such other related consideration will be given to whether this would create a threat functions as the Board may require.
The Committee also to their independence.
Similarly the external auditor will not be considers and regularly reviews other risk management permitted to undertake any advocacy role for the Group such and control documentation, including the Groups policy that their objectivity may be compromised.
The external auditor on whistleblowing and security reporting procedures.
may not provide services involving the preparation of accounting records or financial statements, the design, implementation Specifically, at their May 2011 meeting the Committee considered and operation of financial information systems, actuarial and Combined Code Corporate Governance compliance, taxation internal control functions or the management of internal audits.
The October 2011 meeting Fees paid to the auditors are disclosed in note 5 of the was concerned primarily with the interim results whilst the financial statements.
February 2012 meeting reviewed goodwill and other intangibles,  audit plan and preparation of the Tax and other professional services have also been provided to 2012 financial statements.
the Group by audit firms KPMG and Ernst & Young during the year.
A resolution proposing  LLPs Director Audit Committee meetings re-appointment as Group auditors will be put to shareholders Peter Johnson Chairman 3 3 at the forthcoming AGM.
Jacques Petry 3 3 Stephen Riley 3 3 Eric van Amerongen 3 3 Bracketed figures indicate potential attendance of each director.
RYHUQDQFH Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 $FFRXQWDELOLW DQG $XGLW &RQWLQXRXV SURFHVV IRU WKH PRQLWRULQJ RI WKH V VWHP RI LQWHUQDO FRQWURO The responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in relation to the financial statements are set out on pages 84 to 86.
Regular features of the Groups internal control system which contribute towards its continuous monitoring are as follows: 5LVN PDQDJHPHQW DQG LQWHUQDO FRQWURO A defined schedule of matters for decision by the Board.
The Group risk management framework and the steps taken A clear management structure including clear limits of to manage risk are outlined on pages 42 to 47. authority over items such as capital expenditure, pricing strategy and contract authorisation.
QWHUQDO FRQWURO UHVSRQVLELOLW A comprehensive planning and budgeting exercise.
The system of internal control is based on a continuous process Performance is measured monthly against plan and prior year of identifying, evaluating and managing risks including the risk results and explanations sought for significant variances.
Key performance indicators KPIs are also extensively used management processes outlined on pages 42 and 43.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Groups to help management of the business and to provide early system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
warning of potential additional risk factors.
See pages 18 and 19 for additional information on the use of KPIs.
The Board recognises that internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Monthly meetings of the Groups most senior managers and business objectives and can therefore only provide reasonable executive directors to discuss performance and plans.
and not absolute assurance against material misstatements, losses and the breach of laws and regulations.
Monthly visits to key operating locations by the executive directors to attend local management meetings which include discussion of key risk areas.
$QQXDO DVVHVVPHQW RI WKH HIIHFWLYHQHVV RI WKH V VWHP RI LQWHUQDO FRQWURO Appointment and retention of appropriately experienced and qualified staff to help achieve business objectives.
In addition to the Boards ongoing internal control monitoring process it has also conducted an annual review of the An annual risk-based internal audit plan approved by the Audit effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in Committee.
Audits are performed under the guidance of the compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Risk Management and Internal Audit Manager with findings Governance Code.
This review covered all material controls discussed at business unit meetings.
Summaries of audit including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk findings and the status of action plans to remedy significant management systems.
Specifically, the Boards review failings are discussed at Group Board and Audit Committee consisted of the following elements: meetings on a regular basis.
The Risk Management and Internal Audit manager attends all Audit Committee meetings.
Consideration of changes in the risk environment and the Groups ability to respond to these through its review of A range of quality assurance and environmental management business risk registers controls and improvement action plans.
systems in use across the Group.
Where appropriate these are independently certified to internationally recognised Review of the six-monthly certification by country standards including ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 and subject management that appropriate internal controls are in place to regular independent auditing.
following assessment by the Risk Management and Internal Audit function.
Regular meetings of the Audit Committee, comprising nonexecutive directors, to consider all key aspects of the risk Review of reports by internal audit and external auditors.
management and internal control systems.
During the year internal audits were conducted on purchases and payments systems, weighbridge operations, accrued Where weaknesses in the internal control system have been income, controls over cash transactions as well as financial identified through the monitoring processes outlined above, controls audits at operational level.
plans for strengthening them are put in place and action plans regularly monitored until complete.
The Board confirms that no material weaknesses were identified during the year and therefore no remedial action is required in relation to them.
Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 RYHUQDQFH Corporate Governance LQDQFLDO UHSRUWLQJ, QYHVWRU 5HODWLRQV In addition to the general risk management and internal control The Company has an active investor relations programme, processes described above, the Group has also implemented regularly meeting with institutional investors, analysts, press and internal controls specific to the financial reporting process and other parties.
The Board obtains feedback from its joint brokers, the preparation of the annual consolidated financial statements.
Jefferies Hoare Govett formally RBS Hoare Govett and Investec The main control aspects are as follows: on the views of institutional shareholders and the Chairman attends meetings with major shareholders whose views are Formal written financial policies and procedures applicable communicated to the Board as a whole.
Detailed shareholder to all business units.
and market comment in particular is reported to the Board after results announcements.
The Group website contains A detailed reporting calendar including the submission of useful information for shareholders and the general public.
detailed monthly accounts for each business unit in addition The Company also communicates with private and institutional to the year-end and interim reporting process.
Detailed management review to Board level of both monthly The UK Stewardship Code introduced by the Financial management accounts and year-end and interim accounts.
Reporting Council in 2010 encourages enhanced shareholder Bi-annual certification by country managing directors and engagement particularly with a Companys institutional investors finance directors and executive directors on compliance with to improve long-term returns to shareholders which the Board appropriate policies and the accuracy of financial information.
The Board was therefore delighted that the 2011 Report and Accounts won two prestigious Information on the Companys share capital is set out in the awards: Best Strategy Disclosure of a FTSE 250 Company Directors Report.
at the ICSA Hermes Transparency in Governance Awards in November 2011 and Best Investor Communication at the 2011 $QWL EULEHU DQG FRUUXSWLRQ PLC Awards held in March 2012.
Over the last year the Group has considered its response to the UK Bribery Act which came into force in July 2011.
The main steps taken to ensure compliance have been as follows: Distribution of the new Group Anti-bribery policy to all business units.
Shanks Group Follow-up of the policy by an article in the Group newsletter.
WINNER Best Investor Manager briefing presentations given to all key staff.
Communication Regular updates given to the Audit Committee on progress against the Anti-bribery policy implementation plan.
Internal Audit will be reviewing compliance with various aspects of the policy across the Group.
Subsequent to the year end, a 24 hour 7 days a week confidential reporting, whistleblowing, service has also been established for employees.
