Corporate governance report A sound governance structure engenders a successful company.
Matthew Emmens Chairman In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code each Dear Shareholder member of the Board not standing for election, shall stand for The Board is committed to high standards of corporate re-election at the 2013 AGM.
governance which is the foundation of a sustainable and successful company.
As Chairman of the Board it is my responsibility to ensure that the Board dynamics promote open and constructive discussion and Closely linked to governance is culture.
The Board works with challenge and that the Boards time is spent effectively.
We management to set the values of the Company and to create a conducted our second external Board evaluation this year which culture which promotes integrity, responsibility and putting the concluded that the Board is working well, engages in meaningful patient at the heart of what we do.
challenge and debate and was equipped with appropriate and timely information to make informed decisions affecting the The Boards core activities in 2012 included the review of the Company.
We intend to continue to have an external evaluation Companys long term strategy, the monitoring of performance, every three years.
A more detailed disclosure of the evaluation consideration of the risk identication and management system, process can be found on page 40 of this report.
the review of material risks, and board and management succession.
During the year the Board spent time reviewing the Companys vision and strategy with management to ensure that the Company A core area of Board focus is ensuring that the Company has the continues to focus on growing the business for the long term.
This right people to deliver the Companys strategy and vision and to resulted in the Board approving the Companys 2020 vision.
deliver long term shareholder value.
The Board recognizes the value of diversity and considers all aspects of diversity, including As Chairman, I am confident that Shire will continue to deliver skills and experiences, backgrounds and gender to ensure that the shareholder value through the delivery of our strategy and 2020 composition of the Shire Board best serves the interests of the vision within a framework that promotes good governance.
The appointments during the year of Dr. Flemming Ornskov as Chief Executive officer Designate and Dr. Steven Gillis as Non-Executive Director, followed rigorous search processes, which incorporated the Boards principles on diversity.
More detail is provided in the section on the Nomination Committee on page 44.
38 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Role and responsibilities of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Compliance statement Senior Independent Director, and Chief Executive officer This report outlines how Shire has applied the main principles set Chairman The Board is chaired by Matthew Emmens.
out in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the UK The Chairman is responsible for the leadership Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 the Governance Code.
of the Board which includes ensuring that The Governance Code is published by the Financial Reporting Board discussions are conducted in a way Council and is available from its website, www.
which promotes open discussion between For the year to December 31, 2012 the Company has, in the Directors such that no individual Director or Boards view, complied fully with the provisions set out in the small group of Directors dominates Governance Code.
The Chairman is available to meet with shareholders on any matter which is important to such shareholder.
Leadership The Board, which currently comprises three Executive and eight Deputy Chairman David Kappler, as Deputy Chairman, provides Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman, is responsible support and guidance to the Chairman and collectively for the long term success of the Company.
Throughout deputizes for the Chairman as required.
2012 Shire had two Executive Directors, the Chief Executive Senior As Senior Independent Director, David Kappler officer, Angus Russell, and the Chief Financial officer, Graham Independent acts as a sounding board for the Chairman Hetherington.
On January 2, 2013, Dr. Flemming Ornskov joined Director and is available as an intermediary for the other the Board as Chief Executive officer Designate and he will Directors, if necessary.
The Senior become Chief Executive officer on April 30, 2013, when Independent Director is also responsible for Angus Russell retires.
chairing meetings of the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman and Executive Role of the Board Directors present and in leading the NonThe Board is responsible for the overall management of the Executive Directors in evaluating annually the Company.
The Board has reserved certain matters for its performance of the Chairman.
determination and approval including the Companys strategic direction, risk prole, internal controls, annual budget, periodic Chief Executive The Chief Executive officer, Angus Russell, financial reports, overall governance, material transactions and officer has the overall responsibility for running the succession planning.
The full list of these matters, known as the business on a day-to-day basis and he chairs Boards Reserve Powers, were reviewed by the Board in 2012.
The meetings of the Leadership Team.
Executive Directors and the Leadership Team are responsible for day-to-day business operations.
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director, and the Chief Executive officer are The Board discharges its responsibilities through regularly clearly dened, separate and have been approved by the Board.
scheduled meetings and ad hoc meetings, as may be required.
More details can be found on Shires website.
The Board and its committees monitor and evaluate the performance of the Group as a whole, through engaging with the Board meetings Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial officer, members of the During the year the Board held six scheduled and one ad hoc Leadership Team and other members of senior management.
All scheduled meetings were held over two days, with the exception of the meetings held in June and October, which were The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for exercising held over one and three days respectively.
One of the scheduled independent judgment in Board deliberations, assisting in Board meetings was held at our Human Genetic Therapies developing strategy and reviewing and constructively challenging business in Lexington, Massachusetts and another at our Specialty the performance of senior management.
To facilitate the discharge Pharmaceuticals business in Chesterbrook, Pennsylvania, enabling of these responsibilities, the Non-Executive Directors met four the Board to engage first hand with management based at those times during the year without the Executive Directors present.
In 2013 we intend to hold one of our scheduled Board meetings at our Regenerative Medicines business in San Diego, California.
The Chairman will always seek to obtain consensus at Board meetings but, where necessary, decisions will be taken by majority.
If any director has concerns about the running of the Company or any proposal which cannot be resolved, such concerns will be recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
No such concerns arose during 2012.
At each Board meeting, the Chairman of each Board Committee informs the Board of key matters discussed and agreed at the preceding Committee meeting.
Matters not formally reserved to the Board are delegated to the Leadership Team, which is chaired by the Chief Executive officer.
In addition to the formal Board business, the Chief Executive and members of the Leadership Team will provide the Board with a business update.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 39 Corporate governance report Board meeting attendance Time commitment 1 Scheduled meetings Non-Executive Directors are required to allocate sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
In addition to their work in Meetings Meetings eligible to relation to scheduled meetings of the Board, any Board Committee Directors attended attend and the AGM, the Non-Executive Directors commit time for meetings with senior management, site meetings and to participate Matthew Emmens 7 7 in additional Board and Committee meetings as the business of the Angus Russell 7 7 Company may require from time to time.
Graham Hetherington 7 7 William Burns 7 7 Prior to taking up a new role in another organization, Non-Executive Dr. Steven Gillis 2 2 Directors are required to first discuss the opportunity with the Dr. David Ginsburg 7 7 Chairman.
This is to ensure that acceptance of the new role does David Kappler 7 7 not result in a conict of interest or that the Non-Executive Director is unable to give sufficient time to Shires business.
Susan Kilsby 7 7 Anne Minto 7 7 Board performance evaluation David Stout 7 7 The Board carries out an evaluation of Board and Board Committee performance annually.
In most years this is managed 1 Includes one ad hoc board meeting.
by the Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary.
The Board supports the principle that Board evaluation is externally Board effectiveness facilitated every three years.
Dr. Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Composition of the Board conducted the 2008 evaluation and she was engaged to carry out The Board is of the opinion that each of its members has the the Board performance evaluation in 2012.
Boardroom Review has skills, knowledge, aptitude and experience to perform the no other connection with the Company.
The process followed by functions required of a director of a listed company and that Dr. Long included one on one meetings with each Director and the the Board comprised a good balance of Executive and Company Secretary, observing Board and Committee meetings Non-Executive Directors.
and a review of Board papers.
Longs evaluation report was discussed with all the Board.
Dr. Long concluded that the Board The Board considers William Burns, Dr. Steven Gillis, Dr. David and its Committees were functioning strongly.
The Board culture Ginsburg, David Kappler, Susan Kilsby, Anne Minto and David was very positive and promoted open, challenging and engaged Stout to be Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board discussions at all meetings and the Board and Board Committees regards each of these Non-Executive Directors to be independent time was being managed effectively.
The Board was equipped with of management, independent in judgment and character and free appropriate and timely information to make informed decisions from any business or other relationship which could materially affecting the Company.
In discussing how the Board might improve interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment.
its effectiveness, it was agreed that more time should be allocated The Board when making its determination on the independence to enable discussion around Committee feedback and that ways to of Mr. Kappler gave particular consideration to the fact that enhance Board connectivity between meetings should be Mr. Kappler will have been a serving member of the Board for reviewed.
The Company will address this in 2013. nine years at the time of the Companys next AGM in 2013.
The Governance Code suggests that length of service of nine Information and support years or more is relevant to a determination of independence.
The Executive Directors and the Company Secretary are The Board noted that there have been substantial changes to responsible for ensuring that detailed information is provided to Board membership over the last few years with all the NonBoard members in advance of any scheduled or ad hoc Board Executive Directors, other than Mr. Kappler and the Chairman, meeting.
Before decisions are made, consideration is given to the having been appointed within the last 3 years.
The Board adequacy of information available to the Board and, if necessary, concluded that Mr. Kappler remains independent, his commitment decisions are deferred if further information is required.
is undiminished and his performance continues to be effective.
Board members receive detailed information from the Executive Biographical details of the members of the Board who served Directors, the Company Secretary, members of the Leadership during the year and up to the date of this report are shown on Team and other senior managers to enable them to discharge their pages 36 and 37. responsibilities effectively.
All Directors have access to all employees in the Company and to the advice and guidance of the Appointment and re-election of Directors Company Secretary and are encouraged to seek independent The Board may appoint any person to be a Director either to ll a advice at the Groups expense, where they feel it is appropriate.
vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board.
Any Director so appointed will be subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment.
In subsequent years Directors are subject to annual re-election.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board ordinarily for a term of two years, subject to re-appointment by the Board.
The terms of appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors and the service contracts of the Executive Directors are made available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
40 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Board Committees Science & Technology Committee The Board has established the Audit, Compliance & Risk The Science & Technology Committee is responsible for Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination periodically reviewing and advising the Board on Shires investment Committee and the Science & Technology Committee together in research, development and technology.
The Committee held the Committees.
Each Committee has written terms of reference four scheduled and four ad hoc meetings in 2012.
Members of the which are reviewed annually, have been approved by the Board, Committee attended all meetings they were eligible to attend.
and are available on Shires website.
The roles, membership and The members of the Committee are all Independent Non-Executive activities of each Committee are set out later in this report and, in Directors.
William Burns, Dr. Steven Gillis, Dr. Jeffrey Leiden and the case of the Directors remuneration report, on pages 48 to 67.
Dr. David Ginsburg served on the Committee during the year ended December 31, 2012.
Dr. Leiden chaired the Committee until he Leadership Team stepped down from the Board on January 31, 2012.
Dr. Ginsburg was appointed as acting Chairman from February 1, 2012.
William The Board has delegated the day-to-day management of Shire to Burns and Dr. Gillis were appointed as members of the Committee the Leadership Team which is chaired by the Chief Executive with effect from February 8, 2012 and October 1, 2012 respectively.
The Leadership Team normally meets once a month to deliberate on major business issues.
Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee During 2012 the Leadership Team held ten scheduled meetings.
The Leadership Team currently comprises Angus Russell Chief Membership Executive officer, Dr. Flemming Ornskov Chief Executive officer Members of the Committee are all Non-Executive Directors of the Designate, Graham Hetherington Chief Financial officer, Dr. Sylvie Company and are selected on the basis of their knowledge and Gregoire President, Human Genetic Therapies, Dr. Jeffrey Jonas experience of financial matters, financial reporting, risk President, Regenerative Medicine, Tatjana May General Counsel management and internal control.
Each of the members of the and Company Secretary and Ann Judge Chief Human Resources Committee has been determined by the Board to be an officer.
Dr. Sylvie Gregoire and Ann Judge will both be stepping Independent Non-Executive Director for the purposes of the down in March 2013.
Each member also satisfies the NASDAQ rules regarding the independence of members of the Committee.
Relations with shareholders The Board is satisfied that Mr. Kappler, who is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and who was The Group is committed to having a constructive engagement Chief Financial officer of the Cadbury Schweppes group from 1995 with shareholders.
until his retirement in April 2004, has recent and relevant financial The Group announces its financial results quarterly.
The Board has also determined that Mr. Kappler is the Executive officer and Chief Financial officer gave presentations on Committees financial expert for the purposes of the Sarbanesthe quarterly results in 2012 by teleconference for institutional Oxley Act 2002. investors and analysts.
As the Company has securities listed on the Attendance NASDAQ Global Select Market in the US, Shire also les quarterly Member Number of reports on Form 10-Q and an Annual Report on Form 10-K with throughout meetings the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
1 Committee member 2012 attended The Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer, David Kappler Chairman Yes 5 supported by other senior executives, attended individual and Susan Kilsby Yes 5 group meetings with major shareholders throughout the year to David Stout Yes 5 discuss the Groups strategy and performance and to understand 1 The Committee met on five occasions during 2012. the views of major shareholders, which are then communicated to the Board as a whole.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Meetings Non-Executive Director are available also to meet with major At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Chief shareholders.
Executive officer, the Chief Financial officer, the Group Financial Controller, the Chief Compliance and Risk officer, the Head of Shires website provides information about the Group and its Internal Audit, the Groups external auditor and the Chairman of the business and is regularly updated.
The Groups Investor Board attended Committee meetings.
Relations department acts as a contact point for investors throughout the year.
The Committee held a number of private meetings during the course of the year with respectively, the Groups external auditor, At the Companys AGM shareholders were given the opportunity to the Head of Internal Audit and the Chief Compliance and Risk ask questions of the Directors.
The Directors also made officer, without any executive member of the Board or other themselves available informally after the meeting to answer member of management present.
The purpose of these meetings questions from shareholders.
was to facilitate open discussions between Committee members and these persons.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 41 Corporate governance report Role of the Committee Approval of audit and non-audit services provided by the The Committees terms of reference include all matters specified in external auditor the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Governance The Committee has adopted a formal policy in relation to the Code.
The Committees terms of reference are available on Shires provision of audit and non-audit services by the external auditor.
The key responsibilities of the Committee under its terms The principal purpose of the policy is to ensure that the of reference are to: independence of the external auditor is not impaired.
Q monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, The policy, which is in compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act including its annual and quarterly reports, preliminary results 2002, prohibits the provision of certain non-audit services to the announcements and any other Shire announcement relating to Group by the external auditor, including: the Groups financial performance: Q bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records Q ensure clarity of disclosure in financial reporting and the or financial statements of the Group: presentation of a balanced and understandable assessment of Q design and implementation of financial information systems: the Groups financial position: Q appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or contributionQ make recommendations to the Board on matters to be put to in-kind reports: shareholders in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor, to determine the terms of Q actuarial services or internal audit out-sourcing services: engagement and remuneration of the external auditor and to Q legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit: assess, at least annually, the objectivity and independence of the external auditor: Q management functions or human resources services: Q approve the external audit plan and review and discuss issues Q broker, dealer, investment advisor or investment banking and recommendations arising from the external audit: services: and Q set and apply a formal policy in relation to the provision of Q any other service that the Public Company Accounting Oversight non-audit services by the external auditor with a view to Board determines is impermissible as a non-audit service.
preserving the external auditors independence and objectivity: All audit and permissible non-audit services may be provided by Q monitor and review the integrity of the internal audit program, the external auditor if the work is either specically pre-approved by consider the findings of internal audit reviews and managements the Committee or if the work falls within a schedule of services response to them: pre-approved by the Committee in accordance with the preapproval policy.
The Committees pre-approval policy covers four Q review and approve the annual internal audit plan and review, at categories of work audit services, audit-related services, taxation least annually, the effectiveness of the Groups internal control services and other non-audit related services.
If the services and risk management systems: proposed to be provided by the external auditor fall within a Q review the Groups strategy for the management of key corporate category of pre-approved services and additionally the fee for and financial risks of the Group: those services is below pre-approved annual and transactional limits, such services may be provided by the external auditor Q review procedures for the receipt and treatment of complaints without specic, individual approval of those services by the received by the Group regarding accounting, internal accounting Committee, provided that management does not need to exercise controls or auditing matters: any discretion in determining whether a proposed service falls Q to review the status of the Companys compliance program to within one of the pre-approved categories.
In all cases, the ensure adherence to applicable legal and regulatory standards Committee is notied at the next Committee meeting of any and to the Companys Code of Ethics where there may be a pre-approved service that is provided by the external auditor.
material impact on the Company: Any audit or permissible non-audit services proposed to be Q review with the Chief Compliance and Risk officer arrangements provided by the external auditor which is either not a pre-approved for the condential, anonymous submission by employees of service, or is a pre-approved service for which fees are above the concerns regarding matters which could have a material impact annual or transactional limits, must be approved in advance by the on the Group, and to ensure these arrangements allow Committee, who will consider whether the independence, skills proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and and experience of the external auditor make it a suitable supplier of appropriate follow-up action: the proposed service.
Authority has been delegated to the Chairman of the Committee, to approve such services in situations Q review the major findings of internal investigations and where the Company requires an expeditious decision.
Any decision managements response and material inquiries received from made under such delegation of authority is presented to the regulators or governmental agencies: and Committee at its subsequent scheduled meeting.
Q review the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and review the investigation and remediation of any alleged or suspected fraud.
The Chairman of the Committee briefs the Board at each of its meetings on the matters considered by the Committee, including those items where it considers that action is required.
The Committees terms of reference give it authority to investigate any activity within its terms of reference and to be responsible for the resolution of any disagreement between management and the external auditor regarding the Groups financial reporting.
The Committee is also authorized to seek any information it requires from any employee of the Group in order for the Committee to perform its duties.
42 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Committee activities Other matters During 2012, the Committees areas of review included: Q compliance updates, including areas relating to bribery and Financial statements corruption: Q consideration of any key accounting judgments, recent M&A Q review the renewal terms of the Groups Insurance Program: transactions and the related accounting: Q review of the Committees terms of reference: Q the financial disclosures contained in the Groups 2011 full year Q the Companys R&D and Supply chain assurance functions: and 2012 quarterly results announcements and related financial reports: Q review and update of the Delegation of Authorities: and Q various accounting matters, including but not limited to: the Q the evaluation of the Committees performance.
application of the Groups critical accounting policies and US External auditor GAAP in the context of the financial statement disclosures: accounting for the acquisition of FerroKin Biosciences, Inc. and Q an initial review of the external auditors performance and certain assets and liabilities from Pervasis Therapeutics Inc. : effectiveness during 2012, including a review of managements accounting for sales deductions: accounting for litigation, claims assessment of Deloittes performance and effectiveness in 2012, and settlements: revenue recognition for royalty income and a final review of the 2012 audit at the February 2013 receivable from GSK: intangible asset and goodwill impairment Committee meeting: reviews, including the impairment charges recognised in respect Q approval of the 2012 Audit Plan: and of the Groups RESOLOR intangible assets see page 99 for further details : the accounting for various tax matters: and the Q review of the objectivity and independence of the external application of new accounting standards: auditor.
Q review of the questions raised by the SEC concerning the The Committee has remained satisfied that neither the level of Groups 2011 Form 10-K ling and the approval of Shires non-audit services nor the nature of the work performed by the responses.
The SEC were satisfied with Shires responses: external auditor has in any way impaired their objectivity and independence.
Details of the fees paid to the external auditor are Q the Companys Non GAAP reporting policies: and disclosed in Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
Q quarterly audit reports from the external auditor were received by Following the review of the external auditors performance as the Committee and discussed.
The reports addressed the regards the 2012 financial year, the Committee recommended the following key areas: re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Groups external auditor to external auditor responsibility and independence: the Board.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP will be put to significant accounting estimates and judgments made by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
Deloitte LLP were appointed as management: and the Groups external auditor in 2002. significant accounting policies and one off transactions.
The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner Internal financial control and risk management systems responsible for the engagement every five years.
This is the first year of the current lead audit partner.
There are no contractual Q semi-annual review of the Groups corporate risk schedule which obligations that restrict the Companys choice of external auditor.
included the consideration of the key risks faced by the Group and review of the Groups plans to mitigate such risks: Q review of the Groups annual internal audit plan, compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls over financial reporting: Q quarterly review of the results of the Groups internal audit program: Q annual review of the Groups Treasury Policies and recommendation of proposed changes to the Board: Q quarterly reports on treasury activities and a review of the Groups foreign exchange exposure risk management strategy: Q monitoring of the Groups Accounts Receivable exposure to the Eurozone, and the Groups related risk mitigation activities: Q annual review of the Groups tax strategy and assessment of scal risk: and Q review of the Groups arrangements for the condential, anonymous submission by employees of concerns regarding matters which could have a material impact on the Group.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 43 Corporate governance report Q the search for a new Chief Executive officer with a broad range Nomination Committee of biopharmaceutical experience.
This search resulted in the Membership appointment of Dr. Flemming Ornskov to the Board as Chief A majority of the Committee has been determined by the Board to Executive officer Designate on 2 January 2013: be Independent Non-Executive Directors for the purposes of the Governance Code.
Q updates on the search for a new President of the Specialty Pharmaceuticals Business: Attendance Number of Q the selection and engagement of search agencies to help the meetings Committee identify potential new Board candidates: 1 Committee member Member throughout 2012 attended Q an evaluation of the Committees performance to ensure it is David Kappler Chairman Yes 5 operating effectively, taking into account feedback from the William Burns Yes 5 Board: Matthew Emmens Yes 5 2 Anne Minto From February 8, 2012 4 Q recommendations to the Board concerning the re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors whose terms of ofce expired during 1 The Committee met on five occasions during 2012.
At the invitation of the Committee, the year: Angus Russell attended all meetings.
If the discussion at any meeting relates to a Board member who is present, they recuse themselves for that part of the meeting.
Q a review of the 2011 Nomination Committee Report: and 2 Ms. Minto attended all the meetings she was eligible to attend.
Q a review of the Committees terms of reference.
Role of the Committee The key responsibilities of the Committee under its terms of Board diversity reference are to: Diversity is a principle which the Board strongly supports.
In early 2012, the Board adopted a Board Diversity Policy which recognizes Q regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board, that a Board with a diverse mix of skills, experiences, background including the skills, knowledge, diversity and experience of the and gender is best able to serve the interests of the Company, its Board, and make recommendations to the Board with regard to shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Board Diversity Policy is any changes: applied when considering appointments to the Board and when Q identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates annually reviewing the performance effectiveness of the Board.
The for new Board appointments: value of diversity is mirrored throughout the Company with similar policies in place for employee recruitment.
Additional disclosure on Q in relation to appointments to the Board, to identify capabilities the Company diversity policy can be found in the section on Our required and consider candidates from a wide range of People on page 69 of the Directors report.
backgrounds on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the benets of diversity and also consider the New appointments candidates ability to devote sufficient time to discharge their Before commencing a search for a new Board member, the responsibilities effectively: Nomination Committee reects on the balance of skills and experiences currently on the Board and the need for any Q review succession planning for Executive and Non-Executive complementary or new skills and experiences to enable the Directors to ensure that this is managed in a timely manner with Company to deliver its strategy.
The Committee discusses its a view to ensuring the long term success of the Group: and recommendations on the core search requirements with the Board Q make recommendations to the Board concerning the reprior to commencing a search.
The Committees choice of external appointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of search rm is inuenced by the candidate prole being sought.
The their term of ofce, having regard to their performance and ability search rm is informed amongst other things of the time to continue to contribute to the Board in light of the knowledge, commitment required and of the Companys diversity policy.
In skills and experience required.
2012, the Committee retained John Archer of Catalyst Advisers to lead the searches.
Catalyst Advisers has no other connection with The terms of reference of the Committee are available on Shires the Company.
The Chairman of the Nomination Committee and the website, www.
com Chairman of the Company engage with the search rm in elaborating on the search prole and in managing the search.
Committee activities Candidates selected for the short list are interviewed by members During 2012, the Committees activities included: of the Nomination Committee.
The Board is kept updated on the Q a review of the composition, diversity, tenure, independence and search process.
Once a preferred candidate is selected, other the balance of skills and experience of the Board and its Board members not on the Nomination Committee are offered the Committees: opportunity to meet with the candidate.
Q the search for a new Non-Executive Director with scientific, Following appointment, a tailored induction program is prepared for commercial and transactional experience.
This search resulted in each new Board member.
This program includes meetings with the appointment of Dr. Steven Gillis to the Board and to the senior management in the Companys businesses and functions, Companys Science & Technology Committee and its visiting key business sites and a familiarization with core Company Remuneration Committee: policies and procedures.
The program may also include, as is the case with Dr. Flemming Ornskov, meetings with major investors.
44 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Q the Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer have Financial reporting and disclosure, evaluated the effectiveness of those disclosure controls and internal control and the role of the procedures: auditors Q the Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer have The Board has, through the ACR Committee established formal indicated in the Form 10-K whether there were any significant and transparent arrangements for financial reporting, external changes in the Groups internal control over financial reporting: auditing, the review of the internal control environment and of and compliance and other risk issues.
The ACR Committees terms of Q based on the evaluation of the Chief Executive officer and the reference extend to the Groups compliance and risk management Chief Financial officer, all significant deficiencies and material activities as a whole including financial, operational and compliance weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over controls hereafter referred to as internal controls.
financial reporting which are reasonably likely to affect adversely The ACR Committee has access, as it may require, to the Groups the Groups ability to record, process and report financial internal and external auditors throughout the year, in addition to information included in the Form 10-K have been disclosed to presentations from both on a quarterly basis.
Any significant the Groups external auditor.
findings or identied risks are closely examined and are reported by The Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer have the ACR Committee Chairman to the Board with recommendations completed these certications and they have been led with the for action.
SEC in the United States as part of the Groups Annual Report as All employees can, via an independently managed Global at December 31, 2012 on Form 10-K.
Compliance Helpline, raise any concerns in any of these areas and Risk management, compliance and internal control any other area, anonymously if they wish, to the Chief Compliance The Board, in accordance with the Governance Code, recognizes and Risk officer in the strictest confidence without fear of its overall responsibility for determining the nature and extent of risk retaliation.
Periodically, the Chief Compliance and Risk officer the Company is willing to take to achieve its objectives, including provides the ACR Committee with a summary of concerns raised the requirement to maintain sound risk management and internal through various channels including through the Global Compliance control systems to safeguard shareholders investments, the Helpline and other condential means, and to the extent required, Groups assets and to regularly review the effectiveness of such the types of investigative procedures performed and any significant systems.
Whilst the Board acknowledges its responsibility for the concerns raised as a result of any follow-up investigation.
systems of risk management and internal control, such systems are Financial reporting and disclosure designed to manage rather than eliminate all risk.
Accordingly even The Board, with the assistance of the ACR Committee, has the most effective systems of risk management and internal control ultimate responsibility for the preparation of accounts and for the can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against monitoring of the Groups systems of internal control.
The Board material misstatement or loss.
strives to present a balanced assessment of the Groups financial In 2012, the Board reviewed both the key risks faced by the Group position and prospects and it endeavors to present all financial, and the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal scientific and other information so as to be comprehensible to control systems.
Aside from these reviews, the Board delegates investors.
The Group publishes quarterly financial reports so that its responsibility to the ACR Committee for more regular review of shareholders can monitor the Groups financial position regularly.
both key risks and internal controls and for monitoring the activities The Group has established a Disclosure Committee, which is of the internal audit function.
The ACR Committee has conducted a chaired by the Chief Financial officer.
Its membership includes regular review of the effectiveness of these areas during 2012. executives and senior managers from the businesses and from the The Group has risk management, compliance, internal audit legal, finance, compliance and risk functions.
Its responsibilities functions and other corporate and business assurance functions.
include ensuring that all material information is disclosed to The Chief Compliance and Risk officer and the Head of Internal investors in the Groups periodic financial reports and that such Audit report to the Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial information is recorded, summarized and reported accurately.
officer, respectively, but each has direct and regular access to the Following the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 in the Chairman of the Group, the Chairman of the ACR Committee and United States, the Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial the other members of that Committee.
They also both attend and officer are required to complete formal certications, which regularly present at ACR Committee meetings.
confirm, inter alia, that: The Groups risk management, compliance and assurance strategy Q the Annual Report on Form 10-K the Form 10-K in the is based on a risk and control framework containing the following United States does not contain any material misstatements key elements: or omissions: Q an effective control environment: Q financial information reported in the Form 10-K fairly presents the Q an effective process to identify, assess and manage risks: financial condition, results of operations and cash ows of the Group: Q effective internal control procedures: and Q the Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer are Q effective internal audit.
responsible for determining and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures for the purposes of financial reporting in the United States: Shire plc Annual Report 2012 45 Corporate governance report Effective control environment The principal focus of Shires compliance effort is to prevent and The key elements of the Groups control environment are as detect misconduct or non-compliance with law or regulations follows: through the promotion of ethical behavior through policy development, appropriate training, and monitoring or audit.
Shire Q the Board has overall responsibility to maintain the risk employees are encouraged to seek help and to report suspected management and internal control systems and has delegated cases of misconduct without fear of retaliation.
Employees can do certain responsibilities to the Leadership Team and or the ACR this condentially through management or through the Global Committee: Compliance Helpline or other means.
Concerns and allegations are fairly and independently investigated and appropriate disciplinary Q a framework of Board approved corporate values and Code of action is taken if warranted.
Ethics, which sets appropriate standards of ethical behavior, are operational throughout the Group: The GCRM is managed by the Chief Compliance and Risk officer, who reports directly to the Chief Executive officer.
The Chief Q the internal governance structure of the organization is well Compliance and Risk officer regularly provides summary reports documented with clear reporting lines and clear limits of authority on the Risk Council and compliance activities to the ACR for different matters: Committee.
The Chief Compliance and Risk officer has access at Q a range of corporate policies, procedures and training have been all times to the Committee Chairman which provides a mechanism implemented: for bypassing management should the need ever arise.
Q the internal audit department, overseen by the Head of Internal Effective internal control procedures Audit, carries out regular reviews of internal controls and reports The Group has a system of internal control procedures.
findings to management and the ACR Committee: Compliance with these procedures is monitored through a system of internal review and regular reports prepared by Internal Audit, the Q the Company also maintains other corporate and business Groups external auditor and other corporate and business assurance functions in the areas of Environment, Health and assurance functions.
Any significant issues arising are reported to Safety, Research and Development, and Manufacturing Supply the ACR Committee.
These functions also carry out regular reviews of internal controls and report findings to management: and Effective internal audit The internal review of the Groups control procedures and Q the ACR Committee considers the findings of any major internal compliance with such procedures is mostly undertaken through investigations and managements response to them.
The ACR Committee monitors and reviews the Committee reports annually to the Board on the effectiveness of internal audit program, considers the findings of internal audit the Groups control environment.
reviews and managements response to them, and ensures Effective identication, assessment and management of risks efficient coordination between the Groups internal and external Management of business risk is essential for ensuring that the auditors.
The Groups Internal Audit function, comprising a mixture Group creates and preserves shareholder value.
Accordingly, the of internal and out-sourced resource, was operational throughout Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and 2012.
The ACR Committee, which is responsible for monitoring the managing the significant risks that it faces.
This process has been activity of the internal audit function, has reviewed the effectiveness in operation throughout the period under review and up to the date of the internal audit function during 2012. of signing the Annual Report and Accounts.
External auditing The Risk Council which is supported by the Global Compliance The ACR Committee has the primary responsibility for making a and Risk Management Department GCRM oversees the recommendation on the appointment, re-appointment and removal management and mitigation of the principal risks faced by the of the external auditor as well as for determining the remuneration Group.
The Risk Council comprises a number of cross-functional of and overseeing the work of the external auditor.
The ACR senior managers charged with overseeing the risk management Committee assesses at least annually the objectivity and process and activities of the Group.
Chaired by the Chief independence of the external auditor taking into account relevant Compliance and Risk officer, the membership includes senior regulatory requirements.
The Committee reviews and approves the employees of the businesses, plus the Head of Internal Audit.
Each annual external audit plan each year and ensures it is consistent business unit and corporate function must periodically review the with the scope of the auditors engagement.
In order to ensure that significant risks facing their businesses.
The functions are provided the independence and objectivity of the external auditor is with a framework for use in their review.
This review includes maintained, the Committee applies a formal policy for the provision identifying operational risks, compliance risks and risks to the of non-audit services.
Such services are categorized as follows: achievement of goals and objectives.
That review occurs twice Q services for which the external auditor are explicitly excluded: annually and material risks are recorded on a corporate risk schedule for review and assessment of the risks and mitigation Q services for which the external auditor can be engaged without plans.
Identication of a manager with responsibility for prior referral to the ACR Committee: and management of any given risk is required.
Q services for which pre-approval of the ACR Committee is The Chief Compliance and Risk officer provides the risk schedule required.
to the Leadership Team for review and validation.
The risk schedule The Committee also considers the fees paid to the external auditor is then provided twice yearly to the ACR Committee, and annually and whether the fee levels for non-audit services, individually and in to the Board.
aggregate, relative to the audit fee are appropriate so as not to The Risk Council is assisted by the GCRM, which is responsible for undermine their independence.
supporting the development and implementation of practices that On an annual basis, the ACR Committee assess the performance facilitate employees compliance with laws and Group policy.
The of the external audit rm based on pre-established critical success GCRM provides assistance to help employees meet high ethical factors, managements opinion on the rms independence and standards and comply with applicable laws and regulations.
objectivity and other key questions requiring ACR Committee consideration.
46 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Because of inherent limitations of internal control over financial Managements report on internal control reporting, material misstatements due to error may not be over financial reporting prevented or detected.
Projections of any evaluation of The Groups management is responsible for establishing and effectiveness for future periods are subject to the risk that controls maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that dened in Rules 13 a to 15 f promulgated under the US Securities the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may Exchange Act of 1934.
The Groups internal control over financial deteriorate.
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance The Groups management assessed the effectiveness of internal regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal financial statements for external purposes in accordance with Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of generally accepted accounting principles in the US.
Sponsoring Organizations COSO of the Treadway Commission.
The Groups internal control over financial reporting is a process Based on this assessment, management believes that the Groups designed by, or under the supervision of, the Companys Chief internal control over financial reporting was effective as of Financial officer and principal financial ofcers, or persons December 31, 2012. performing similar functions, and effected by the Companys The Groups independent auditor, Deloitte LLP, an independent Board, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable registered public accounting rm, has issued an auditors assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the report on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over preparation of financial statements for external purposes in financial reporting.
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: i pertain to the maintenance of Changes in internal control over financial records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reect the reporting transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: ii During the year ended December 31, 2012 there were no changes provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as in the Groups internal control over financial reporting that have necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that Groups internal control over financial reporting.
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company: and iii provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 47 Directors remuneration report We believe that we appropriately reward our high performing international management team for delivering strong, sustainable performance and long term shareholder value.
Anne Minto Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The Committees overall approach remains unchanged.
We aim to Dear Shareholder strike a balance between remuneration that is appropriate in a On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Remuneration competitive global market and the need for remuneration to be Committees Report for 2012 for which we will be seeking approval aligned with governance best practice and performance.
Shires from shareholders at our AGM in April 2013.
This report, which has early adoption of some new disclosure rules allowed us to reinforce been prepared in compliance with the UK Companies Act 2006 the Companys strong link of pay to performance over the past and related regulations, is designed to provide helpful context and several years.
The trajectory of executive pay is aligned with explanation of the Companys remuneration policies and how the Company results and the growth of the share price, thus ensuring Committee discharged its responsibilities in 2012. that there is a fair distribution of rewards between shareholders and executives.
During 2012 a number of events, both internal and external to Shire, inuenced the Committees agenda.
These provided Context to the Committees decisions opportunities to review certain remuneration policies, to confirm In making its decisions, the Committee considers Shires overall that our remuneration packages are able to attract top international performance, including both financial and non financial results, in talent, and to ensure that the link of remuneration decisions to the light of long term strategic goals.
Shire enjoyed another strong business results was transparent to shareholders.
These events year with industry leading growth and the advancement of our included another year of strong results for the Company, despite pipeline, creating significant opportunities for growth in the future.
some challenges across the pharmaceutical industry, the Shires performance during 2012 is described in detail in the Chief announcement that our CEO Angus Russell will retire in 2013 and Executives review and particular financial highlights include: that Dr. Flemming Ornskov will succeed him.
In addition, the Committee monitored the continued public debate on executive Q Product sales up 12% to $4.4 billion: pay and in particular the UK Governments proposals on improved 1 Q Non GAAP EBITDA up 7% to $1.6 billion: and remuneration reporting.
We have participated actively in the consultations managed over the past 18 months by the UK Q Growth in adjusted return on invested capital ROIC of Department for Business, Innovation and Skills and welcome 110 basis points over 2011 to 13.8%.
1 Refer to page 129 for details of this Non GAAP measure.
48 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Other key accomplishments included the successful completion of Key Committee decisions a broad range of acquisitions, licenses and collaborations for The Committee is confident that our pay decisions reect various target diseases and technology platforms, which have performance but also demonstrate responsibility.
Current contributed to the expansion and diversication of Shires arrangements continue to appropriately reward our high performing development pipeline, as well as the denition and application of international management team for delivering strong, sustainable the critical leadership capabilities required to fuel the Companys performance and long term shareholder value.
The key decisions growth and innovation, thus positioning Shire to select and develop for 2012 are highlighted below.
We also spent considerable time in 2012 Q Continued moderation in 2012 salary increases for Executive on CEO succession activities to ensure an orderly transition.
These Directors, aligned with the broader employee budget of 3%.
accomplishments are described in further detail later in this report.
Q Annual and long term incentive awards for the Chief Financial Individual performance and market practice are also included in the officer slightly below target against the backdrop of continued Committees assessment.
Consistent with the approach across the strong performance.
organisation, Executive Directors performance and behaviours in support of Shires culture are assessed as part of the performance Q Remuneration decisions in relation to the current Chief Executive assessment framework.
Remuneration practice is considered in Ofcers retirement from the Board in 2013 in line with his the context of the markets in which we compete for talent, both in contract and performance during his period of service.
No salary terms of the geographies in which we operate with around two increase or long term incentive award will be made in 2013 in the thirds of employees as well as the majority of the Leadership Team light of his scheduled retirement.
based in the US and the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors.
Q Replacement awards for forfeited annual and long term incentives needed to successfully recruit the incoming Chief Executive officer Designate will be delivered predominantly in Shire shares, with the timing of awards aligned with when they would have been received from his former employer.
The Committee will continue to monitor the current arrangements to ensure they remain aligned with Shires strategic goals and shareholders interests.
Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Committee members and the members of management who support the Committee for their commitment and hard work over the past year.
I would also like to welcome Dr. Steven Gillis who joined the Committee in October 2012 and brings with him extensive technical and scientific knowledge and commercial experience.
On behalf of the Board Anne Minto Chairman of the Remuneration Committee February 25, 2013 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 49
