REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE PURPOSE AND AIM overseeing the relationship with the external Auditor, including but not limited to approving its remuneration, assessing annually its independence and objectivity, taking into account relevant professional and regulatory The purpose of the Audit Committee the Committee is to make requirements and the relationship with the Auditor as a whole, including recommendations on the reporting, control, risk management and compliance the provision of any non-audit services: and aspects of the Directors and the Groups responsibilities, providing independent monitoring, guidance and challenge to Executive management in these areas.
reporting to the Board and identifying any matters on which the Committee considers that action or improvement is needed and making Through this process its aim is to ensure high standards of corporate recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
and regulatory reporting, controls, risk management and compliance.
The Committee believes that excellence in these areas enhances the effectiveness The Chairman of the Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond and reduces the risks of the business.
to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
The Committee has in its Terms of Reference the power to engage outside MEMBERSHIP advisors and to obtain its own independent external advice at the Companys expense, should it deem it necessary.
During 2012 no member of the Throughout 2012, the Committee comprised the independent Non-Executive Committee nor the Committee collectively, found it necessary to obtain such Directors of the Company.
The Board considers that each member of the separate advice beyond the advice that is directly provided to the Committee &90 by the external Auditor, Deloitte LLP or from Ernst & Young LLP who Chairman of the Committee is Mr. J. C. Nicholls.
He is a Chartered Accountant operate the Groups outsourced internal audit function.
"&:"" As part of corporate governance the Committee reviews its own that, Group Finance Director of Hanson plc."
He is Audit Committee Chairman performance annually and considers where improvements can be made.
The for Great Portland Estates plc and the Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee reviewed its own performance in July 2012 and the results of this Committee Chairman of DS Smith plc.
The other members of the Committee, review were reported to the Board.
Ms. J. E. Ashdown, Mr. M. Ewell and Mr. C. V. Geoghegan all have a wide range of business experience, which is evidenced by their biographical MEETINGS 60 0 The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee meets regularly throughout the year with four planned meetings Members of the Committee undertake ongoing training as required.
:90 is mostly cyclical although each member of the Committee may request reports RESPONSIBILITIES on matters of interest in addition to the regular items.
"90 The Committee operates under Terms of Reference which can be found on 540"" the Companys website and which are available on application to the Director, Mr. D. G. Robertson attended all four of the meetings by invitation of the 90& Committee Chairman."
The external Auditor attended meetings of the Committee the Committee and changes are recommended to the Board for approval.
The external Auditor has direct access to the Committee Chairman.
The Chairman of the Board and the other Executive Directors attend y{ certain of the meetings of the Committee at the invitation of the Committee monitoring the integrity of the Companys Accounts including its Annual 09& Report and Accounts and Interim Report: Committee without the Chairman of the Board and the Executive Directors being present on three occasions in 2012 and in March 2013 before the signing off of the reviewing the consistency of accounting policies, including any changes: 2012 Annual Report and Accounts.
reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk Ernst & Young LLP, which provides an outsourced internal audit function for the Group, management systems: are invited to meetings to present their reports and attended on two occasions in reviewing the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise 2012.
The Committee also meets with Ernst & Young LLP without the Executive 9&9 Directors present and did so on two occasions in 2012.
In addition the Committee or other matters: Chairman meets regularly with Ernst & Young LLP outside of the formal meetings.
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys outsourced WORK OF THE COMMITTEE internal audit function: reviewing the annual audit plan and receiving the Auditors Reports and, -.
&&{ the Companys response: with the assistance of reports received from management and the external &99 reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys external Auditor: &:90 considering and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the {$$ appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Companys external Auditor: $9 and receivable: SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Review of the year Corporate governance Accounts assessing the scope and effectiveness of the systems established to identify, services only where they are the most appropriate and cost-effective provider 9$90:: of the service, and where the provision of non-audit services does not impair, 92- or is not perceived to impair, the external Auditors independence and objectivity.
33 of the Business Review: It categorises such services between Auditor-permitted services, Auditor-excluded services and Auditor-authorised services.
The policy, which can be viewed on the reviewing that the going concern basis continued to be appropriate in the :&1&&&0039 context of the Groups funding and liquidity position: each category and sets out the criteria to be met and the internal approvals :9 required prior to the commencement of any Auditor-authorised services.
The external Auditor cannot be engaged to perform any assignment where the output &::]& is then subject to their review as external Auditor.
The Committee regularly monitoring and reviewing the plans, work and effectiveness of the internal reviews an analysis of all services provided by the external Auditor.
The policy &9 is reviewed annually by the Committee and is approved by the Board.
internal controls: The total sum invoiced to the Group by its external Auditor for non-audit services reviewing, with the external Auditor, its terms of engagement, its audit plans, the, -.
&1, -.. {-0,30 9&& The total sum invoiced by them for audit services in respect of the same period &.
0,30 reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external Auditor: and The external Auditor reports to the Committee each year on the actions taken to reviewing and making a recommendation concerning the re-appointment comply with professional and regulatory requirements and best practice designed of the external Auditor.
to ensure its independence, including the rotation of key members of the external The Chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the Board 0 ##9 on the key issues covered by the Committee, identifying any matters on which it 90 considers that action or improvement is needed and makes recommendations on 2.
In addition all Board members receive copies of the minutes In accordance with Partner rotation requirements a new lead audit partner is in the of each meeting.
Deloitte LLP was invited to propose for the global audit of SIG plc in 2005 and was appointed, having previously been the Auditor INTERNAL AUDIT of certain of the Groups operations from 2003, succeeding Arthur Andersen.
In August 2012, the Committee undertook its annual review of the The Internal Audit function provides independent assurance to Senior effectiveness of the external auditors.
A questionnaire was sent to the Finance Management and the Board on the adequacy and effectiveness of SIGs risk Directors of each of the Groups operating companies, which provided the management framework.
Internal Audit forms an independent and objective Committee with an overall view across the Group.
From this questionnaire &{ 9 9 internal controls are in place to manage those risks: and those controls are Deloitte LLP continues to provide an effective audit service.
The results of all assignments have been reported to the 0&9 Having reviewed and expressed satisfaction with the level of fees, independence, through this process prompt a detailed action plan and a follow up audit objectivity, expertise, resources and general effectiveness of Deloitte LLP, the 0 9 Committee did not consider it necessary to conduct a tender process for the &&90 appointment of the Companys Auditor although the Committee will continue to keep this under review.
The Committee recommends and the Board agrees The Audit Committee notes that the Company operates a control self assessment that a resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the CSA internal control process to support the internal audit process.
This Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
:y55|0 As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded EXTERNAL AUDITOR that it has acted in accordance with its Terms of Reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the external Auditor.
The Board is aware of the need to maintain an appropriate degree of independence and objectivity on the part of the Groups external Auditor.
The external Auditor reports to the Committee on the actions taken to comply with both professional and regulatory requirements and with best practice designed to ensure its independence.
Jonathan Nicholls Chairman of the Audit Committee The Group has an agreed policy with regard to the provision of audit and 4, -.
2 non-audit services by the external Auditor, which was operated during 2012.
The policy is based on the principles that they should undertake non-audit SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 !
