CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER SIG is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism in all of its activities.
At SIG, we believe that good governance comes from an effective Board which provides strong leadership to the Company and engages well with both management and stakeholders.
As an essential part of this commitment the Group supports the highest standards in corporate governance.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The Board considers that throughout the year under review the Company has complied with the governance rules and best practice provisions applying to UK listed companies as contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code of June 2010 as issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
2 y0 The Code can be accessed at www.
BOARD EVALUATION The Board is required, under the Code, to undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and 0, -.
0 5 of this Corporate Governance Report.
Differences in background, skills, experience and other qualities as well as gender will be considered in determining the optimum composition of the Board and the aim will be to balance them appropriately.
All SIG Board appointments are made on merit, with due regard to diversity.
& & &9 including, but not limited to those described above, in order to complement the range and balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
50]& y& set percentage representation targets for Board and Executive Committee membership as all appointments will be based on a spectrum of factors, including experience, skills and diversity including gender.
Currently the SIG Board comprises seven Directors, one of whom is female.
GOVERNANCE WITHIN SIG As Chairman, I take responsibility for ensuring that good governance is operated at SIG in order that we can maintain the highest standards of corporate governance to which we continually aspire.
The Board is accountable to the Companys Shareholders for good governance and this Report, the Directors yy4, 6y4-4.
& out in the Code applied within SIG.
# 0 0 Leslie Van fide Walle Chairman 4, -.
2 SIG plc : Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Review of the year Corporate governance Accounts THE BOARD all Directors will seek election or re-election at the Companys AGM each year.
Mr. S. R. Mitchell will be seeking election having been appointed to As at 31 December 2012, the Board was made up of eight members the Board since the last AGM.
To enable Shareholders to make an informed comprising the Chairman, three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive decision, the 2013 Notice of Annual General Meeting includes biographical 0 9 details and a statement as to why the Company believes that Directors 60 $09: performance of each individual continues to be effective and demonstrates Mr. S. R. Mitchell joined SIG on 1 December 2012 as Chief Executive commitment to the role.
Designate and was appointed a Director on 10 December 2012.
"Mr. C. J. Davies stepped down as Chief Executive and as a Director The terms of the Directors service contracts are disclosed in the, "", -."
20 00y0 yy450 : Chief Executive on 1 March 2013., 0 At 31 December 2012, SIG has one female Board member equating Directors service contracts and the letters of appointment of the.
"0""& 000 Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys, "", -."
The Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could BOARD PROCEDURES materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
9 The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as on an ad hoc basis as independence of those Directors who have other appointments in outside required by time-critical business needs.
The Board met formally on nine entities.
The Board considers that each of the Non-Executive Directors occasions during the year and individual attendance at those and the Board brings their own senior level of experience and expertise and that the balance 540 between Non-Executive and Executive representation encourages healthy supplied with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable them independent challenge to the Executive Directors and senior management.
Board and Committee papers are sent out seven days $% 9 before meetings take place.
expertise and knowledge and their wide-ranging experience and backgrounds The Directors are provided with opportunities for training to ensure that ensure that they can debate matters constructively in relation to both the they are kept up-to-date on relevant new legislation and regulation changes, development of strategy and performance against objectives set out by the corporate governance developments and changing commercial risks.
Biographical details of each of the Directors, which illustrate their is an agreed schedule of matters reserved to the Board for collective decision 60 which can be viewed on the Companys website at www.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and remuneration of both the Executive and Non-Executive Directors is detailed in the MATTERS RESERVED TO THE BOARD FOR :yy46440 COLLECTIVE DECISION The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive These matters include: is clearly established, has been agreed by the Board and is reviewed by the Company Secretary on a regular basis.
The Board approves any necessary determining the strategy and control of the Group: 0 amendments to the structure and capital of the Company and Group: leads the Board and sets its agenda, ensuring that all Directors, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, are able to make an effective contribution.
9 He ensures that there is a constructive relationship between the Executive oversight of the Groups internal controls: and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for all operational matters which include the implementation of the Group strategy 9 and policies approved by the Board.
Board membership and appointments: The Chairman at the time of his appointment met and continues to meet acquisitions and disposals above a prescribed level: and the independence criteria set out in the Code.
corporate governance matters and approval of Group policies and The Senior Independent Director is currently Mr. C. V. Geoghegan.
Under the Articles of Association all Directors are subject to election at the Annual General Meeting AGM immediately following their appointment and to re-election every three years.
However in accordance with the Code, SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD PROCEDURES CONTINUED &9 duties.
Appropriate training is available to all Directors on appointment and on 9 an ongoing basis as required.
including the Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
"The Board will The Terms of Reference for each of the Board Committees are available on 90"" request from the Company Secretary or on the SIG website www."
example, during the year, Board Committees were established to approve bank documentation and the preliminary and interim results announcements.
"DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS To enable the Board to perform its duties effectively all Directors have full access to all relevant information and to the services of the Company Secretary whose ""."
-- responsibility it is for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The avoid a situation where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for &:0 the Board.
There is an agreed procedure whereby Directors wishing to take independent legal advice in the furtherance of their duties may do so at the where appropriate, if a companys Articles of Association permit and Companys expense.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Shareholders have approved appropriate amendments.
Board procedures are followed including the formal minuting of any unresolved Procedures have been put in place for the disclosure by Directors of any such concerns that any Director may have in connection with the operation of the Company.
During the year there were no such unresolved issues.
These procedures allow for the imposition of limits or conditions resignation, if a Non-Executive Director had any such concerns, the Chairman & 0 would invite him to provide a written statement for circulation to the Board.
These procedures have been applied during the year and are now included as a regular item for consideration by the Board at its meetings.
ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees during the year 2.
{ Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Meetings eligible to attend Meetings eligible to attend Meetings eligible to attend Meetings eligible to attend J. E. Ashdown C. J. Davies N A N A M. Ewell N A C. V. Geoghegan S. R. Mitchell N A N A N A J. C. Nicholls D. G. Robertson N A N A N A L. Van fide Walle N A N A Meeting attended Absent Chairman && 0] 0 9:.
Directors do not participate in meetings when matters relating to them are discussed.
The Chairman also holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
The Senior Independent Director also meets with the other Independent Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present.
The Board arranges to hold at least two Board meetings each year at Group business locations both in the UK and Mainland Europe to help all Board members gain a deeper understanding of the business.
This also provides Senior Managers from across the Group the opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the Directors on more informal occasions.
Board members also attend Divisional and Group management conferences whenever possible.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Review of the year Corporate governance Accounts BOARD EFFECTIVENESS of investors views through distribution and regular discussion of analysts and :90 The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is vital to the success of the feedback from major Shareholders is reported to the Board by the Chairman Company and, during the year, the Board continued its ongoing evaluation and the Finance Director and discussed at its meetings.
Formal presentations process to assess its performance and that of its three principal Committees.
are made to institutional Shareholders following the announcement of the Companys annual and interim results.
Contact is also maintained, where In December 2011, as part of this programme, the Board commissioned Equity appropriate, with Shareholders to discuss overall remuneration plans and Communications Limited, an independent third party, to prepare a tailored Board policies.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are available Evaluation process.
This was facilitated by way of questionnaire process with the to discuss governance and strategy with major Shareholders if requested emphasis, in addition to the evaluation of the performance of the Board and its 9 Committees, being targeted at identifying the future needs of the Board, including 0] Board structure, succession planning, induction programmes and the Boards to correspondence received from Shareholders on a wide range of issues approach to risk and strategy.
Each Director completed their questionnaire and and also participate in a number of surveys and questionnaires submitted these were then evaluated by the independent facilitator who then prepared a by a variety of investor research bodies.
Although the other Non-Executive report for the Chairman.
The Chairman and the facilitator presented the results Directors are not at present asked to meet the Companys Shareholders, of the evaluation to the Board, which discussed the results of the evaluation they regularly attend presentations of the annual and interim results.
in detail at its March 2012 meeting.
The discussions then focused on how 9 The Board recognises that the Annual General Meeting is the principal forum 0 &9 for dialogue with private Shareholders and all Shareholders are invited to was a worthwhile exercise and that the Directors had participated in an open attend.
All Directors attend the Annual General Meeting and are available to and frank basis.
In December 2012 by way of follow up to the evaluation process answer any questions that Shareholders may wish to raise.
The Notice of completed in 2012 an effectiveness survey of the Board and its Committees Meeting is sent to Shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Audit, Remuneration and Nominations was undertaken.
The survey was The Company provides a facility for Shareholders to vote electronically and internally facilitated and carried out by questionnaire.
Each Director including the the Form of Proxy provides Shareholders with the option of withholding their Chairman was asked to place a score against a variety of questions and to make vote on a resolution if they so wish.
Shareholders vote on a show of hands, additional comments where appropriate.
The survey also sought to identify the unless a poll is validly called and after each such vote the number of Proxy extent to which the issues raised in the previous evaluation process had been votes received for or against the resolution together with the number of addressed.
A summary report collating and analysing the responses has been abstentions is announced.
The Company Secretary ensures that votes are produced and was presented to the Board meeting held on 1 March 2013 properly received and recorded.
Details of the Proxies lodged on all at which it was debated.
A number of action points were agreed.
resolutions are published on the Companys website immediately after the Annual General Meeting www.
The Chairman regularly reviews and agrees with each Director their training needs and development needs.
During the year a number of the Directors attended THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE training courses and seminars on subjects and topics including those that the Chairman 9&&& The Remuneration Committee operates under written Terms of Reference, and effectiveness of the Director.
Further training is programmed for 2013. which are consistent with current best practice.
The Committee comprises The Non-Executive Directors, chaired by the Senior Independent Director, meet only independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Committee once a year without the Chairman present to assess his performance, taking into attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions account the views of the Executive Directors.
that might be raised on the Committees activities.
The Committees Report 4, 60 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its Shareholders, including its employee Shareholders, to ensure that its strategy The Nominations Committee operates under written Terms of Reference, and performance is understood.
This is achieved principally through the which are consistent with current best practice.
Its principal duty is the Annual Report and the Annual General Meeting.
The Groups annual and 9% interim results, as well as all announcements issued to the London Stock and Non-Executive vacancies on the Board.
Members of the Committee are Exchange, are published on the Companys website.
The Company issues not involved in matters affecting their own positions.
The Nominations regular trading updates to the market and these, together with copies of Committee comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive and the independent the presentations made to analysts, can also be found on the Companys Non-Executive Directors.
The meetings of the Committee are chaired by the website.
In addition, a range of other corporate information is available Non-Executive Chairman.
The Committee meets as appropriate but at least to investors on the Companys website www.
0 90 members, at least two of whom shall be independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and Head of Investor Relations are primarily responsible for direct investor relations.
The Board is kept informed SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE CONTINUED RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL & The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups system of internal control Board and makes recommendations concerning the re-appointment of any and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It is the role of management to implement the $% 99 Boards policies on risk and control through the design and operation of appropriate 9& 0 internal control systems.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate in recognising the impact of the Davies Report ensured that skills, experience, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can therefore only provide potential and overall balance of the Board, as well as diversity, including gender, reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
were fully considered in relation to the Board appointments made during the year.
The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups The Committee retains external search and selection consultants as appropriate.
internal control systems, accounting policies and practices, standards of risk The Committee also advises the Board on succession planning for Executive Board management and risk management procedures and compliance controls.
appointments although the Board itself is responsible for succession generally.
The key elements of the existing systems of internal control, which accord In general terms, when considering candidates for appointment as Directors &:1, --53&{ of the Company, the Nominations Committee, in conjunction with the Board drafts a 990& OPEN CULTURE be given to the existing experience, knowledge and background of Board members as &:0 The Board considers that the Group operates a risk-aware culture with 9 has been agreed with the Board, the Committee would then work 09 with an appropriate external search and selection agency to identify candidates of problems and issues, so that appropriate action is taken quickly to minimise the appropriate calibre and with whom an initial candidate shortlist could be agreed.
any impact on the business.
The agency is required to present for consideration by the Committee a list of ONGOING PROCESS FOR RISK IDENTIFICATION, potential candidates comprising, inter alia, candidates of both genders and of diverse EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT backgrounds.
The drawing up of this list is entirely consistent between external and internal candidates.
Shortlisted candidates would then be invited to interview with During 2012 the Board conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups members of the Committee and, if recommended by the Committee, would system of internal control.
This review covered all controls including operational, be invited to meet the entire Board before any decision is taken relating to &90& the appointment.
This process was followed in identifying Mr. S. R. Mitchell 0&{ as a candidate for appointment as Group Chief Executive.
the Group Board maintains an overall corporate risk register, the content of Following the appointment of a new Director, the Chairman in conjunction which is determined by regular discussions between senior management, Group with the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that a full, formal and Board and the Audit Committee.
This is also formally reviewed twice yearly by tailored induction to the Company is given.
Such an induction programme the Audit Committee and discussed with the Board.
The risk register contains was operated for Mr. Mitchell.
9:9 The proposed activities for the Committee in 2013 will be to continue to likelihood at both a gross level before consideration of mitigating controls and monitor and assess the Boards composition and diversity, longer term succession net level after consideration of mitigating controls.
This provides the Board with planning and potential further recruitment of Non-Executive Directors.
the opportunity to review the level of risk that the business is prepared to accept.
The register also contains the assurance provided over current key mitigating AUDIT COMMITTEE 0]9 &9 The Audit Committee operates under written Terms of Reference, which monitored closely until fully implemented.
This is summarised in the Business are consistent with current best practice.
The Committee comprises only Review on pages 30 to 33: independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Committee the risk management process is cascaded through the Group, with attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions operating subsidiary boards responsible for maintaining their own risk that might be raised on the Committees activities.
registers and assessing their control systems: The Group does not have a dedicated internal audit function.
The Board 9& &0, --4 recommended and the Board accepted that the Groups internal control and formal authorisation procedures for all investments with clear guidelines risk management systems would be further strengthened by the appointment on appraisal techniques and success criteria: of an outsourced internal audit function and Ernst & Young LLP was appointed 9, --4:0 9& :y4-4.0 9 SIG plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Review of the year Corporate governance Accounts ONGOING PROCESS FOR RISK IDENTIFICATION, management and the Board.
The Board considers that none of the areas of EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT CONTINUED improvement identied constitute a significant failing or weakness.
The Board considers that the information that it receives is sufficient to enable it to f a comprehensive system of financial reporting.
An annual budget for each review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls in accordance operating company is prepared in detail and approved by the Chief Executive.
with the internal control guidance for Directors on the Code issued by the The Board approves the overall Groups budget and plans.
Monthly actual Turnbull Review Group.
results are reported against budget and prior year and the forecast for the FINANCIAL REPORTING year is revised where necessary.
Any significant changes and adverse variances are questioned by the Board and remedial action is taken where In addition to the general internal controls and risk management processes appropriate.
There is weekly cash and treasury reporting to the Finance described above, the Group also has specic internal controls and risk management Director and periodic reporting to the Board on the Groups tax and systems to govern the financial reporting process and preparation of the annual treasury position: financial statements.
These systems include clear policies and procedures for f provision to management and the Board of relevant, accurate and timely ensuring that the Groups financial reporting processes and the preparation information including relevant key performance indicators, based on of its consolidated accounts comply with all relevant regulatory reporting reliable management information systems which are continually being requirements.
These are comprehensively detailed in the Group Finance Manual, improved and updated: which is used by the businesses in the preparation of their results.
Financial control requirements are also set out in the Group Finance Manual.
f monthly reports to the Board from the Chief Executive and Finance Director: WHISTLEBLOWING f regular business unit management Board meetings periodically attended by the Chief Executive or Finance Director, Executive Board meetings The Group has in place a Whistleblowing Policy under which employees and Company Board: meetings at which existing, new and evolving may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial operational, financial and other risks are discussed, and appropriate actions reporting or other matters.
A copy of this policy is available on the Companys to manage these risks are agreed and followed up: website.
The Company also has in place a condential hotline which is f discussion of any significant issues or control weaknesses identied and, available to all of the Groups employees and provides a facility for them to if considered necessary, their inclusion in reports to the Executive Board bring matters to managements attention on a condential basis.
The hotline and Company Board: is provided by an independent third party.
During 2012 these systems were operational throughout the Group.
A full investigation is carried out on all f operating units, both trading sites and central functions, complete matters raised and a report is prepared for feedback to the complainant.
The comprehensive Control Self Assessment CSA Questionnaires every Company Secretary is required to report to the Audit Committee biannually six months.
These questionnaires require managers to respond to on the integrity of these procedures, the state of ongoing investigations and questions about procedures and controls in the unit for which they have conclusions reached.
During 2012 Group employees used this system to responsibility.
These are analysed by local and Group Management and all raise concerns about a number of separate issues, all of which were potential risks or control failure issues which are raised by the CSA process appropriately responded to.
are classed in terms of escalation levels with any significant Group level issues being reported to the Audit Committee: and The risk framework, as outlined above, gives reasonable assurance that the structure of controls in operation is appropriate to the Groups situation and f a structured and approved programme of internal audit visits with the that there is an acceptable level of risk throughout the business.
implementation of recommendations made being monitored as part of a continuous programme of improvement.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and that this ANNUAL ASSESSMENT OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of SYSTEMS OF INTERNAL CONTROL the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board and Audit Committee requested, received and reviewed reports from senior management, its advisers, the outsourced internal audit function and our external auditor in order to assist the Board with their annual assessment of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls.
Richard Monro Through the ongoing processes outlined above, areas for improvement in Company Secretary internal controls are continuously identied and action plans are devised.
6 March 2013 Progress towards completion of actions is regularly monitored by SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59
