Directors report | Governance | Corporate governance 38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE I am keenly aware of the value to the business of an effective board.
GOOD GOVERNANCE IS NOT A key aspect of ensuring the boards effectiveness is the annual board and committee evaluation process and this year the evaluation was facilitated externally by an independent consultant.
This JUST A MATTER FOR THE exercise produced some valuable insights and we outline the process and some of the key outcomes on page 41 of this report.
BOARD AND OUR AIM ALWAYS The Company recognises the need for, and desirability of, diversity on the board and I have worked with the Nomination committee IS TO FOSTER A CULTURE OF during the year to review the evolution of the board.
As part of our succession planning, and as I mentioned in my statement on page15, STRONG GOVERNANCE I am delighted to welcome to the board Emma Adamo, who joined as a non-executive director at the conclusion of the AGM in December 2011, following the retirement of Galen Weston.
appointment adds diversity to the board and the consequent range of perspectives will undoubtedly have a positive effect on the boards deliberations.
We are reviewing our corporate governance practices in light of Chairmans foreword I am pleased to introduce this report on the work of the board over the updated version of the UK Corporate Governance Code which was published in September 2012 the 2012 Code.
Although the the last year.
Effective corporate governance is central to the groups ability to operate successfully on a global basis and, as a board, 2012 Code will first apply to companies with financial years commencing on or after 1 October 2012, we will give consideration to we take seriously our responsibility for setting high standards of accountability and ethical behaviour.
Good governance is not just reporting early under the 2012 Code in our annual report next year.
a matter for the board, however, and our aim always is to foster In the following pages we describe the approach the board has a culture of strong governance throughout the group.
adopted to governing the group.
The report is intended to give shareholders a clear picture of the groups governance arrangements and how those arrangements have operated during the year.
Charles Sinclair Chairman Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code provide shareholders with an understanding of how the Company The principal governance rules applying to UK companies listed has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the on the London Stock Exchange are contained in the UK Corporate Code.
The board considers that the Company has, throughout the Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council and year ended 15 September 2012, complied with the relevant published in June 2010 the Code which is available from the FRC provisions set out in the Code, with the following exceptions: website www.
This corporate governance report aims to Code provision Status Explanation B.
3.2 The terms and Galen Weston had not entered into The board of Associated British Foods plc considered it appropriate conditions of appointment of a formal letter of appointment.
due to his relationship with the Companys ultimate holding non-executive directors should company, Wittington Investments Limited of which he was a Non-compliance with this provision be made available for director and shareholder.
Galen Weston received no fees, nor ended on 9 December 2011 when inspection.
was he reimbursed for any expenses incurred for performing his Galen Weston retired as a director.
role as a non-executive director of Associated British Foods plc.
D. 2.1 The Chairman should Charles Sinclair is both Chairman The board of Associated British Foods plc considers that not chair the Remuneration and chairman of the Remuneration Charles Sinclair, due to his experience, is best suited to chair this committee.
No director has any involvement in the determination of his own remuneration.
The board believes that the Company has maintained robust governance while at the same time benefiting from having Charles Sinclair as the chairman of the Remuneration committee.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Corporate governance 39 EFFECTIVE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IS CENTRAL TO THE GROUPS ABILITY TO OPERATE SUCCESSFULLY ON A GLOBAL BASIS AND, AS A BOARD, WE TAKE SERIOUSLY OUR RESPONSIBILITY FOR SETTING HIGH STANDARDS OF ACCOUNTABILITY AND ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR.
The board Board composition As a board, we are collectively responsible to the Companys At the date of this report, the board comprised eight directors: shareholders for the direction and oversight of the Company to Chairman ensure its long-term success.
The board met regularly throughout Charles Sinclair the year to approve the groups strategic objectives, to lead the group within a framework of effective controls which enable risk to Executive directors be assessed and managed and to ensure that sufficient resources George Weston Chief Executive are available to meet the objectives set.
John Bason Finance Director The board has agreed the specific business and governance matters Non-executive directors which are reserved for its decision to help it discharge these Emma Adamo responsibilities and oversee control of the Companys affairs.
This Tim Clarke schedule of matters reserved for the boards approval, which was Javier Ferrn reviewed and updated during the year, includes: Lord Jay Peter Smith t annual business strategy and objectives, budget and forecasts: Galen Weston resigned from his role as a non-executive director of t monitoring delivery of the groups business strategy the Company with effect from the close of the 2011 annual general andobjectives: meeting held on 9 December 2011.
Emma Adamo was appointed t changes to the Companys capital, management or control as a director with effect from the close of the same meeting on structures: 9December 2011. t dividend policy and dividend recommendation: With the exception of Emma Adamo, the board considers that the non-executive directors are independent in character and judgement t treasury policies: and that they are each free from any business or other relationships which would materially interfere with the exercise of their independent t trading statements, interim results, interim management statements, final results, annual report and accounts: judgement.
Emma Adamo is not regarded as independent in view of her relationship with Wittington Investments Limited.
Biographical t the overall system of internal control and risk management: and related information about the directors is set out on pages 36 and 37. t major capital projects, corporate actions or related actions andinvestment: Chairman and Chief Executive t communications policy including procedures for the release The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separately of price-sensitive information: held and the division of their responsibilities is clearly established, set out in writing, and agreed by the board to ensure that no one has t changes to the structure, size and composition of the board: unfettered powers of decision.
The Chairman, Charles Sinclair, is t appointment of directors and the Company Secretary: and responsible for the operation and leadership of the board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive, t material changes to pension plans or the introduction George Weston, is responsible for leading and managing the groups of newschemes.
business within the authorities delegated by the board and the Certain specific responsibilities are delegated to the board implementation of board strategy and policy.
committees, notably the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Senior Independent Director committees, which operate within clearly defined terms of Tim Clarke is the Companys recognised Senior Independent reference, reporting regularly to the board.
The role of the Senior Independent Director is to act as a please see Board committees section below.
sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for other directors where necessary.
He is also available to shareholders should a need arise to convey concerns to the board which they have been unable to convey through the Chairman or through the Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Corporate governance 40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED executive directors.
During the year, led by the senior independent Board committees director, the non-executive directors have met once without the The board has established three principal board committees, to presence of the Chairman.
which it has delegated certain of its responsibilities.
They are the Nomination committee, the Audit committee, and the Remuneration The non-executive directors committee.
The membership, responsibilities and activities of these The non-executive directors play a key role in providing a solid committees are described later in this corporate governance report foundation for good corporate governance and ensure that no and, in the case of the Remuneration committee, in the individual or group dominates the boards decision-making.
They Remuneration report on page 52.
Membership of these committees each occupy or have occupied senior positions in industry or public is reviewed annually.
Minutes of committee meetings are made life and bring a valuable external view to the boards deliberations available to all directors on a timely basis.
through their experience and insight from other sectors enabling them to contribute significantly to board decision-making.
The formal The full written terms of reference for the Nomination, Audit and letters of appointment of non-executive directors are available for Remuneration committees, each of which was reviewed and inspection at the Companys registered office.
updated during the year, are available on the Companys website www.
co. uk and hard copies are available on request.
Re-election of directors In accordance with the Codes recommendations, all directors will Information ow be proposed for election or re-election at the 2012 annual general The Company Secretary manages the provision of information to the meeting to be held in December.
board at appropriate times, in consultation with the Chairman and Chief Executive.
In addition to formal meetings, the Chairman and Board meetings Chief Executive maintain regular contact with all directors.
The The board held ten meetings during the year.
Periodically, board Chairman also holds informal meetings with non-executive directors, meetings take place overseas, and during the year under review, without any of the executives being present to discuss any issues one of the meetings and a Remuneration committee meeting were affecting the group, if this is thought necessary.
Regular management held in Madrid.
The board visited the Primark store in Majadahonda, updates are sent to directors to keep the non-executive directors Madrid, providing the non-executive directors in particular with the informed of events throughout the group between board meetings opportunity to extend their knowledge of the group and to meet and to ensure that they are kept fully informed of the latest issues local management and other employees.
Non-executive directors affecting the group.
may also make additional visits to our overseas businesses through the year.
During the year under review Charles Sinclair visited Illovo Conicts of interest procedure in South Africa where he had meetings with management and The Company has procedures in place to deal with the situation reviewed its operations.
where a director has a conflict of interest.
As part of this process, the board: Senior executives below board level are invited, when appropriate, to attend board meetings and to make presentations on the results and t considers each conict situation separately on its strategies of their business units.
Papers for board and committee particularfacts: meetings are generally provided to directors for board and committee t considers the conict situation in conjunction with the rest meetings a week in advance.
This allows any director who is unable of the conicted directors duties under the 2006 Act: to attend a meeting to provide comments to the Chairman, the chairman of the relevant committee or the Company Secretary, t keeps records and board minutes as to authorisations granted who will then relay these comments to the relevant meeting.
by directors and the scope of any approvals given: and The attendance of the directors at board and committee meetings t regularly reviews conict authorisation.
during the year to 15 September 2012 is shown in the table below.
The board has complied with these procedures during the year.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board committee committee committee Charles Sinclair 10 10 1 1 5 5 George Weston 10 10 John Bason 10 10 1 Emma Adamo 7 7 Tim Clarke 10 10 4 4 1 1 5 5 2 Javier Ferrn 9 10 1 1 4 5 Lord Jay 10 10 4 4 1 1 5 5 Peter Smith 10 10 4 4 1 1 5 5 3 Galen Weston 1 3 1 Emma Adamo was appointed as a non-executive director with effect from the conclusion of the annual general meeting held on 9 December 2011.
2 Javier Ferrn was unable to attend one board meeting and a Remuneration committee meeting due to other business and personal commitments.
However, he reviewed the relevant papers and provided comments to the Chairman asappropriate.
3 Galen Weston retired as a non-executive director at the conclusion of the annual general meeting held on 9 December 2011.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Corporate governance 41 Board business Board performance evaluation During the financial year, key activities of the board included: An evaluation to assess the performance of the board as a whole, its committees and that of the individual directors is conducted on Strategy An annual meeting focusing on group an annual basis with the aim of improving the effectiveness of strategy.
the board and its members and the performance of the group.
Governance Approving the Companys full year and This years review was undertaken by an independent external and risk interim results.
facilitator, Stephen Williams, who provided feedback to the Chairman.
Stephen Williams was previously company secretary Making a recommendation on the 2011 and general counsel of Unilever plc, senior independent director of final dividend and approving the 2012 Bunzl plc and Arriva plc and is currently senior independent director interim dividend.
of Whitbread plc and a non-executive director of Croda International Carrying out an annual review of the PLC.
He has extensive experience of facilitating board evaluations.
material financial and non-financial risks Independently of his services as a board facilitator, he has a facing the groups businesses.
consultancy appointment with Spencer Stuart.
The Chairman sat on an advisory board of that company.
Receiving regular divisional food safety updates and an annual groupwide update.
The review took place in the final quarter of the financial year.
A discussion guide was prepared and circulated to each director Considering the report from the external and the Company Secretary.
This included eight topics which facilitator following the board performance formed the basic agenda around which each discussion was evaluation exercise.
framed and these were as follows: Performance Receiving regular reports to the board t board structure, organisation and dynamics, including the mix monitoring from the Chief Executive.
of skills and knowledge, diversity, how the board works as a Approving the group budget for the unit and the tone set by the Chairman and Chief Executive: 2012 13 financial year.
t board efficiency and effectiveness, including individual Undertaking goodwill and property, plant performance, clarity of the purpose, direction and values of and equipment impairment reviews.
the Company, quality of leadership and key board relationships: Receiving, on a rolling basis, t risk management and governance: management presentations from t strategic review and resource allocation: each of the group business areas.
t people issues and succession planning: Receiving feedback on meetings held with institutional investors.
t business performance, including level and quality of reportingmeasures: Corporate Receiving regular management reports responsibility on health, safety and environment issues.
t board committees: and Receiving update reports on ethical t key issues for 2013. sourcing processes.
The external facilitator undertook a confidential, unattributable Receiving an update on the groups interview with each director and the Company Secretary based on anti-bribery policy and procedures.
Following the meetings, the external facilitator produced a written report which was discussed with each of the People Appointed Emma Adamo as a Chairman, Senior Independent Director and the Chief Executive, non-executive director.
before being sent to board members and discussed at the following Consideration of senior succession board meeting.
There was a strong sense of progress in implementing proposals Various Receiving updates on pension-related arising out of the 2011 evaluation.
Meeting management team at Majadahonda Primark store in Madrid, Spain.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Corporate governance 42 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Actions implemented arising from 2011 evaluation include: Engaging with shareholders The board is committed to maintaining and improving dialogue Objective with shareholders so that the Companys objectives and those of shareholders are understood.
Value creation Investment returns reviewed.
The Company communicates its achievements and prospects to Strategy development A review of longer term growth its shareholders in an accurate and timely manner.
communicates with its shareholders by way of the interim and Risk management Amount of time devoted to risk issues annual report and accounts, with significant matters relating to the on the board agenda increased.
trading or development of the business disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange announcements and by press release and Succession planning Continuing.
postings on the Companys website.
Based on the results of the evaluation process in 2012, the board The Company continues to promote effective engagement with its considered that overall it was operating effectively and that each of shareholders and on behalf of the board the Chairman, Chief Executive the directors continues to make a valuable contribution with proper and Finance Director have met institutional shareholders and analysts commitment to their respective roles.
The boards principal on a regular basis throughout the year to discuss the Companys committees were also judged to be functioning efficiently operation.
At each board meeting, the directors are briefed on shareholder andeffectively.
meetings that have taken place and on the feedback received.
A list of recommended action points was drawn up and agreed, The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders in the which is being implemented under the direction of the Chairman event that communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive or including actions set out in the table below.
Finance Director has failed to resolve concerns or where such contact is inappropriate.
Areas identied for action from the 2012 evaluation include: Annual general meeting Objective The annual general meeting AGM will be held on Friday, 7 December Synergy Extend the search for and reporting on 2012 at 11.00 am at TUC Congress Centre in London.
The board synergy within the existing group.
views the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with private Strategy Continuing review of longer term shareholders in particular for whom it provides the opportunity growth opportunities.
to hear about the general development of the business and to ask questions of the Chairman and, through him, the chairmen of the Risk management Additional understanding of key committees and other directors.
The practice has been for a non-financial risks in our businesses.
short film to be shown at the meeting explaining a particular area Succession planning The need for diversity throughout the of the groups business.
At this years AGM, the film focuses on group, acknowledging its increasing the groups Twinings Ovaltine business.
The Notice of meeting for the 2012 AGM, which sets out in full the resolutions for consideration by shareholders together with explanatory Board development notes, has been sent to shareholders and is also available on the The Chairman, with the support of the Company Secretary, is Investors section of the Companys website www.
Any responsible for the induction of new directors and the ongoing member attending the annual general meeting has the right to ask development of directors.
The Company must cause to be answered any such Emma Adamo, who joined the board as a non-executive director on question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting, 9 December 2011, undertook a comprehensive, tailored induction unless it is not in the interests of the Company or the good order of programme which included visits to a large number of the groups the meeting to do so, or if to do so would involve the disclosure of businesses in the UK and overseas.
She also received a directors confidential information.
Shareholders attending the meeting will be information pack providing background information on the advised of the number of proxy votes lodged for each resolution.
All Companys businesses and operations, including matters relating resolutions will be voted on by poll and the results will be announced to corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
to the London Stock Exchange and posted on the Companys website as soon as practicable following the meeting.
Training and development is provided to all directors at board and committee meetings.
In addition to any third-party training and Accountability and audit development which all the directors have undertaken on their own The board is required by the UK Corporate Governance Code to behalf or as part of other non-executive directorships and business present a balanced and understandable assessment of the roles during the year under review, board members received regular Companys position and prospects.
In relation to this requirement, corporate governance updates in their board packs and made visits reference is made to the statement of directors responsibilities for to group operations on a regular basis.
preparing the financial statements set out on page 62 of this annual report and accounts.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Corporate governance 43 The independent auditors report on page 63 includes a statement Governance by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
The board The Nomination committee comprises a minimum of three recognises that its responsibility to present a balanced and members at any time, a majority of whom are independent understandable assessment extends to interim and other non-executive directors.
A quorum shall consist of two members price-sensitive public reports, reports to regulators, and being either two independent non-executive directors or one information required to be presented by law.
independent non-executive director and the Chairman.
Business model Executive directors, members of senior management and other The Operating review on pages 16 to 29 includes a description parties may be invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
of the Companys business model for sustainable growth for each The Chairman does not chair the Nomination committee when division of the business.
This provides an explanation of the basis it is dealing with the appointment of his successor.
In these on which the group generates value and preserves it over the long circumstances the committee is chaired by an independent term and its strategy for delivering its objectives.
non-executive director elected by the remaining members.
Going concern The committee may take independent professional advice on any After making enquiries the directors have a reasonable expectation matters covered by its terms of reference at the Companys expense.
that the Company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The committee chairman reports the outcome of meetings to the board.
Accordingly, and in accordance with the guidance contained in the document titled Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for The committees effectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis Directors of UK Companies 2009 published by the FRC, they as part of the boards performance evaluation process.
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual The full terms of reference of the Nomination committee, which report and accounts.
were reviewed and updated during the year, can be viewed on the Nomination committee report Investors section of the Companys website www.
Members During the year and at the date of this report: Meetings The committee met once during the year under review.
Charles Sinclair Chairman Activities during the year Tim Clarke The principal actions undertaken by the committee in the period under review are set out below.
Javier Ferrn Emma Adamo was appointed as a non-executive director from the Lord Jay conclusion of the Companys last AGM held on 9 December 2011.
Peter Smith Ms Adamo is a director of Wittington Investments Limited, the Companys majority shareholder, and she has been appointed to represent this shareholding on the board.
She replaces Galen Key duties Weston in this role following his retirement as a non-executive In accordance with its terms of reference, the Nomination director also at the conclusion of the Companys 2011 AGM.
For committees key duties include: this reason, neither an external search agency nor open advertising t leading the process for board appointments and making was used in Ms Adamos appointment.
Prior to her appointment, recommendations to the board: Ms Adamo had meetings with the Chairman, the Chief Executive and with the Nomination committee.
She was then invited to meet t regularly reviewing the board structure, size and composition the full board and attended a number of board meetings.
Ms Adamo including the skills, knowledge, independence, experience was educated at Stanford University and INSEAD in France.
She and diversity, recommending any changes: spent six years working for George Weston Limited in Canada.
t considering plans for orderly succession for appointments The committee reviewed the time needed to fulfil the roles of to the board and to senior management to maintain an Chairman, Senior Independent Director and non-executive director appropriate balance of skills and experience within the and was satisfied, following the conclusion of the annual board Company and to ensure progressive refreshment of the board: evaluation, that all members of the board are devoting sufficient t keeping under review the leadership needs of the group, time to their duties.
both executive and non-executive, to ensure the continued ability of the group organisation to compete efficiently in the marketplace: and t before any appointment is made by the board, evaluating the skills, knowledge, experience, independence and diversity on the board and, in light of this evaluation, preparing a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Corporate governance 44 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Audit committee report The committee structure requires the inclusion of one financially Members qualified member as recognised by the Consultative Committee of During the year and at the date of this report: Accountancy Bodies with recent and relevant financial experience.
Currently, the committee chairman fulfils this requirement.
All Peter Smith Chairman committee members are expected to be financially literate and to have an understanding of the following areas: Tim Clarke t the principles of, and developments in, financial reporting Lord Jay including the applicable accounting standards and statements of recommended practice: Key duties t key aspects of the Companys operations including corporate In accordance with its terms of reference, the Audit committees policies and the groups internal control environment: key duties include: t matters which may inuence the presentation of accounts t monitoring the integrity of the groups financial statements and key gures: and any formal announcements relating to the Companys performance, reviewing significant financial reporting t the principles of, and developments in, company law, sectorjudgements contained in them before their submission specic laws and other relevant corporate legislation: to the board for approval: t the role of internal and external auditing and risk management: and t reviewing the groups internal financial controls, including the t the regulatory framework for the groups businesses.
policies and overall process for assessing established systems of internal financial control and timeliness and effectiveness of The committee invites the Group Finance Director, Group Financial corrective action taken by management: Controller, Director of Financial Control and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend its meetings in full, although it t overseeing the groups arrangements for the prevention and reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
detection of fraud, and whistleblowing: Other senior managers are invited to present such reports as are t monitoring and reviewing the role and effectiveness of the required for the committee to discharge its duties.
groups internal audit function in the context of the groups During the year, the committee held three meetings with the overall financial risk management system: and external auditors without any executive member of the board t overseeing the relationship with the groups external auditors, beingpresent.
including reviewing and monitoring their objectivity and The committee has unrestricted access to Company documents independence, and agreeing the scope of their work and and information, as well as to employees of the Company and fees paid to them for audit and non-audit services.
Governance The committee may take independent professional advice on The Audit committee comprises a minimum of three members, all any matters covered by its terms of reference at the of whom are independent non-executive directors of the Company.
Appointments are for a period The committee chairman reports the outcome of meetings to of three years after which they are subject to annual review, the board.
extendable by two further three-year periods so long as members continue to be independent.
The committees effectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as part of the boards performance evaluation process.
The full terms of reference of the Audit committee, which were reviewed and updated during the year, can be viewed on the Investors section of the Companys website www.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Corporate governance 45 Meetings Typically, the committee will approve the use of the external auditors The Audit committee met four times during the year and has to provide: accounting advice and training: employee benefit plan an agenda linked to events in the groups financial calendar.
audits: corporate responsibility, IT and other assurance services: due diligence in respect of acquisitions and disposals: certain specified Activities during the year tax services including tax compliance, tax planning and related In order to fulfil its terms of reference, the Audit committee receives implementation advice: and certain other services when it is in the and reviews presentations and reports from the groups senior best interests of the Company to do so and they can be undertaken management, consulting as necessary with the external auditors.
No individually significant During the year, the committee formally reviewed draft interim non-audit assignments that would require disclosure were undertaken in the financial year.
and annual reports and associated announcements.
These reviewsconsidered: The Company has a policy that any recruits hired directly from the t the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the external auditors must be pre-approved by the Group HR Director, groups financial statements and proposed changes to them: and the Group Finance Director or Group Financial Controller.
t the integrity of the financial statements, including a review of The Audit committee has formally reviewed the independence of its auditors.
KPMG Audit Plc have provided a letter confirming important accounting issues, areas of complexity and significant financial reporting judgements: that they believe they remain independent within the meaning of the regulations on this matter and in accordance with their t litigation and contingent liabilities affecting the group: and professional standards.
t potential tax contingencies and the groups compliance with To fulfil its responsibility to ensure the independence of the external statutory tax obligations.
auditors, the Audit committee reviewed: The committee is required to assist the board to fulfil its t changes in external audit executives in the audit plan for the responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the current year: control environment, controls over financial reporting and the groups compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
To fulfil these t a report from the external auditors describing their duties, the committee reviewed: arrangements to identify, report and manage any conicts of interest: and t the external auditors management letters and audit highlights memoranda: t the extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
t internal audit reports on key audit areas and significant deficiencies in the financial control environment: To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the committee reviewed: t reports on the systems of internal financial controls and risk management: and t the external auditors fullment of the agreed audit plan and variations from it: t reports on fraud perpetrated against the group.
t reports highlighting the major issues that arose during the The Audit committee is responsible for the development, course of the audit: implementation and monitoring of policies and procedures on the use of the external auditors for non-audit services, in accordance t feedback from the businesses evaluating the performance with professional and regulatory requirements.
These policies are of each assigned audit team: and kept under review to meet the objective of ensuring that the group t a report from the Audit Inspection Unit of the Financial benefits in a cost-effective manner from the cumulative knowledge Reporting Council FRC.
and experience of its auditors whilst also ensuring that the auditors maintain the necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
Consequently, any non-audit work to be undertaken by the auditor in excess of 300,000 is required to be authorised by the chairman of the Audit committee and the Group Finance Director prior to its commencement.
Individual assignments less than 300,000 are approved by the Group Finance Director.
The aggregate expenditure with the group auditors is reviewed by the Audit committee.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Corporate governance 46 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Audit committee holds private meetings with the external The Audit committee has noted the changes to the UK Corporate auditors after each committee meeting to review key issues within Governance Code introduced by the FRC in September 2012 and, their sphere of interest and responsibility.
in particular, the requirement contained in the Guidance on Audit Committees to put the external audit contract out to tender at least To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process, every ten years.
The new Code is effective for accounting periods the Audit committee reviewed: beginning on or after 1 October 2012 but the FRC has proposed t the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope possible transitional arrangements with respect to audit tendering including a suggestion that tendering should normally fit the five of the audit as set out in the external auditors engagement letter for the forthcoming year: yearly cycle of partner rotation which will be considered by the Audit committee.
t the external auditors overall work plan for the forthcoming year: The total fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc for the year ended t the external auditors fee proposal: 15 September 2012 were 8.7m of which 3.0m related to t the major issues that arose during the course of the audit and non-audit work.
Further details are provided in note 2 to the their resolution: financial statements.
Internal audit function t key accounting and audit judgements: The Audit committee is required to assist the board to fulfil its t the level of errors identied during the audit: and responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans t recommendations made by the external auditors in their of internal audit.
To fulfil these duties, the committee reviewed: management letters and the adequacy of managements t internal audits reporting lines and access to the committee response.
and all members of the board: Consideration is also given by the Audit committee to the need to t internal audits plans and its achievement of the planned activity: include the risk of the withdrawal of the external auditors from the market in its risk evaluation and planning.
t the results of key audits and other significant findings, the adequacy of managements response and the timeliness Although KPMG Audit Plc has been the Companys auditor for of resolution: many years, KPMG periodically changes its audit partners at a group, divisional and country level, in accordance with professional and t the appointment of the replacement for the retiring Director regulatory standards in order to protect independence and objectivity of Financial Control: and provide fresh challenge to the business.
Such changes are t statistics on staff numbers, qualications and experience, carefully planned to ensure that the Company benefits from and timeliness of reporting: continuity of staffing without incurring undue risk or inefficiency.
t the level and nature of non-audit activity performed by internal Stephen Oxley completed his five-year term as KPMG lead audit audit: and partner, allowable under auditing standards, at the conclusion of the audit last year.
His successor, Richard Pinckard, is expected to t changes since the last annual assessment in the nature and continue as lead audit partner until the conclusion of the 2016 audit.
extent of significant financial risks and the groups ability to Mr Pinckard was required by the Audit committee to undertake a respond to changes in its business and the external detailed review of the external audit arrangements across the group.
This included a review of senior audit executives and he presented The groups whistleblowing policy contains arrangements for his findings and recommendations to the committee.
As part of the Company Secretary to receive, in confidence, complaints on the normal partner rotation arrangements, four divisional audit accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related executives changed during the year.
matters for reporting to the Audit committee as appropriate.
The Audit committee is satisfied with the auditors effectiveness The groups anti-fraud policy has been communicated to all and independence and has not considered it necessary this year to employees and states that all employees have a responsibility conduct a tender process for the appointment of its auditors.
Having for fraud prevention and detection.
Any suspicion of fraud should carried out the review described above and having satisfied itself be reported immediately and will be investigated vigorously.
that the external auditors remain independent and effective, the Audit committee has recommended to the board that KPMG Audit The chairman of the Audit committee will be present at the Plc be reappointed as the Companys external auditor for 2012 2013. annual general meeting to answer questions on this report, matters within the scope of the committees responsibilities and any significant matters brought to the committees attention by the external auditors.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Corporate governance 47 Internal control Financial reporting The board acknowledges its responsibilities for the groups system Detailed management accounts are prepared every four of internal control to facilitate the identification, assessment and weeks, consolidated in a single system and reviewed by senior management of risk, the protection of shareholders investments management and the board.
They include a comprehensive and the groups assets.
The directors recognise that they are set of financial reports and key performance indicators covering responsible for providing a return to shareholders, which is commercial, operational, environmental and people issues.
consistent with the responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
Performance against budgets and forecasts is discussed regularly at board meetings and at meetings between operational and group Effective controls ensure that the groups exposure to avoidable risk management.
The adequacy and suitability of key performance is minimised, that proper accounting records are maintained, that the indicators is reviewed regularly.
All chief executives and finance financial information used within the business is reliable and that the directors of the groups operations are asked to sign an annual consolidated accounts preparation and financial reporting processes confirmation that their business has complied with the Group comply with all relevant regulatory reporting requirements.
The Accounting Manual in the preparation of consolidated financial dynamics of the group and the environment within which it operates statements and specifically to confirm the adequacy and accuracy are continually evolving together with its exposure to risk.
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of assets being unprotected and to guard against their unauthorised Internal audit use and the failure to achieve business objectives.
Internal controls The groups businesses employ internal auditors both employees can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against and resources provided by Ernst & Young where appropriate with material misstatement or loss.
skills and experience relevant to the operation of each business.
All of the internal audit activities are co-ordinated centrally by the The directors confirm that there is a process for identifying, groups Director of Financial Control, who is accountable to the evaluating and managing the risks faced by the group and the Audit committee.
operational effectiveness of the related controls, which has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of All group businesses are required to comply with the groups the annual report and accounts.
They also confirm that they have financial control framework that sets out minimum control standards.
regularly reviewed the system of internal controls utilising the A key function of the groups internal audit resources is to undertake review process set out below.
audits to ensure compliance with the financial control framework and make recommendations for improvement in controls where Standards appropriate.
Internal audit also conducts regular reviews to ensure There are guidelines on the minimum groupwide requirements that risk management procedures and controls are observed.
The for health and safety and environmental standards.
There are also Audit committee receives regular reports on the results of internal guidelines on the minimum level of internal control that each of the audits work and monitors the status of recommendations arising.
divisions should exercise over specified processes.
Each business The committee reviews annually the adequacy, qualifications and has developed and documented policies and procedures to comply experience of the groups internal audit resources and the nature with the minimum control standards established, including and scope of internal audit activity in the overall context of the procedures for monitoring compliance and taking corrective action.
groups risk management system set out below.
The Director of The board of each business is required to confirm bi-annually that Financial Control meets with the chairman of the committee as it has complied with these policies and procedures.
appropriate but at least annually, without the presence of executive High level controls management, and has direct access to the Chairman of the board.
All operations prepare annual operating plans and budgets which He also meets at least annually with the Audit committee, without are updated regularly.
Performance against budget is monitored the presence of executive management.
at operational level and centrally, with variances being reported promptly.
The cash position at group and operational level is monitored constantly and variances from expected levels are investigated thoroughly.
Clearly defined guidelines have been established for capital expenditure and investment decisions.
These include the preparation of budgets, appraisal and review procedures and delegated authority levels.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Corporate governance 48 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Principal risks and uncertainties Each business is responsible for regularly assessing its health, safety Each business is responsible for its own risk management and environmental risks with managers, operators, contracting assessment which is reported to the groups Director of Financial companies and specialist staff working together to identify hazards.
Our decentralised business model empowers the Appropriate operational procedures and controls are put in place boards and management of our businesses to identify, evaluate and to mitigate risks and all employees are provided with appropriate manage the risks they face on a timely basis.
Key risks and internal information, training and supervision.
Further details of our risk control procedures are reviewed at group level by the board.
mitigation activities can be found in our Corporate Responsibility report at www.
We require all businesses to implement appropriate levels of risk management to ensure compliance with all relevant legislation, The board reviews annually the material financial and non-financial our group health, safety and environment policies, our overriding risks facing our businesses and, on a rolling cycle basis, reviews the business principles and group policies relating to them, taking into effectiveness of the risk management process and the resources that account business needs and local circumstances.
our individual businesses devote to them.
The principal risks currently identified by our businesses and reviewed by the board are: PEOPLE Issue Risk Mitigation Product safety Reputational damage caused by food Food safety put before economic considerations.
Our businesses employ quality control specialists and operate Non-compliance with regulatory strict policies to ensure consistently high standards are maintained requirements.
in addition to the sourcing and handling of raw materials.
Food safety systems regularly reviewed to ensure efficacy and legal compliance.
Quality and food safety audits are undertaken at our manufacturing sites.
Documented and tested product recall procedures are embedded in all our businesses and regularly reviewed.
We proactively monitor the regulatory and legislative environment as well as emerging scientific research.
Health and Health concerns over certain ingredients Our recipes are regularly reviewed and reformulation is conducted nutrition infood.
as necessary to optimise the nutritional profile of products.
Our UK Grocery group has signed the UK governments Responsibility Deal on Public Health and associated pledges to reduce salt, remove trans fats and promote healthy eating and lifestyle options to our employees.
% Guideline Daily Amount labelling or equivalent nutritional information is provided to consumers in the UK and Australia.
Our UK Grocery portfolio contains only a small number of products specifically intended for children.
These products are marketed responsibly, following accepted codes of practice and within the parameters of a clear, operational business policy.
Workplace health Potential for fatal accidents and serious Group health and safety policy in place.
and safety injuries to employees and visitors.
Increased financial investment in health and safety management.
Information and guidance provided to our businesses.
Internal and external audits of health, safety and management reporting extended.
Employee rights Non-compliance with internationally International Labour Organization conventions are taken into recognised standards.
account and we strive to observe the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights in the management of all businesses.
Inability to recruit and retain high-calibre Staff throughout the group are recruited, trained and rewarded people at all levels necessary to achieve according to performance alone.
business performance targets and maintain Groupwide whistleblowing policy in place and kept under review.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Corporate governance 49 PEOPLE Issue Risk Mitigation Management Failure to plan for succession to key roles Each business has a succession plan which is reviewed with succession could lead to a lack of management group management twice a year, and with the board, annually.
continuity and sub-optimal operational Development of our senior managers is co-ordinated by the Group or financial performance.
HR Director and the Head of Executive Development.
A small number of executive search companies have been briefed to introduce us to talented executives from other companies who could add value to the group.
Input costs, Damage to brands caused by supply chain Extensive audit programme for labour standards of suppliers.
suppliers and weakness e. g. poor conditions for workers.
Continued work, in partnership with suppliers and NGOs, supply chain Disruption to raw material supplies and to improve working conditions e. g. via training.
reliability production caused by problems with Business continuity and disaster recovery planning regularly suppliers, natural disasters and other reviewed.
Ethical business Penalties imposed or reputational damage All group businesses required to sign up to the groups Business practices suffered through bribery, corruption or Principles and Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy with training unfair competition.
Businesses work co-operatively to ensure visibility of reputational risk within supply chains and draw upon best practice management expertise across the group including Primark and Twinings.
ENVIRONMENT Issue Risk Mitigation Climate change Long-term increase in energy prices.
Compliance with the groups environment policy.
Physical threats to operations from climate Best available techniques employed to reduce energy change e. g. flooding.
consumption statutory requirement for all sites subject to the EUs Pollution Prevention and Control regime.
Altered weather patterns affecting crop productivity.
Own electricity generated where possible, e. g. through combined heat and power plants and use of bagasse waste sugar cane fibre.
Agricultural raw materials sourced from a wide range of geographical locations and suppliers.
Substantial investment to improve environmental risk management and energy efficiency.
Air pollution Unacceptable impact on environment and Plant and process changes assessed in advance before offence caused to local communities by authorisation sought.
As a minimum, comply with emission emissions to air.
standards in country of operation.
Disposal of waste Legal sanction and reputational damage Responsibility assigned to senior executives in all businesses and waste water because of non-compliance with and specialists employed.
As a minimum, comply with standards regulations and licences.
Our UK Grocery group supports the Courtauld 2 Commitment to reduce packaging waste, the Food and Drink Federation Fivefold Environmental Ambition and the Institute of Grocery Distribution Water Savings Initiative.
Waste reduced, re-used or recycled wherever practicable.
Water availability Water shortages and increased cost Water-intensive sites in areas of water stress identified, and of water.
efforts focused on water reduction in these areas.
Investing heavily in the quality of our water usage data to enable improved monitoring and management of our water use.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Corporate governance 50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ENVIRONMENT Issue Risk Mitigation Resource efficiency Unnecessary costs from inefficient use Use of raw materials optimised.
Packaging waste minimised consistent with food safety and product protection.
Fuel consumption in transport minimised.
Palm oil Reputational damage from unsustainable Group policy introduced to buy all palm oil from sustainable sourcing of palm oil.
Genetically Consumer concern over use of GM Recognised as a sensitive issue for some consumers and modied GM crops food ingredients.
FINANCIAL AND REGULATORY Issue Risk Mitigation Competition rules Penalties for failing to comply with 1998 Clear policy direction and close support from specialist in-house Competition Act, the 2003 Enterprise Act, legal department.
relevant EU law and all relevant competition Compulsory awareness training.
Global economic Demand for our products declines due to Mitigated by diversity of business portfolio and geographic reach.
slowdown and uncertainty over economic outlook and Substantial investment in research and development, product changing consumer impact on disposable incomes.
quality, advertising and promotion, and focus on cost demand management.
Financial, currency Loss sustained as a result of failure of Adherence to the groups financial control framework and and commodity internal controls or fraud, and exposure anti-fraud policy.
risks to foreign currencies, interest rates, Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of counterparty credit risk, liquidity risk, board-approved policies and guidelines.
and changes in market prices especially for energy and commodities.
Sufficient funding is maintained by way of external loans and committed bank facilities which are renewed or extended on a timely basis having regard to the groups projected funding needs.
Financial transactions are dealt through financial institutions with a credit rating of A or better.
Details of the groups accounting and risk management policies with respect to financial instruments and associated quantitative and qualitative disclosures are set out in note 24 on pages [93-104].
Tax compliance Failure to comply with local tax law The group has a financial control framework and a board-adopted resulting in underpayment of tax and tax policy requiring all businesses to comply fully with all relevant exposure to related interest and penalties.
Provision is made for known issues based on managements interpretation of country-specific tax law and the likely outcome.
Any interest and penalties on tax issues are provided for in the tax charge.
Loss of a major site The loss of one of our key sites could Our businesses have business continuity plans in place to present significant operational difficulties.
manage the impact of such an event and group insurance programmes to mitigate the financial consequences.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Corporate governance 51 FINANCIAL AND REGULATORY Issue Risk Mitigation Regulatory and Failure to recognise political or cultural We remain vigilant to future changes and the increased risk political differences in the many countries in which presented by emerging markets.
we operate could directly impact the We engage with governments and NGOs to ensure the views success of our operations.
of our stakeholders are represented and we try to anticipate, and contribute to, important changes in public policy.
Our financial control requirements are consistently applied wherever we operate.
Proposals to end sugar quotas in 2015.
We are exploring alternative options with EU policymakers.
Major capital Risk of overspending initial cost estimates, All major projects are managed by dedicated teams who work projects and overrunning construction timelines and in close liaison with business management.
acquisitions failure to meet design specifications.
Project plans are reviewed and approved by group management and, for larger projects, by the board.
Updates on progress are provided throughout the project.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012
