62 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Statement The Non-Executive Directors meet regularly prior to each Board meeting Compliance statement without management in attendance.
The roles of Non-Executive Directors We are committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and and, in particular, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are comply with all the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the defined as follows: Code.
The Companys American Depositary Shares are listed on the NYSE and we are therefore subject to the rules of the NYSE as well as to Non-Executive Directors the US securities laws and the rules of the SEC applicable to foreign private Providing effective challenge to management issuers.
We comply with the requirements of the SEC and NYSE except that the Nomination & Governance Committee is not comprised wholly of Assisting in development of strategy independent Directors, as required by the NYSE, but consists of a majority of Serving on the Board Committees independent Directors in accordance with the Code.
We shall explain in this Corporate Governance Statement and in the Directors Remuneration Report, how we have applied the provisions and principles of the FSAs Listing Rules, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Disclosure & Transparency Rules DTR and the Code throughout the year.
Chairing meetings in the absence of the Chairman Acting as sounding board for the Chairman on Board-related matters Board Acting as an intermediary for the other Directors where necessary The Board is responsible for determining the strategy of the Chief Executive Officer and his Executive team implement that strategy.
More detail about Available to shareholders on matters which cannot otherwise be resolved the structure of the Board, the matters we deal with and the key activities we undertook in 2012 is on page 63.
Leading annual evaluation into the Boards effectiveness Leading search for a new Chairman, as necessary Roles of Directors Whilst we all share collective responsibility for the activities of the Board, some of our roles have been defined in greater detail.
In particular, the roles Independence of Non-Executive Directors and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly We are sensitive to the need for our Non-Executive Directors to remain defined.
independent from management in order to exercise our independent oversight and effectively challenge management as necessary.
We are Chairman mindful that some of our Non-Executive Directors have served on our Board Building a well balanced Board for periods that some might regard as likely to impact their independence.
We therefore continually assess the independence of each of our NonChairing Board meetings and setting Board agenda Executive Directors and have determined that all our Non-Executive Ensuring effectiveness of the Board and ensuring annual review Directors are independent in accordance with both UK and US requirements.
undertaken None of our Non-Executive Directors or their immediate families has ever had a material relationship with the Group.
None of them receive additional Encouraging constructive challenge and facilitating effective communication remuneration apart from Directors fees, nor do they participate in the in the Board Groups share plans or pension schemes.
None of them serve as directors of Promoting effective Board relationships any companies or affiliates in which any other Director is a director.
Ensuring appropriate induction and development programmes However, more importantly, each of our Non-Executive Directors is prepared to question and challenge management, to request more information and Ensuring effective two way communication and debate with shareholders to ask the difficult question.
They insist on robust responses both within the Setting the tone at the top with regard to compliance and sustainability Board room and sometimes between Board meetings.
The Chief Executive matters Officer is open to challenge from the Non-Executive Directors and uses this positively to provide more detail and to reflect further on issues.
Promoting high standards of corporate governance We value the input we receive from our long-serving Directors given their Maintaining appropriate balance between stakeholders deep understanding of the Group.
We are however focused on planning for the future to build a balanced board with the skills and experience fit to face the challenges that lie ahead.
We have identified the key skills and Chief Executive Officer experiences we need and have welcomed the specific experience that Developing and implementing Group strategy Ajay Piramal and Baroness Bottomley have brought to the Board since their appointment in 2012.
Ajay brings his skills as a successful businessman Recommending the annual budget and five-year strategic and financial plan within the Emerging markets, where growth in Emerging markets is Ensuring coherent leadership of the Group one of our Strategic Priorities.
Baroness Bottomley brings her in-depth knowledge of UK governmental healthcare policies and processes, which Managing the Groups risk profile and establishing effective internal controls is also of key importance for us given the pricing pressure we face from Regularly reviewing organisational structure, developing executive team European governmental authorities purchasing our products.
Following and planning for succession his appointment in April 2013, Michael Friedman will bring his exceptional experience of the US Healthcare market and the challenges we face in Ensuring the Chairman and Board are kept advised and up to date Established markets.
We continue to search for other suitable Non-Executive regarding key matters Directors, whose experience will align with our strategic objectives and, in Maintaining relationships with shareholders and advising the Board due course, our longer serving directors will step down.
accordingly Setting the tone at the top with regard to compliance and sustainability matters 015914 Smith&Nephew AR12 p56-p73 Working Copy.
indd 62 26 02 2013 09:36 marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business review review and principal risks governance other information section 6 corporate governance 63 Risk Board Membership Determining risk appetite, regularly reviewing risk register and risk Non-Executive Chairman Sir John Buchanan management processes Chief Executive Officer Olivier Bohuon Shareholder Communications Chief Financial Officer Adrian Hennah resigned 31 December 2012 Approving preliminary announcement of annual results, annual report, half yearly report, quarterly financial announcements, the release of price Chief Financial Officer Julie Brown appointed 4 February 2013 sensitive announcements and any listing particulars, circulars or Eight Independent Non-Executive Directors prospectuses Maintaining relationships and continued engagement with shareholders Richard fide Schutter Senior Independent Director Ian Barlow Baroness Bottomley appointed 12 April 2012 Key activities in 2012 Genevive Berger retired 1 November 2012 in addition to regular annual activities Michael Friedman to be appointed 11 April 2013 Review and oversight of the implementation of new strategy and Pamela Kirby organisational structure Brian Larcombe Oversight of risk management process and review of strategic risk Joseph Papa Approval of five-year plan Ajay Piramal appointed 1 January 2012 Review of effectiveness of Board Rolf Stomberg retired 12 April 2012 Review of ongoing Board composition and appointment of Ajay Piramal and Baroness Bottomley to the Board Consideration and approval of the acquisition of Healthpoint, LifeModeller and Kalypto Role of the Board Approval and oversight of European Process Optimisation programme Strategy Six physical scheduled meetings, three scheduled telephone meetings and Approving the Group strategy including major changes to corporate and two unscheduled telephone meetings.
management structure, acquisitions, mergers, disposals, capital transactions over $10m, annual budget, financial plan, business plan, major Four Day Strategy Review and visit to our Emerging and International borrowings and finance and banking arrangements markets Head Office and Middle Eastern business Approving changes to the size and structure of the Board, overseeing Two Day visit to our Memphis operations succession planning and the appointment and removal of Directors and the Company Secretary Approving Group polices relating to corporate social responsibility, health and safety, Code of Conduct and Code of Share Dealing and other matters Performance Reviewing performance against strategy, budgets and financial and business plans Overseeing Group operations and maintaining a sound system of internal control Determining dividend policy and dividend recommendations Approving the appointment and removal of the auditors and other professional advisers and approving significant changes to accounting policies or practices Approving the use of the Companys shares in relation to employee and executive incentive plans 015914 Smith&Nephew AR12 p56-p73 Working Copy.
indd 63 26 02 2013 09:36 64 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Statement continued Board and Committee attendance The table below details attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings held throughout the year: Nomination & Ethics & Audit Governance Compliance Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 11 meetings 8 meetings 7 meetings 5 meetings 7 meetings Sir John Buchanan i 9 7 Olivier Bohuon 11 7 Adrian Hennah ii 11 Ian Barlow i 10 8 Genevive Berger iii 7 3 Baroness Bottomley iv 6 2 Pamela Kirby 11 5 7 Brian Larcombe i v 9 7 5 7 Joseph Papa i 11 8 4 7 Ajay Piramal vi 7 Richard fide Schutter i v 9 7 7 5 7 Rolf Stomberg vii 4 3 2 2 i Attended all scheduled meetings, but unable to attend certain unscheduled meetings due to prior commitments.
ii Retired from Board on 31 December 2012. iii Retired from the Board on 1 November 2012. iv Appointed to the Board on 12 April 2012 and to the Remuneration Committee on 19 September 2012. v Appointed to the Nomination & Governance Committee on 12 April 2012. vi Appointed on 1 January 2012 and unable to attend certain meetings due to arrangements agreed prior to his appointment.
vii Retired from the Board on 12 April 2012.
In all cases where a director is unable to attend a scheduled or unscheduled meeting they have the opportunity of asking questions, raising issues and making their views known before the meeting.
From time to time Directors also attend Committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman, even if they are not members of the Committee, in order to gain a better understanding of the activities of that Committee.
indd 64 26 02 2013 09:36 marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business review review and principal risks governance other information section 6 corporate governance 65 Independent Audit made some suggestions for further improvement, which Board Development Programme we discussed at our February 2013 Board meeting.
We have agreed that We continue to focus our Board development programme around the specific in 2013, we shall focus on the following areas to improve our effectiveness needs and interests of our directors.
This means that there is a greater focus further: on facilitating a deeper understanding of our business rather than on formal director training.
We value our visits to different Smith & Nephew sites across Succession Planning at Board level will be discussed regularly at full Board the world, as we are able to see the daily operation of the business and to Meetings as well as by the Nomination & Governance Committee to meet and talk to the people leading and working in our business about the ensure that there is a common understanding around the future structure challenges they face and how they are planning to meet those challenges.
We are able to handle our products and hear how our people are innovating The activities and strategies of our competitiors will be discussed in greater and developing the products of the future.
This direct contact with our businesses helps us when making investment and strategic decisions and detail to ensure that the Board better understands our position in the when considering succession planning below Board level.
market place and the competitive pressures we face.
Further opportunities will be explored for ensuring that Non-Executive We receive updates at the Board and Committee meetings on external corporate governance changes likely to affect the Company in the future.
In Directors meet more frequently with senior executives below Board level 2012, we reviewed the proposed changes to narrative reporting, as well as to aid succession planning and to gain a greater understanding of the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Audit Committee business and its challenges.
The Remuneration Committee has been monitoring changes to the way we will report on executive remuneration in the future and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee met with the holders of 25% of the Company Secretary and Independent Advice Company to discuss remuneration issues.
The Company Secretary, Susan Swabey, is responsible to the Board for Ajay Piramal and Baroness Bottomley, who joined the Company during the ensuring that we comply with all corporate governance requirements and are year, took part in tailored induction programmes which included visits to kept updated on our responsibilities.
We all have access to her, individually our businesses in Hull in the UK, Andover and Mansfield in the US and to and collectively.
Mumbai in India as well as one-to-one meetings with senior head office executives and briefings on UK company law and corporate governance We may also, from time to time, obtain independent professional advice, practices.
at the Companys expense, if we judge it necessary in order to fulfil our responsibilities as Directors.
If we are unable to attend a Board meeting or Month Activity Board Committee meeting, we ensure that we are familiar with the matters to be discussed and make our views known to the Chairman or the Chairman February Presentations from Roger Teasdale, President of Advanced of the relevant Committee prior to the meeting.
Wound Management and Mike Frazzette, President of Advanced Surgical Devices on their distinct business strategies Management of Conflicts of Interest September Visit to our Dubai head office for our Emerging markets and None of us, nor our connected persons, has any family relationship with any International markets divisions other Director or officer, nor has a material interest in any contract to which Presentation on our Middle Eastern business the Company or any of its subsidiaries are, or were, a party during the year or up to 19 February 2013.
Presentations from the entire Executive Team as part of the Boards Strategy Review Each of us has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation in which we have or may have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts November Visit to Advanced Surgical Devices offices inMemphis or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in Series of presentations from our Advanced Surgical Devices addition to the existing duty that we owe to the Company to disclose to the senior executives on the challenges faced by the business Board any transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company.
and our strategyand initiatives to meet these challenges If we become aware of any situation which may give rise to a conflict of interest, we inform the rest of the Board immediately and the Board is then permitted under the Articles of Association to authorise such conflict.
The information is recorded in the Companys Register of Conflicts together with Board Effectiveness Review the date on which authorisation was given.
In addition, we certify, on an Having conducted internal reviews into the effectiveness of the Board in annual basis, that the information contained in the Register is correct.
2010 and 2011, we carried out an externally facilitated review in 2012.
During the year, we evaluated the varying service provided by the different firms When the Board decides whether or not to authorise a conflict, only the of advisers who practise in this area and selected Belinda Hudson and Directors who have no interest in the matter are able to participate in the Richard Sheath of Independent Audit Limited to help facilitate our review discussion and a conflict is only authorised if we believe that it would not given their experience conducting similar reviews for other companies of have an impact on our ability to promote the Companys success in the a similar size and complexity.
Independent Audit has no other business long term.
Additionally, we may, as a Board, determine that certain limits or relationship with the Company or any member of the Board.
Following an conditions must be imposed when giving authorisation.
We have identified initial planning meeting with the Chairman, they reviewed the minutes and no actual conflicts which have required approval by the Board.
We have, papers of the Board and Committee meetings held in the past year and then however, identified 10 situations which could potentially give rise to a conflict interviewed each member of the Board and the Company Secretary.
They and these have been duly approved by the Board and are reviewed on an also interviewed Helen Maye, Chief Human Resources Officer and Gary annual basis.
Luck of Towers Watson, who support the Remuneration Committee and James Goodwin, Head of Internal Audit and Les Clifford of Ernst & Young who work with the Audit Committee.
Finally, they attended and observed our Re-appointment of Directors December 2012 Board meeting.
In accordance with the Code, with effect from the Annual General Meeting They concluded that the Board was very effective with a strong and held in 2011, all Directors, including Baroness Bottomley who was appointed professional Chairman, a strong cadre of Non-Executive Directors with a on 12 April 2012, Julie Brown who was appointed on 4 February 2013 and broad range of expertise and experience, and a Chief Executive Officer Michael Friedman who will be appointed on 11 April 2013, offer ourselves to whotakes a very positive and open approach to support the Board.
Each Director may be removed at any time by the Board or the shareholders.
indd 65 26 02 2013 09:36 66 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Statement continued Directors Indemnity Arrangements Dividend Each Director is covered by appropriate directors and officers liability The Board has proposed a final dividend of 16.20 US cents per share which, insurance and there are also Deeds of Indemnity in place between the together with the interim dividend of 9.90 US cents, makes a total for 2012 Company and each Director.
These Deeds of Indemnity mean that the of 26.10 US cents.
The final dividend is expected to be paid, subject to Company indemnifies Directors in respect of any proceedings brought by shareholder approval, on 8 May 2013 to shareholders on the Register of third parties against them personally in their capacity as Directors of the Members at the close of business on 19 April 2013.
The Company would also fund ongoing costs in defending a legal action as they are incurred rather than after judgement has been given.
In the event of an unsuccessful defence in an action against them, individual Annual General Meeting Directors would be liable to repay the Company for any damages and to The Companys Annual General Meeting is to be held on 11 April 2013 at repay defence costs to the extent funded by the Company.
2:00pm at IET London: Savoy Place, 2 Savoy Place, Westminster, London, WC2R 0BL.
Registered shareholders have been sent either a Notice of Annual General Meeting or notification of availability of the Notice of Annual Liaison with Shareholders General Meeting, as appropriate.
The Executive Directors meet regularly with investors to discuss the Companys business and financial performance both at the time of the announcement of results and at industry investor events.
During 2012, the Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers Executive Directors held meetings with institutional investors, including We have adopted a Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, which is investors representing approximately 46% of the share capital as at available on the Groups website www.
This applies to the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller and the Groups senior financial officers.
There have As part of this programme of investor meetings, during 2012, as Chairman been no waivers to any of the Codes provisions nor any amendments made of the Company, I met with investors representing 14% of the share capital.
to the Code during 2012 or up until 19 February 2013.
Over the last three years, I have met investors representing in aggregate 20% of the share capital.
Also during 2012, Joseph Papa met with shareholders holding 25% of the share capital to discuss remuneration policies and plans.
Evaluation of Internal Controls Procedures We receive a short report at every Board meeting reviewing our major Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate shareholders and any significant changes in their holdings since the internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15 f and previous meeting.
Olivier Bohuon and Adrian Hennah and his successor 15d-15 f under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Julie Brown routinely advise us of any concerns or issues that shareholders have raised with them in their meetings.
We also receive copies of analysts We, as a Board, are responsible overall for reviewing and approving reports on the Company and our peers between Board meetings.
the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the Group, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk The Companys website www.
com contains information of management.
We have delegated responsibility for the review of financial, interest to both institutional investors and private shareholders, including ethical compliance and quality management systems controls to the Audit financial information and webcasts of the results presentations to analysts for Committee, which reviews the internal control process on an annual basis each quarter, as well as specific information for private shareholders relating and evaluates its effectiveness to ensure that it remains robust and to to the management of their shareholding.
The latest review covered the financial year to 31 December 2012 and included the period up to the approval of this Annual Report.
The main elements of this annual review are as follows: Share Capital As at 19 February 2013, the Companys total issued share capital with voting The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have evaluated rights consisted of 904,988,045 Ordinary Shares of 20 US cents each.
the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure 59,503,197 Ordinary Shares are held in treasury and are not included in the controls and procedures as at 31 December 2012.
Based upon this above figure.
evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer As at 19 February 2013, notification had been received from the undernoted concluded on 19 February 2013 that the disclosure controls and procedures investors under the DTR in respect of interests in 3% or more of the issued were effective as at 31 December 2012.
Ordinary Shares with voting rights of the Company.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
Management assessed the Number of effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting as at Shares % 31 December 2012 in accordance with the requirements in the US under Invesco 105,165,112 11.6 s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
In making this assessment, they used BlackRock, Inc. 44,811,205 5.0 the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.
Based Legal and General Group plc 28,331,119 3.1 on their assessment, management concluded and reported that, as at In addition to the above the Company is aware that Walter Scott & Partners 31 December 2012, the Groups internal control over financial reporting is Limited hold approximately 39m Ordinary Shares 4.3%.
Otherwise, the effective based on those criteria.
Company is not aware of any person who has a significant direct or indirect Having received the report from management, the Audit Committee reports holding of securities in the Company and is not aware of any persons holding to the Board on the effectiveness of controls.
securities which may control the Company.
There are no securities in issue Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm which have special rights as to the control of the Company.
issued an audit report on the Groups internal control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2012.
This report appears on page 91.
indd 66 26 02 2013 09:36 marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business review review and principal risks governance other information section 6 corporate governance 67 There is an established system of internal control throughout the Group and Disclosure of information to the auditors our Divisions.
The main elements of the internal control framework are as In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors follows: serving at the time of approving the Directors Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information of which The management of each Division is responsible for the establishment and the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, are unaware and the Directors also confirm review of effective internal financial controls within their Division.
that they have taken reasonable steps to be aware of any relevant audit The Group Finance Manual sets out, amongst other things, financial and information and, accordingly, to establish that the auditors are aware of such accounting policies and minimum internal financial control standards.
The Internal Audit function agrees an annual work plan and scope of work with the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviewed reports from the internal auditors on their Auditors findings on internal financial controls.
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as auditors The Audit Committee reviews the Group Whistleblower procedures.
and resolutions proposing their reappointment and to authorise the Directors The Audit Committee reviews regular reports from the Group Financial to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Controller and the Heads of the Taxation and Treasury functions.
Meeting as approved by the Audit Committee.
This system of internal control has been designed to manage rather than eliminate material risks to the achievement of our strategic and Directors Report business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, The Directors Report includes the following sections: Marketplace and assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Because of inherent Business Segment Review pages 22 to 33, Sustainability Review pages limitations, our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent 35-41, Financial review and principal risks pages 43 to 54, Corporate or detect all mis-statements.
In addition, our projections of any evaluation Governance pages 57 to 74 and Group and investor information of effectiveness in future periods are subject to the risk that controls may pages144 to 159. become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
This process complies with the Turnbull working party guidance, revised October 2005 and additionally contributes to our compliance with the obligations under Corporate headquarters and registered office the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and other internal assurance activities.
There The corporate headquarters is in the UK and the registered office address has been no change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting is: Smith & Nephew plc, 15 Adam Street, London WC2N 6LA, UK.
Registered during the period covered by this Annual Report that has materially affected, in England and Wales No.
or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups internal control over smith-nephew.
Committees of the Board Principal accountant fees and services We delegate some of the Boards detailed work to four Committees.
Each Fees for professional services provided by Ernst & Young LLP, the Groups of these has their own terms of reference, which may be found on the independent auditors in each of the last two fiscal years, in each of the Groups website at www.
The Company Secretary or following categories were: her designate is secretary to each of the Committees.
The Chairman of each Committee reports orally to the Board and minutes of the meetings are 2012 2011 circulated to all members of the Board.
$m $m Audit 3 3 Audit related fees Tax 2 2 Other 5 5 Audit fees include fees associated with the annual audit and local statutory audits required internationally.
A more detailed breakdown of audit fees may be found in Note 3 of the Notes to the Group accounts.
indd 67 26 02 2013 09:36 68 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Statement continued Audit Committee Nomination & Governance Committee Ian Barlow Sir John Buchanan Membership Membership Ian Barlow Chairman Independent and financial expert Sir John Buchanan Chairman Independent on appointment Brian Larcombe Independent Olivier Bohuon Joseph Papa Independent Brian Larcombe Independent appointed 12 April 2012 Richard fide Schutter Independent Richard fide Schutter Independent Rolf Stomberg Independent retired 12 April 2012 Rolf Stomberg Independent retired 12 April 2012 In addition, all meetings were attended by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Head of Internal Audit, the external auditors and key finance personnel.
Eight Meetings Seven Meetings One matter agreed by written resolution Main Responsibilities Main Responsibilities Financial reporting Review size and composition of Board Ensuring the integrity of the financial statements and their compliance with Oversee Board succession plans UK and US statutory requirements Recommend Director appointments Reviewing significant financial reporting judgments and compliance with Oversee governance aspects of the Board and its Committees accounting standards, policies and practices Oversee review into the Boards Effectiveness Monitoring announcements relating to the Groups financial performance Consider and update the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board Internal controls and risk management and the Terms of Reference of the Board Commtitees Monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls and compliance with the Monitor external corporate governance activities and keep the Board Sarbanes-Oxley Act specifically S 302 and 404 updated Reviewing the operation of the Groups risk management processes and the control environment mitigating compliance and quality management Oversee Board development programme and the induction process system risk for new Directors Receive reports on fraud and whistleblowing Internal audit Agreeing internal audit plans and reviewing internal audit reports Monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function External audit Overseeing the Boards relationship with the external auditors, monitoring and reviewing their performance, evaluating their effectiveness and making recommendations to the Board for their reappointment Key Activities in 2012 in addition to main responsibilities Key Activities in 2012 in addition to main responsibilities Reviewed plans for continuing the reformatting of the Annual Report Recommended the appointment of Julie Brown as  in light of the new Narrative Reporting requirements Recommended the appointment of Baroness Bottomley as an additional Considered the management of strategic risk by the Tax function.
Non-Executive Director Received and considered a report from the Treasury function.
Considered the appointment of Michael Friedman as an additional Reviewed an external report on the effectiveness of the internal audit Non-Executive Director function and monitored implementation of its recommendations.
Expanded remit of the Committee to include governance matters Reviewed capabilities of finance function.
Continued consideration of diversity issues 015914 Smith&Nephew AR12 p56-p73 Working Copy.
indd 68 26 02 2013 09:36 marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business review review and principal risks governance other information section 6 corporate governance 69 Ethics & Compliance Committee Remuneration Committee Pamela Kirby Joseph Papa Membership Membership Pamela Kirby Chairman Independent Joseph Papa Chairman Independent Genevive Berger Independent to 1 November 2012 Baroness Bottomley Independent appointed 19 September 2012 Joseph Papa Independent Pamela Kirby Independent Richard fide Schutter Independent Brian Larcombe Independent Richard fide Schutter Independent Five Meetings Seven Meetings Three matters agreed by written resolution Main Responsibilities Main Responsibilities Review ethics and compliance programmes Determine remuneration policy for Executive Directors and senior executives Review policies and training programmes Approve individual remuneration packages for Executive Directors and Review compliance performance based on monitoring, auditing and Executive Officers at least annually and any major changes to individual investigations data packages throughout the year Review allegations of significant compliance failures Determine the use of long-term incentive plans and oversee the use of shares in all executive and all-employee plans Review Groups internal and external communications relating to ethical and compliance issues Approve appropriate performance measures for short-term and long-term incentive plans for Executive Directors and senior executives Review external developments and compliance activities Determine pay-outs under short-term and long-term incentive plans for Receive reports from the Groups ethics and compliance meetings and from Executive Directors and senior executives the Chief Compliance Officer and the Chief Legal Officer Approve Directors Remuneration Report ensuring compliance with related governance provisions Maintain constructive engagement on remuneration issues with shareholders Have regard to remuneration policies and practices across the Group Key Activities in 2012 in addition to main responsibilities Key Activities in 2012 in addition to main responsibilities Approved FCPA settlement with the US Department of Justice and Approved package for incoming Chief Financial Officer Securities and Exchange Commission Approved joining and leaving packages for all direct reports to Chief Executive Officer Met with independent monitor appointed under the DOJ SEC settlement to discuss the effectiveness of our Global Compliance programme, review Implemented new remuneration arrangements for top 70 senior executives to align remuneration with the updated Group strategy his initial report, and consider further enhancements Continued engagement programme with major shareholders to explain Continued to review compliance programme for third party sellers new remuneration arrangements and other third parties doing business with the Company Reviewed policies on termination payments and compensation payments Reviewed development of employee compliance training programmes for lost incentives by new hires Considered level and trend of investment in the Companys compliance Monitored external developments relating to remuneration best practice efforts Considered compliance implications relating to potential acquisitions, including due diligence findings and integration plans 015914 Smith&Nephew AR12 p56-p73 Working Copy.
indd 69 26 02 2013 09:36 70 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Statement continued Audit Committee Receipt of functional reports Dear Shareholder The Audit Committee had a busy year with five main meetings supplemented During the year, we received reports from the Group Financial Controller by three telephone meetings to approve quarterly financial reports.
The on Shared Services, from the heads of Tax and Treasury in relation to their topics covered the membership and the principal duties of the Committee functions, from the Chief Information Officer in relation to IT security and are set out in the table on page 68 of this report.
Its terms of reference can be from the SVP of Quality and Regulatory Affairs on quality assurance.
In all found on our website www.
I comment in this report by cases we concentrated on the risk environment, the risk parameters within exception on our main responsibilities and in more detail on one off work.
which the Board wishes to operate and the effectiveness of the systems and processes to manage those risks.
The members of the Committee, who are all independent Directors, bring a variety of relevant expertise from their current or prior roles as Chief Review of the work of the external auditors Executives of substantial businesses both in the UK and US and from their roles as Non-Executive Directors at other corporations.
I am the designated We monitored the work of Ernst & Young, our external auditors throughout finance expert, being a Chartered Accountant and former senior partner at the year.
Their work provided essential assurance over the financial systems KPMG UK, retiring in 2008. and reporting that valuably supplements the work of Internal Audit.
They continue to evidence their independence in the challenge they provide to Main Responsibilities management and the insight they bring to the Committee from their work with us and comparative observations of other companies.
Financial reporting Our review of the appropriateness of the Groups principal accounting We formally reviewed their effectiveness through review of their regular policies, practices and accounting judgments concentrated on the valuation reports on accounting matters, governance and control and accounting of inventory and receivables, on the carrying value of goodwill, intangible and developments.
In addition we utilised formal year end feedback from all tangible assets, on the valuation of retirement benefits, contingencies and our operating units as a result of which we asked for improvements to be provisions.
In light of current market conditions we paid particular attention made in two operating locations and conducted a formal questionnaire of to the review of the management of receivables derived from trading in Committee members.
We reviewed the inspection reports from the Auditor Southern European countries.
Oversight Boards in the UK and the US.
Finally we reviewed the fees of the auditors using benchmarking against groups of comparable size and We continued to review the style and format of the Annual Report during complexity.
2012, building on the improvements we made in 2011.
In particular, this year we have concentrated on the disclosure of metrics around our key Our conclusions were that the external audit was carried out effectively performance indicators and have changed the ordering of sections to and with necessary objectivity and independence.
This is the basis for provide a better flow through the document.
our recommendation to the Board and shareholders that Ernst & Young be reappointed for 2013.
Internal controls and risk management We ensured compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the We also considered the Financial Reporting Councils proposals on auditor Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
rotation and, in light of the recent change in Chief Financial Officer, agreed that the implications for the company should be reviewed during 2013.
On behalf of the Board, we reviewed the system of internal financial control and satisfied ourselves that we are meeting required standards both for Auditor Independence Policy the year ended 31 December 2012 and up to the date of approval of this AnnualReport.
We have determined a schedule of approved non-audit services for the Group external auditors to undertake.
Our Auditor Independence Policy No concerns were raised with us in 2012 about possible improprieties in prohibits the external auditors from performing services which would matters of financial reporting or other matters.
result in the auditing of their own work, participating in activities normally We continued to work with the full Board to improve the clarity of evaluation undertaken by management, acting as advocates for the Group and creating of risk by the executive and Board and the systems for reporting and a mutuality of interest between the auditors and the Group by, for example, managing risk and for how it is dealt with in this Annual Report.
The being remunerated through a success fee structure.
On an annual basis, underlying purpose is to enable the Board to focus on the key strategic risks, we pre-approve the budget for fees relating to audit and non-audit work, both on the upside not doing things and on the downside.
Aside from including taxation compliance services, in accordance with a listing of routine reporting the Board conducted a strategic discussion on risk during particular services.
In the event that limits for these services are expected to the year.
be exceeded or the Group wants the external auditors to perform services that have not been pre-approved, my approval is required.
The Committee is Internal Audit subsequently advised of any such services and fees.
In this way all services provided by the external auditors during the year were pre-approved by the Our Internal Audit function carries out work in three areas: our financial Audit Committee.
systems and processes: our systems that ensure compliance with regulation and laws: and our quality management systems in our manufacturing The Auditor Independence Policy also governs the policy regarding the audit activities.
In all three areas they act as a third line of defence behind partner rotation in accordance with the Auditing Practices Board Ethical operational managements front line and own assurance activities.
During Standards in the UK and the SEC rules in the US.
Partners and senior audit the year they completed 67 reviews, the results of which were seen by the staff may not be recruited by the Group unless two years have expired Committee which also oversees the effective and timely remediation of any since their previous involvement with the Group.
No such recruitment has recommendations.
We consider that the implementation of this policy helps ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
We also considered an external review of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function undertaken by  LLP.
The report was 2013 positive about the team and made recommendations principally related to further strengthening the Internal Audit team, improving methods of In addition to our main responsibilities we will be looking at the systems of managing its workload and communicating its work to external stakeholders control and risk management over the Groups recent acquisitions.
and the scope to extend the reach of its work.
In this context from 2013 the scope of the Internal Audit function has been widened to include auditing clinical and regulatory assurance.
Ian Barlow Chairman of Audit Committee 015914 Smith&Nephew AR12 p56-p73 Working Copy.
indd 70 26 02 2013 09:36 marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business review review and principal risks governance other information section 6 corporate governance 71 Nomination & Governance Committee Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present my report on the activities of the Nomination & Governance Committee in 2012.
The membership and the principal duties of the Committee are set out in the table on page 68 of this report.
In 2012, we dealt with the following matters: Appointment of Julie Brown We recommended the appointment of Julie Brown as Chief Financial Officer to replace Adrian Hennah who left the Company at the end of 2012 to take up a position elsewhere.
Appointment of Non-Executive Directors In 2011, we recommended the appointment of Ajay Piramal, who joined the Board in 2012, bringing a wealth of experience as a succesful businessman in India.
We also conducted and completed the search for Baroness Bottomley, who joined the Board in April 2012.
She too brings a great deal of experience in the area of governmental healthcare policy.
We have throughout the year continued our search for additional Non-Executive Directors, in particular focusing on the skills, experience, independence and diversity each candidate can bring to the Board.
All Non-Executive Director appointments are linked to the strategic priorities identified by the Board: Emerging Market experience US healthcare experience European healthcare experience Since the year end, we have recommended the appointment of Michael Friedman who will join the Board on 11 April.
He brings exceptional experience of the US Healthcare market.
As and when we find further appropriate candidates willing to join our Board, we will replace some of our longer-serving Directors.
Where appropriate we use the services of external search agents, recognising however, that suitable candidates may sometimes come to our attention by other means.
Expanded the Remit of the Committee We reviewed the remit of the Committee during 2012 and agreed to expand its role to cover governance matters.
As part of our role in recommending appointments to the Board, we were already considering matters of governance such as the independence of Non-Executive Directors, succession planning, diversity and conflicts of interest.
The Committee also oversees the process around the review into the Boards Effectiveness.
It therefore made logical sense to recognise this formally by changing the name of the committee to the Nomination & Governance Committee and expanding its role to consider wider areas of governance.
The expanded role includes oversight of the effective governance of the Board and its committees, the review of terms of reference of the Board and its Committees, supervision of the induction process for new directors and the ongoing Board Development programme.
We will also monitor external governance activities to ensure that the Board is kept up to date on changes that might affect us.
The whole Board remains responsible for ensuring that the Company is governed appropriately, but the more detailed work to support this will now be carried out by this Committee.
Sir John Buchanan Chairman of Nomination & Governance Committee 015914 Smith&Nephew AR12 p56-p73 Working Copy.
indd 71 26 02 2013 09:36 72 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Statement continued Ethics & Compliance Committee Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to present my report on the activities of the Ethics & Employee Compliance Programme Compliance Committee in 2012.
The membership and the principal duties of the Committee are set out in the table on page 69 of this report.
New employees are trained on our Code of Conduct which sets out the basic legal and ethical principles for carrying out business and applies both to In 2012 we dealt with the following matters: employees and others who act on the Groups behalf.
It sets out in detail how persons covered by the Code of Conduct are expected to interact ethically Settlement with US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC with healthcare professionals and government officials.
A copy of the Code and US Department of Justice DOJ of Conduct can be found on the Groups website www.
In January 2012, we reviewed and approved the final terms of the settlement The Code of Conduct includes our whistle-blowing policy, which subject between the Company and the SEC and DOJ in connection with their Foreign to local law requires covered persons to report any breach either directly Corrupt Practices Act FCPA investigation of the medical devices industry.
or anonymously through an independent provider.
Members of the public This has been a matter that we as a Committee have monitored closely are also encouraged to report concerns.
All reports are reviewed and the since the formation of the Committee in 2008.
The settlement included the appropriate action taken, including referral to senior management or the appointment of an independent monitor who worked with the Company over Board, where warranted.
The Code also states that we have a non-retaliation most of 2012 to evaluate the effectiveness of our compliance programme and policy against anyone who makes a report in good faith.
The Ethics & make recommendations, as appropriate, for further enhancements to the Compliance Committee is advised of any potentially significant improprieties programme.
We have been working collaboratively with the monitor for this which are reported.
The Committee reviewed his initial report and continues to review We have also monitored the development and enhancement of the the Companys progress towards implementation of his recommended employee compliance training programme.
Employees are required to enhancements.
undertake compliance training and managers are encouraged to discuss ethical matters with their teams.
Some training is tailored for employees in Compliance Programme for Distributors specific job situations.
Further support is provided through a comprehensive set of tools and resources located on our global intranet platform.
We continued to review and improve our compliance programme with third party sellers such as distributors and sales agents, particularly in Compliance Infrastructure the Emerging and International markets.
We have initiated a semi-annual communication to our sellers to reinforce our commitment to ethical and We are mindful that an effective compliance programme requires both a legal behaviour and making it clear that we will not tolerate any improper culture of integrity and investment in the necessary infrastructure to give inducements in the sale of products.
We also developed a set of resources to effect to that culture.
help sellers build or enhance their own compliance programme.
Our sellers With that in mind, the Committee reviewed the level and trend of investments can customise and brand these materials, which have been translated.
in the Companys compliance programme, as well as the costs of compliance defects.
As the Company grows in new markets, we continue to expand our Compliance Programme for other Third Parties global network of Regional Compliance Officers and use them to reinforce We have continued to strengthen our controls over vendors, service the importance of compliance with our employees and third parties around providers and other third parties engaged by us but that do not sell our the world.
products, based on the supplier type and risk profile.
We have created Guidance on the Smith & Nephew Code of Conduct and Business Principles Compliance Implications around Acquisitions for Third Parties to highlight the areas of our Code that apply directly to third Finally, as members of the Board discussing acquisition opportunities, we parties and that we expect them to follow when working on our behalf.
ensure that the compliance implications of each acquisition are considered as part of both the due diligence process and plans for integration of the acquired business.
Pamela Kirby Chairman of Ethics & Compliance Committee 015914 Smith&Nephew AR12 p56-p73 Working Copy.
indd 72 26 02 2013 09:36 marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business review review and principal risks governance other information section 6 corporate governance 73 Other Committees Executive Risk Committee Olivier Bohuon chairs our Executive Risk Committee which includes the Executive Directors and Executive Officers of the Group.
As an integral part of our planning and review process, the management of each of our divisions identifies the risks applicable to their business, the probability of those risks occurring, the impact if they do occur and the actions required and being taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
The Executive Risk Committee meets twice a year to review the major risks they identify across the Group and the mitigation processes and plans.
As appropriate, the Executive Risk Committee may re-categorise risks or require further information or mitigating action to be undertaken.
We receive an annual report from the Executive Risk Committee, which details the significant risks categorised by potential financial impact on profit and share price and by likelihood of occurrence.
Details of new, key or significantly increased risks, along with actions put in place to mitigate such risks, are also reported to us as appropriate.
We have provided further information on the principal risks identified through this process in Principal risks and risk management on pages 54 to 55 of this AnnualReport.
Disclosures Committee Olivier Bohuon chairs the Disclosures Committee which includes the Chief Financial Officer and various additional senior executives.
The Committee meets as required and approves the release of all major communications to investors, to the UK Listing Authority and to the London and New York Stock Exchanges.
Sir John Buchanan Chairman 20 February 2013 015914 Smith&Nephew AR12 p56-p73 Working Copy.
