B C A A 5 58 8 S Sm miit th & N h & Ne ep ph he ew A w An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 12 2 Our Board of Directors Our Board has the depth and breadth of experience necessary to help the business take full advantage of the opportunities and challenges ahead.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 Balance of Non-Executive Board Gender Board Nationality and Executive Directors A Male 8 A American 3 A Chairman 1 B Female 3 B British 5 B Executive C French 1 Director 2 D Indian 1 C Non-Executive E New Zealand 1 Director 8 Board Committee Membership Audit Nomination & Ethics & Remuneration Susan Swabey 51 Governance Compliance Company Secretary 1 Sir John Buchanan Susan was appointed Company Secretary in May 2 Olivier Bohuon 2009.
She has nearly 30 years experience as a company secretary in a wide range of companies 3 Julie Brown including Prudential plc, Amersham plc and RMC 4 Ian Barlow Group plc.
Her work has covered Board support, 5 Baroness Bottomley corporate governance, corporate transactions, share registration, listing obligations, corporate social 6 Richard fide Schutter responsibility, pensions, insurance and employee 7 Michael Friedman and executive share plans.
Susan is a member of 8 Pamela Kirby the GC100 Group Executive Committee and the CBI Companies Committee and is a frequent speaker on 9 Brian Larcombe corporate governance related matters.
10 Joseph Papa Nationality 11 Ajay Piramal British 015914 Smith&Nephew AR12 p56-p73 Working Copy.
indd 58 26 02 2013 09:36 E B A D B C m mar ark ke et tp pl la ac ce e an and d s sust usta aiin na ab biil liit ty y f fiina nan nc cia ial l r re ev viie ew w c cor orp por ora at te e a acco ccou un nt ts s a an nd d o ove ver rvi vie ew w s st tr ra at te eg gy y a an nd d p pe er rf form orma an nc ce e b bu us siine fines ss s r re ev vie iew w r re ev viiew ew a and nd p pr rin inc cip ipa al l r riis sk ks s g go ove ver rn nan anc ce e o ot th he er r i in nf form orma at tiion on s se ec ct tiion on 6 6 c cor orp por ora at te e g go ov ver ern na an nc ce e 59 59 Other Directorships 1 Sir John Buchanan 69 8 Pamela Kirby 59 Lead Non-Executive Director chairing the Board of Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director Her Majestys Revenue and Customs Chairman of the Ethics & Compliance Committee Sir John was appointed Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director of The Brunner Investment Director in 2005 and was appointed Chairman Pamela was appointed Non-Executive Director Trust and Chairman of the Nominations Committee in in March 2002 and Chairman of the Ethics & Chairman of The Racecourse Association April 2006 now the Nomination & Governance Compliance Committee in April 2011.
Pamela has extensive commercial and product British Sir John has broad international experience gained in development experience within the international large and complex international businesses.
He has pharmaceutical and healthcare industry.
Her last 5 The Rt Hon Baroness Bottomley of substantial experience in the petroleum industry and executive position was Chief Executive of Quintiles knowledge of the international investor community.
Transnational Corp. in the US, having previously Nettlestone DL 64 He has held various leadership roles in strategic, held senior positions in various pharmaceutical Independent Non-Executive Director financial, operational and marketing positions, companies including AstraZeneca and F. Hoffmannincluding executive experience in different countries.
Baroness Bottomley was appointed Non-Executive La Roche.
She is now a Non-Executive Director of a He is a former Executive Director and Group Financial Director on 12 April 2012. number of international companies.
Officer of BP, serving on the BP Board for six years Baroness Bottomley has extensive experience and Other Directorships until 2003. understanding of healthcare.
She was appointed a Non-Executive Chairman of Scynexis, Inc. Other Directorships Life Peer in 2005 following her career as a Member Non-Executive Director of Informa plc of Parliament between 1984 and 2005 and served Chairman of ARM Holdings plc Non-Executive Director of Victrex plc successively as Secretary of State for Health and then Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc Non-Executive Member of the Board of Simmons & National Heritage.
She holds a number of positions Chairman of International Chamber of Commerce Simmons LLP within the public and private healthcare sector.
UK Limited Nationality Chairman of UK Trustees for the Christchurch Other Directorships British Earthquake appeal Director of International Resources Group Limited Nationality Member of the International Advisory Board of 9 Brian Larcombe 59 Chugai Pharmaceutical Company Limited British New Zealand Independent Non-Executive Director Chancellor of University of Hull Pro Chancellor of the University of Surrey Brian was appointed Non-Executive Director in 2 Olivier Bohuon 54 Governor of the London School of Economics March 2002.
Brian spent his career in private equity Chief Executive Officer Trustee of The Economist with 3i Group.
After leading the UK investment Olivier joined the Board and was appointed Chief business for a number of years, he became Finance Nationality Executive Officer in April 2011.
He is a member of the Director and then Chief Executive of the Group British Nomination & Governance Committee.
He is well known in the City and has held a number of Non-Executive Directorships.
Olivier has had extensive international and 6 Richard fide Schutter 72 leadership experience within a number of Other Directorships Senior Independent Non-Executive Director pharmaceutical and healthcare companies.
Prior to Non-Executive Director of gategroup Holding AG joining Smith & Nephew, he was President of Abbott Richard was appointed Non-Executive Director in Non-Executive Director of Incisive Media Holdings Pharmaceuticals, a division of Abbott Laboratories January 2001 and Senior Independent Director in Limited based in the US, where he was responsible April 2011.
Nationality for the entire business, including R&D, Global Richard has had extensive US corporate experience Manufacturing and global support functions.
British at Chief Executive and Chairman level in a number Other Directorships of major corporations with primarily a scientific, 10 Joseph Papa 57 chemical, engineering or pharmaceutical focus Non-Executive Director of Virbac Group including G. D. Searle & Co. Monsanto Company, Independent Non-Executive Director Nationality Pharmacia Corporation and DuPont Pharmaceuticals Chairman of the Remuneration Committee French Company.
Joseph was appointed Non-Executive Director in Other Directorships August 2008 and Chairman of the Remuneration 3 Julie Brown 50 Committee in April 2011.
Non-Executive Chairman of Incyte Corporation Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director of Durata Therapeutics, Inc. Joseph has had nearly 30 years experience in the Julie joined the Board on 4 February 2013 as Chief Non-Executive Director of Navicure, Inc. pharmaceutical industry working for a number of Financial Officer.
Julie is a Chartered Accountant and Non-Executive Director of Sprout Pharmaceuticals companies both in the US and Switzerland.
He is now Fellow of the Institute of Taxation with international Non-Executive Director of Celtic Therapeutics Chairman and Chief Executive of Perrigo, one of the experience and a deep understanding of the largest over the counter pharmaceutical companies Nationality healthcare sector.
She trained with KPMG and then in the US, having held senior positions at Novartis, American worked for AstraZeneca plc, where she served as Cardinal Health, Inc. and Pharmacia Corporation.
Vice President Group Finance, and more recently, as Other Directorships 7 Michael A Friedman 69 Interim Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to that she was Chairman and Chief Executive of Perrigo Company Regional Vice President Latin America, Marketing Independent Non-Executive Director Company President AstraZeneca Portugal and Vice Nationality Michael will be appointed Non-Executive Director President Corporate Strategy and R&D Chief Financial in April 2013 and will immediately offer himself to American Officer.
She has previously held Vice President shareholders for re-election.
Finance positions in all areas of the healthcare value Michael has been Chief Executive Officer of City of 11 Ajay Piramal 57 chain including Commercial, Operations, R&D and Hope, the prestigious cancer research and treatment Independent Non-Executive Director Business Development.
He also serves as director of Ajay was appointed Non-Executive Director on Nationality the institutions comprehensive cancer centre and 1January 2012.
Ajay is one of Indias most respected holds the Irell & Manella Cancer Center Directors British businessmen.
He enabled the Piramal Group to Distinguished Chair.
He was formerly senior vice transform from a textile-centric group to a US$2.0bn president of research, medical and public policy for 4 Ian Barlow 61 conglomerate in diversified areas.
He has extensive Pharmacia Corporation and has served as Deputy Independent Non-Executive Director industry and market knowledge and international Commissioner and Acting Commissioner at the US experience.
He has held a number of global healthcare Chairman of the Audit Committee Food and Drug Administration.
He has also served leadership positions in both India and internationally.
Ian was appointed Non-Executive Director in March on a number of Boards in a Non-Executive capacity, 2010 and Chairman of the Audit Committee in May Other Directorships including RiteAid Corporation.
Chairman of Piramal Enterprises Limited, Piramal Other Directorships Ian is a Chartered Accountant and has had Glass Limited, Allergan India Pvt.
Limited, IndiaREIT Chief Executive Officer of City of Hope considerable financial experience both Fund Advisers Pvt.
Limited and Director of DB Corp. Non-Executive Director of Celgene Corporation internationally and in the UK.
Prior to his retirement Limited Non-Executive Director of MannKind Corporation in 2008, he was a Partner at KPMG, latterly Senior Chairman of the Board of Governors of Indian Nationality Partner, London.
During his career with KPMG, he Institute of Technology, Indore was Head of their UK tax and legal operations, and Member of the Board of Deans Advisers at Harvard American he acted as Lead Partner for many large international Business School organisations operating extensively in North Chairman of Pratham India America, Europe and Asia.
Nationality Indian 015914 Smith&Nephew AR12 p56-p73 Working Copy.
