60 60 S Sm miit th & N h & Ne ep ph he ew A w An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 12 2 Our Executive Officers Olivier Bohuon is supported in the day-to-day management of the Group by a strong team of Executive Officers: 1 3 4 2 5 6 7 8 9 10 015914 Smith&Nephew AR12 p56-p73 Working Copy.
indd 60 26 02 2013 09:36 m mar ark ke et tp pl la ac ce e an and d s sust usta aiin na ab biil liit ty y f fiina nan nc cia ial l r re ev viie ew w c cor orp por ora at te e a acco ccou un nt ts s a an nd d o ove ver rvi vie ew w s st tr ra at te eg gy y a an nd d p pe er rf form orma an nc ce e b bu us siine fines ss s r re ev vie iew w r re ev viiew ew a and nd p pr rin inc cip ipa al l r riis sk ks s g go ove ver rn nan anc ce e o ot th he er r i in nf form orma at tiion on s se ec ct tiion on 6 6 c cor orp por ora at te e g go ov ver ern na an nc ce e 61 61 1 Julie Brown 50 5 Gordon Howe 50 9 Ros Rivaz 57 Chief Financial Officer Senior Vice President, Global Planning and Chief Technology Officer Development Julie joined the Board on 4 February 2013 as Chief Joined Smith & Nephew in November 2011.
Julie is a Chartered Accountant and Joined Smith & Nephew in 1998 and, since August responsible for manufacturing, supply chain and Fellow of the Institute of Taxation with international procurement, IT systems, Corporate Sustainability 2007, has headed up the Global Planning and experience and a deep understanding of the and Regulatory and Quality Affairs and is focused on Business Development teams.
He is based in healthcare sector.
She trained with KPMG and then Memphis, Tennessee.
improving efficiency in Smith & Nephew processes.
worked for AstraZeneca plc, where she served as She is based in London.
Previous Experience Vice President Group Finance, and more recently, as Previous Experience Interim Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to that she was Gordon has held a number of senior management Ros has held senior management positions in Regional Vice President Latin America, Marketing positions within the Smith & Nephew Group first Company President AstraZeneca Portugal and Vice in the Orthopaedics division and more recently at global companies in the areas of supply chain management, logistics, manufacturing, procurement President Corporate Strategy and R&D Chief Financial Group level.
Prior to joining the Company, he held Officer.
She has previously held Vice President senior roles at United Technologies Corporation.
and systems, including, ExxonMobil, ICI, Tate & Lyle and Diageo.
She has 30 years experience across all Finance positions in all areas of the healthcare value Nationality chain including Commercial, Operations, R&D and areas of operational excellence.
Nationality Nationality British British 6 Kelvin Johnson 61 President, International markets 10 Roger Teasdale 45 Joined Smith & Nephew in 1980 and was appointed 2 Jack Campo 58 President, Advanced Wound Management to lead the International markets division, covering Chief Legal Officer all countries outside the Established and Emerging Joined Smith & Nephew in 1989 within the Wound Management business.
He was appointed President Joined Smith & Nephew in June 2008 and heads up markets in 2011.
of Advanced Wound Management in May 2009.
He the Global Legal function.
Initially based in London, Previous Experience is based in Hull, UK.
he has been based in Andover, Massachusetts since Kelvin has held a number of key international roles late 2011.
Previous Experience with Smith & Nephew, firstly in South Africa and Previous Experience thenleading the Emerging Market strategy.
He has Roger has held a number of key roles within the Smith & Nephew Group in both the UK and the Prior to joining Smith & Nephew, Jack held a number spent some time leading the Groups increased focusin China.
US and has been responsible for leading the of senior legal roles within the General Electric transformation of the wound business in recent Company, including seven years at GE Healthcare Nationality years.
GE Medical Systems in the US and Asia.
He began South African his career with Davis Polk & Wardwell.
Nationality Nationality British American 7 Helen Maye 53 Chief Human Resources Officer Joined Smith & Nephew in July 2011 and leads 3 Francisco Canal Vega 51 the Global Human Resources and Internal President, Emerging markets Communications functions.
Joined Smith & Nephew in January 2012 and leads Previous Experience the Emerging markets division, focusing particularly on achieving market leading growth in Brazil, Russia, Helen has more than 35 years experience across China and India.
a variety of international and global roles in medical devices and pharmaceuticals, including Previous Experience manufacturing, supply chain and human resources.
Francisco has held senior management positions in Previously, she was Divisional Vice President of global companies including Gambro AB and Baxter Human Resources at Abbott Laboratories.
He has lived and worked in many Nationality countries including Switzerland, Germany, China, Japan, US and Spain.
Francisco was also formerly a Irish Board Member of EUCOMED.
Nationality 8 Cyrille Petit 42 Spanish Chief Corporate Development Officer Joined Smith & Nephew in May 2012 and leads the Corporate Development function.
He is based in 4 Mike Frazzette 50 London.
President, Advanced Surgical Devices Previous Experience Joined Smith & Nephew in July 2006 as President of the Endoscopy business.
Since July 2011, he has Cyrille spent the previous 15 years of his career with headed up our Advanced Surgical Devices division General Electric, where he held progressively senior and is responsible for the Orthopaedic, Trauma and positions beginning with GE Capital, GE Healthcare Endoscopy business in Established markets.
He is and more recently as the General Manager, Global based in Andover, Massachusetts.
Business Development of their Transportation Division.
Cyrilles career began in investment banking Previous Experience at BNP Paribas and then Goldman Sachs.
Mike has held a number of senior positions within Nationality the US medical devices industry.
He was President and Chief Executive Officer of Micro Group, a US French manufacturer of medical devices and spent 15 years at Tyco Healthcare becoming President of each of the Patient Care and Health Systems divisions.
Nationality American 015914 Smith&Nephew AR12 p56-p73 Working Copy.
