Corporate governance statement Notwithstanding the tensions created by many external Chairmans introduction The Board of the Company is committed to ensuring that it provides expectations, which may be wholly or in part unrealistic, a successful board should, ideally, be composed of a group of sound and effective leadership.
One of the ways in which the Board achieves this is by making clear that the principles, processes and respected, experienced, like-minded but diverse people who coalesce around a common purpose of promoting the long-term practices of good governance must be adhered to throughout the Company.
The Board determined that the following is a helpful success of the Company, provide a unied vision of the denitions of success and appropriate risk, endeavour to support management summary of its role: i. e. those who honestly criticise at times but encourage all the time Good corporate governance is about helping to run the Company and who create confidence in all stakeholders in the integrity of well.
It involves ensuring that an effective internal framework of systems A board meeting should feel like a meeting at which everyone is and controls is put in place which clearly defines authority and participating to solve problems together.
Above all, all participants accountability and that promotes success whilst permitting the should be able to say after a board meeting that value has been management of risk to appropriate levels.
It involves the exercise added as a result of the meeting taking place.
This added value of judgement as to the denitions of success, the appropriateness will come in many forms: challenge, advice, clarity, imagination, of risk and the levels of delegation to the executive.
The exercise support, sharing of problems, or creating strategic intent.
The list of this judgement is the responsibility of the Board and involves is not exhaustive.
consideration of processes and assumptions as well as outcomes.
Board membership is for 365 days of the year.
Board responsibilities It also involves the creation of a sensitive interface for the views do not start and end with formal meetings.
Board members, on the of shareholders and other stakeholders to be given appropriate Companys and their own initiative, should endeavour to engage consideration when reaching these judgements.
outside of meetings to bring their experience to the assistance of the executive team whenever possible.
The executive team is required to provide such information to the Board as the Board needs to enable it to exercise its judgement over Above all there should be a sense of value added from the these matters.
engagement of the board members in all their interaction with the Company, formal or otherwise.
There is a very ne distinction between the approval of processes and their denition.
Wherever possible it is the role of the Board to The directors are aware of, and keep in constant view, their approve process rather than initiate or define it.
Only exceptionally accountability to the Companys stakeholders, in particular the would the Board intervene to initiate or define.
providers of the Companys capital, and the importance of good governance in serving the shareholders interests.
The Board is The Board also sets the tone for the Company.
The way in which it conducts itself, its attitude to ethical matters, its denitions of updated regularly on shareholders views through detailed briengs from the Director, Investor Relations which includes verbatim success and the assessment of appropriate risk all define the atmosphere within which the executive team works.
In 2011 an independent research agency was commissioned to carry out an investor perception study for Good corporate governance is not about adhering to codes of the Company.
The Board considered the findings of the study practice although adherence may constitute a part of the evidence and the expectations of shareholders, as set out in the report, of good governance but rather about the exercise of a mindset to have inuenced the Boards thinking on governance, financial do what is right.
performance and strategy throughout the year.
To enhance its One of the challenges facing any Board is the way in which the performance, in 2011 the Board set itself explicit objectives distinct from the Companys and has monitored at each meeting non-executive and the executive directors interact.
It is clear that they each have the same legal responsibility but it is generally the extent to which its activity has furthered these objectives.
It has found this process adds value.
This will be an annual process.
unrealistic to expect executive directors to speak individually with the same freedom as the non-executive directors.
Equally executive Donald Brydon, CBE directors who just toe the executive line in contradiction to their Chairman own views may not be effectively contributing to good governance.
A well-functioning Board needs to nd the right balance between hearing the collective executive view and being aware of the natural internal tensions in an executive team.
One of the consequences of both increasing the watchdog role of the Board and nding this balance between individuality and team behaviour is driving more and more Boards to have fewer and fewer executive directors.
In our circumstances as a holding company for a number of businesses, the reduced Board size works effectively and an appropriate balance is struck.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 71 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Corporate governance statement Continued Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board normally holds formal meetings at least six times a year to make and review major business decisions and monitor current Throughout the period 1 August 2011 to 31 July 2012 the Company has been in full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the trading against plans which it has approved.
The Board also holds regular additional meetings to consider the strategy of the divisions.
Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council and available on its website www.
uk, except that the value of any fees received by The Board exercises control by determining matters specically reserved to it in a formal schedule which only the Board may change: executive directors in respect of external non-executive directorships is not disclosed in the Directors remuneration report, as this is not these matters include the acquisition or divestment of significant companies or businesses, the issue of shares, significant contractual considered relevant to the Company.
The Company intends to continue to explain rather than comply with the Code in this limited area.
commitments, the review of the effectiveness of risk management processes and major capital expenditure.
Once a year, the Board Disclosure & Transparency Rule 7 meets with a particular focus on long-term strategy and developments This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1: 2.2 1 : 2.3 1 : 2.5: affecting the Company.
Further meetings are arranged as necessary 2.7: and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the UK Listing Authority Disclosure & to deal with urgent items.
The information required to be disclosed by subThe Board sets the Companys values and standards and has adopted section 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown in the Group directors report on pages 67 and 68 and is incorporated in this Corporate governance statement a Code of Business Ethics which is referred to on pages 59 and 60. by reference.
The executive directors and senior management team are responsible for the Companys financial performance, the day-to-day management Directors The Board of the Companys businesses and implementation of the strategy and direction set by the Board.
As at 17 September 2012, the Board comprises Mr Brydon Chairman, Mr Bowman Chief Executive, Mr Turner Finance Director and five The Chairman meets the non-executive directors without the executive independent non-executive directors: Messrs Angelici and Challen: directors present at least twice a year.
The Senior Independent Director Ms Fratto and Ms Quinn: and Sir Kevin Tebbit.
Mr Challen is the Senior meets the other non-executive directors without the Chairman present Independent Director.
Biographies of these directors, giving details of at least annually and is available to provide support to the Chairman their experience and other main commitments, are set out on pages and to serve as an intermediary for the other directors, if required.
The Board and its committees have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to Directors and ofcers of the Company and its subsidiaries have the benefit of a directors and ofcers liability insurance policy.
enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
The wide-ranging experience and backgrounds of the nonexecutive directors ensure that they can debate and constructively challenge management in relation to both the development of strategy and the evaluation of performance against the goals set by the Board.
Board activities The Board regularly reviews: In addition to these areas of focus, the Board regularly considered the strategy and risks of each division and the Group as a whole, including the opportunities for portfolio rationalisation and for growth Environment, health through increased penetration of new markets and through new product launches and service offerings.
and safety Examples of various specic items considered by the Board during the year are listed below.
The Financial performance activities of the Board Committees are individually outlined on pages 77 to 79.
Divisional performance Month Activity and current issues September 2011 Annual results, Annual Report and Feedback from meetings Corporate Responsibility Report with investors Smiths Detection strategy and risk review Investor perception survey Financial risk and treasury matters November 2011 Interim management statement AGM issues Tax risk and status Additional meeting to discuss external Board evaluation Pensions matters findings and agree Board objectives Acquisition and January 2012 John Crane strategy and risk review divestment opportunities Additional meeting to review Groups IT function Litigation March 2012 Interim results Smiths Medical strategy and risk review Directors conicts May 2012 Board visit to Brazil, including tour of John Crane and Smiths Corporate governance Detection sites and visit to Smiths Medical customer and compliance Group strategy and risk review Share register Interim management statement Government relations July 2012 Smiths Interconnect and Flex-Tek strategy and risk reviews Group-level risks FY2013 budget Report from cross-divisional best practice working groups Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 72 The table below shows the number of board meetings held during the financial year ended 31 July 2012 and, opposite each directors name, the number of meetings they were eligible to attend and the number actually attended.
However, the Board regards attendance at meetings as only one measure of directors contributions to the Company.
In addition to formal board meetings, the directors attend many other meetings and make site visits during the year.
For example, as part of her induction and familiarisation process, Ms Fratto has visited a number of the Companys sites in the USA and Europe and has met employees and management in all five divisions.
In May 2012, as part of the Companys focus on growth in emerging markets, the Board visited the John Crane facility in Rio Claro, Brazil, which was celebrating the 50th anniversary of John Crane in Brazil.
The Board also visited the Smiths Detection headquarters in Brazil and saw Smiths Medicals products in use at the Hospital Benecincia Portuguesa in So Paulo.
Board meetings Eligible to attend Attended D. H. Brydon Chairman 12 11 P. Bowman 12 12 P. A. Turner 12 12 B. F. J. Angelici 12 12 D. J. Challen 12 12 S. J.
Chambers retired 1 July 2012 10 9 T. D. Fratto appointed 1 July 2012 2 2 A. C. Quinn 12 11 K. R. Tebbit 12 12 Chairman and Chief Executive The Board has established clearly dened roles for the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
Once agreed by the Board as a whole, it is the Chief Executives responsibility to ensure delivery of the strategic and financial objectives.
Board balance and independence There is a balance of executive and non-executive directors such that no individual or small group can dominate the Boards decision taking.
Throughout the financial year at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, has comprised independent non-executive directors.
In deciding the chairmanship and membership of the Board Committees, the need to refresh membership of the Committees is taken into account.
The table on page 74 indicates the service, to 31 July 2012, of each of the directors.
All the non-executive directors are considered to be independent and Mr Brydon was considered independent at the time of his appointment as Chairman.
Board visit to Brazil As part of the 2012 programme of visits to the Groups businesses, the Board visited John Crane and Smiths Detection operations and a key Smiths Medical customer in Brazil, a fast-growing market for the Group.
The visit included a tour of the John Crane operations and service facility in Rio Claro, where the directors met senior management and employees and received an update on business performance and strategy, as well as taking the opportunity to mark John Cranes 50th year of operation in the country.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 73 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Corporate governance statement Continued D. H. Brydon 8 years 3 months B. J. F. Angelici 2 years 1 month P. Bowman 4 years 7 months D. J. Challen 7 years 10 months T. D. Fratto 1 month A. C. Quinn 3 years K. Tebbit 6 years 2 months P. A. Turner 2 years 3 months 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 6 years 7 years 8 years 9 years Appointments to the Board Non-executive directors are also provided with information and The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent updates between meetings.
Regular site visits are arranged and nonprocedure for the appointment of new directors, which are made on executive directors are encouraged to visit sites independently.
During merit and against objective criteria, having due regard for the benets site visits, briengs are arranged and the directors are free to discuss of diversity, including gender.
This procedure was followed in the aspects of the business with employees at all levels.
appointment of Ms Fratto as an independent non-executive director Newly-appointed directors undergo an induction programme to on 1 July 2012.
Both the Nomination Committee and the Board are ensure that they have the necessary knowledge and understanding of satisfied that the directors are able to allocate sufficient time to their the Company and its activities.
They undertake brieng sessions on responsibilities relating to the Company.
The Nomination Committee corporate governance, strategy, stakeholder issues, finance and risk and the Board each considered the recommendations of the Davies management and HR, as well as meetings and site visits to business Report entitled Women on Boards when this was published in 2011 locations.
Each directors individual experience and background is and the subsequent discussion and debate in regulatory and media taken into account in developing a programme tailored to his or her circles.
The Chairman made clear in his Chairmans Statement in last own requirements.
years Annual Report that when the Company had cause to recruit a new director it would do so with Lord Davies objectives in mind The Chairman consults with the directors on their respective training consistent with the needs of the Company at that time.
The Nomination and development requirements.
The suitability of external courses Committee, after an externally facilitated search by an independent is kept under review by the Company Secretary who is charged with agency as further described in the Nomination Committee report facilitating the induction of new directors and with assisting in the below was pleased to recommend to the Board the appointment of ongoing training and development of all directors.
The Board also considered Mr Brydons appointment as the All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Chairman of The Sage Group plc and concluded that, in the light of Secretary and a procedure is in place for them to take independent his broad experience, in general: his wide knowledge of the Company, professional advice at the Companys expense should this be required.
in particular: and his retirement from his responsibilities at AXA Investment Management SA and AXA Rosenberg LLP, the changes to Conicts of interest his external commitments were unlikely to have an effect on his role Under the 2006 Act a director must avoid a situation where he or she as the Chairman of the Company.
The Board also considered other has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conicts, or possibly appointments and proposed appointments of the directors as part of may conict, with the companys interests.
The requirement is very the Directors conicts of interest procedure.
broad, and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The 2006 Act Information and professional development allows directors of public companies to authorise conicts and potential The Board is provided with detailed information several days in conicts where appropriate and where the articles of association advance on matters to be considered at its meetings and non-executive contain a provision to this effect, as the Companys Articles do.
directors have ready access to the executive directors and other senior corporate staff.
During the year the Company Secretary led a detailed The Board has put procedures in place for directors to report any potential or actual conicts to the other members of the Board for review and selection process of electronic Board administration systems for the provision of virtual Board and Board Committee their authorisation where appropriate.
Each director is aware of the requirement to seek approval of the Board for any new conict packs.
This included a comprehensive review and challenge of the security aspects of the shortlisted systems.
In early 2012 a provider situations, as they may arise.
The process of reviewing conicts disclosed, and authorisations given including such conditions as the was selected, and in May the Board meeting papers were provided to all the directors after appropriate training in electronic format on Board may determine in each case, is repeated at least annually.
Any conicts or potential conicts considered by the Board and any iPads through the secure Board portal.
authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of directors conicts which is maintained by the Company Secretary.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 74 Performance evaluation The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and each director.
The external Board evaluation facilitated by Professor Rob Goffee of the London Business School in respect of the year ended 31 July 2011 identied a number of key strengths of the Board, including the strong and effective leadership provided by the Chairman: the mix of the nonexecutive directors experience and its relevance to the different businesses and strategic priorities of the Company: and the balance of challenge and support provided in board meetings.
Following on from the review the Board noted a number of points which it considered could enhance its performance and set itself a series of written objectives for the year ended 31 July 2012.
These objectives, and the Board performance against them, included: Objective 2012 Performance Address Board succession issues, including appointment of new The Nomination Committee, with the support of an independent Remuneration Committee Chair and in conjunction with the external search consultant, carried out a recruitment process for Nomination Committee the recruitment of new Board member s. a new non-executive director and made recommendations to the Board.
Ms Tanya Fratto joined the Board on 1 July 2012.
Ms Anne Quinn succeeded Mr Stuart Chambers who retired from the Board on 1 July 2012 as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
In conjunction with the Nomination Committee, give input and In July 2012 the Nomination Committee considered a detailed review guidance to in-depth reviews of members of senior management.
of the Companys senior managers, including independent thirdparty assessments and 360 reviews of the individuals in question.
Take full ownership of the risk reviews procured by the Audit The Board specically reviewed Group-wide risks in July 2012, and Committee, including in particular macro and Group-wide issues.
was kept updated throughout the year on issues raised in the Risk reports tendered to each Audit Committee meeting.
Improve understanding of the Groups IT function and its relevance The Board convened an additional meeting in January 2012 to to profitability.
consider the Groups IT function.
An update was provided to the Board in May on points arising from the January meeting.
In respect of the year ended 31 July 2012 the Board evaluation was Accountability and audit conducted by the Company Secretary using internally administered Financial reporting questionnaires, but based on the evaluation conducted the previous The Board is required to present a balanced and understandable year by Professor Goffee and having regard to the objectives set by assessment of the Companys position and prospects in the Annual the Board for the year.
The evaluation considered the balance of skills, Report and in interim and other public reports.
The Board is experience, independence and knowledge of the Company on the satisfied that it has met this obligation.
A summary of the directors Board and its diversity in the widest sense and other factors relevant responsibilities for the financial statements is set out on page 89. to its effectiveness.
The questionnaire required each of the directors The going concern statement required by the Code is set out in the to consider the performance of the Board and each of the main Board Group directors report on page 67. committees against a number of criteria, including effectiveness of leadership, efficiency of meetings, time and focus given to particular Internal control areas, information issues, corporate governance standards and The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the the extent to which the objectives set by the Board had been met.
It significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its particular objectives also looked at how well the Board works together as a unit and the and maintains sound risk management and internal control systems performance of each individual director against a number of criteria.
to safeguard shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
The results of the evaluation are used to inform the Boards approach The effectiveness of the internal control system is reviewed at least going forward.
annually by the Audit Committee, covering all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk The directorships in listed companies and other significant management systems.
The Audit Committee carried out such a commitments of the Chairman and the non-executive directors are review during the year ended 31 July 2012.
The Financial Reporting shown on pages 64 and 65.
It is confirmed that the Chairman and the Councils report Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on non-executive directors have sufficient time to full their commitments the Combined Code October 2005 provides guidance.
to the Company and that no executive director holds more than one non-executive directorship of another FTSE 100 company.
The Company has in place internal control and risk management systems in relation to the Companys financial reporting process Re-election and the Groups process for preparation of consolidated accounts.
All directors stand for election by the shareholders at the first Annual These systems include policies and procedures that: pertain to the General Meeting AGM following their appointment.
The Board has maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly resolved that all directors who are willing to continue in ofce will reect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide reasonable stand for re-election by the shareholders each year at the AGM.
Nonassurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the executive directors are appointed for a specified term of three years, preparation of financial statements in accordance with International subject now to annual re-election at each AGM, and reappointment Financial Reporting Standards IFRS : require representatives of for a second three-year term is not automatic.
Any term for a nonthe businesses to certify that their reported information gives a true executive director beyond six years is subject to a particularly rigorous and fair view of the state of affairs of the business and its results review.
for the period: and review and reconcile reported data.
The Audit Remuneration Committee is responsible for monitoring these internal control and Information regarding the Remuneration Committee is set out on risk management systems.
page 79 and the Directors remuneration report is on pages 80 to 88.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 75 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Corporate governance statement Continued The Companys internal control is based on assessment of risk and Audit Committee and Auditors a framework of control procedures to manage risks and to monitor The Audit Committee makes formal and transparent arrangements compliance with procedures.
The procedures for accountability and for considering how financial reporting and internal control principles control are outlined below.
are applied and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the independent external auditors,  LLP.
The Companys internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed and, Relations with shareholders by their nature, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance Dialogue with shareholders against material loss to the Company or material misstatement in the The Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Director, Investor financial accounts.
Relations communicate with institutional investors through analysts briengs and extensive investor roadshows in the UK, US and The Group has an embedded process for the identication, evaluation continental Europe, as well as timely Stock Exchange announcements, and management of significant business risks.
The process is reviewed meetings with management and site visits as shown in the table through the Audit Committee and monitored by the Group Internal below.
Members of the Board, and in particular non-executive Audit Department.
The Company has during the year identied and directors, are kept informed of investors views, in the main through evaluated the key risks and has ensured that effective controls and distribution of analysts and brokers briengs.
At least twice a year procedures are in place to manage these risks.
a report is made to the Board on the number and types of meetings In the highly regulated environment of the industries in which the between the Company and institutional shareholders.
The Chairman, Company operates, procedures are codified in detailed operating the Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive directors procedures manuals and are reinforced by training programmes.
are available to meet shareholders on request.
These are designed to ensure compliance not only with the regulatory Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting requirements but also with general principles of business integrity.
All directors normally attend the Companys AGM and shareholders A key element in any system is communication: the executive directors are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet directors and senior corporate staff meet regularly with representatives from after the formal proceedings have ended.
It is intended that there shall the businesses to address financial, human resource, legal, risk be a poll vote on each resolution at the 2012 AGM.
The audited, final management and other control issues.
results of the poll votes will be released to the London Stock Exchange and published on the Companys website, www.
com, as soon Throughout the financial year the Board, through the Audit Committee, as is practicable after the conclusion of the AGM.
reviews the effectiveness of internal control and the management of risks.
In addition to financial and business reports, the Board has All the directors, including the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and reviewed mediumand longer-term strategic plans: management Remuneration Committees, were available at the 2011 AGM to answer development programmes: reports on key operational issues: tax: shareholders questions.
The notice of the AGM and related papers treasury: risk management: insurance: legal matters: and Audit were sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Committee reports, including internal and external auditors reports.
Investor relations activities timeline 2011-2012 Roadshows Presentations July 2012 US June 2012 Netherlands and Sweden May 2012 Smiths Detection Investor Day April 2012 UK, Germany, France March 2012 US, Canada, UK Interim results February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 UK Private Client Brokers November 2011 France, UK, Germany AGM, John Crane site visit October 2011 UK, US, Canada September 2011 UK Annual results August 2011 US During financial year 2012, senior management and the investor Contact with investors analysts 4 relations team had contact with over 400 analysts and investors.
1 United Kingdom 51% 3 2 US and Canada 34% 3 Rest of Europe 13% 4 Rest of World 2% 1 2 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 76 Board Committees Audit Committee The full terms of reference of the following Board Committees Eligible to attend Attended are available upon request and on the Companys website, www.
D. J. Challen Chairman 3 3 B. F. J. Angelici 3 3 Audit Committee S. J.
Chambers retired 1 July 2012 2 2 Introduction from the Chairman of the Audit Committee T. D. Fratto appointed 1 July 2012 1 1 The role of the Audit Committee includes monitoring and reviewing A. C. Quinn 3 3 1 the integrity of the Companys financial statements and its K. R. Tebbit 3 3 accounting policies and methods: 2 the Companys systems of internal controls and risk management: 3 the Companys Code The members of the Committee during the financial year were Mr of Business Ethics and Business Ethics Programme: 4 the Challen Chairman of the Committee, Mr Angelici, Ms Quinn and Sir Companys internal audit function: and 5 the appointment of and Kevin Tebbit.
Mr Chambers ceased to be a member of the Committee the Companys working relationship with the external auditors, when he retired from the Board on 1 July 2012.
Ms Fratto was including their remuneration, terms of engagement, independence appointed to the Committee at the same time as her appointment to and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking the Board on 1 July 2012. into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory The Board has determined that the Committee members have the requirements.
Over the past financial year the Audit Committee has skills and experience, including knowledge and experience of financial met three times in order to discharge its responsibilities.
reporting and internal business, necessary to contribute meaningfully During the year it was agreed that the Audit Committee would to the Committees deliberations.
In addition, the Chairman of concentrate on monitoring operational risks and that the review the Committee has the requisite experience in accounting and of strategic risk would become a matter for the full Board to financial management.
The Committee has carefully reviewed The Committee meets at least three times a year to monitor the annual risk presentations from each of the five divisions and from integrity of the Companys financial statements and the effectiveness BIS Business Information Services, the Companys IT function.
of the external audit process, corporate governance issues and, in In order to be satisfied that risk management is fully embedded particular, the implementation of the Companys Code of Business in the thinking and planning of the management teams of each Ethics and the arrangements for employees to raise condentially of the divisions and of BIS, the Committee has challenged the and anonymously, if they so choose concerns about possible divisional general managers and BIS to show that they have wrongdoing in financial reporting and other matters.
It is responsible properly identied all the significant risks to their business and for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Company have put in place measures and contingency plans to manage them and the external auditors is maintained, including reviewing non-audit satisfactorily.
services and fees and implementing the Companys audit partner The Committee has monitored the activities of the Company in rotation policy.
The Committee has primary responsibility for making promoting and policing its Business Ethics Programme.
Over recommendations to the Board on the appointment, reappointment 98% of the Companys employees have been trained in the Code and removal of the external auditors.
of Business Ethics and the Company is seeking to promote The Committee also reviews annually the Groups systems of internal the adoption and maintenance by its agents and distributors of control: the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing equivalent ethical standards.
The Committee has reviewed the the Group: and the effectiveness of the internal audit function: it treatment of allegations of unethical and non-compliant behaviour is responsible for approving the appointment and removal of the that are dealt with by the Companys Code Compliance Council.
The Committee reviews annually its terms level of allegations received and their materiality are considered to of reference and its effectiveness and recommends to the Board any be low in the context of the size and scope of the Company.
changes required as a result of such review.
David Challen, CBE The annual review of the Committees terms of reference was Chairman of the Audit Committee conducted in July 2012.
In the year to 31 July 2012, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by reviewing: the Groups financial statements and interim results statement prior to Board approval and the external auditors detailed reports thereon: the audit fee and non-audit fees payable to the Groups external auditors: the external auditors effectiveness and plan for the audit of the Groups 2011 12 accounts, which included conrmations of auditor independence and the proposed audit fee, and approving the terms of engagement for the audit: an annual report on the Groups systems of internal control and their effectiveness, reporting to the Board on the results of the review and receiving regular updates on key risk areas of financial control: the risks associated with major business programmes: and the internal audit functions terms of reference, its 2011 12 work programme and regular reports on the key issues arising from its work during the year.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 77 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Corporate governance statement Continued The Committee has authority to investigate any matters within its Nomination Committee terms of reference, to access resources, to call for information and to Introduction from the Chairman of the Nomination Committee obtain external professional advice at the cost of the Company.
The role of the Nomination Committee is to review the structure, No-one other than the members of the Committee is entitled to be size and composition of the Board and the Board Committees present at meetings.
However, the Chairman: Finance Director: Group and consider succession planning for directors and senior Financial Controller: Director, Tax and Treasury: Director, Internal management, to ensure that the Company has the correct balance Audit: and external auditors are normally invited to attend.
Others may of skills, experience and knowledge to meet the changing needs of be invited to attend by the Committee.
The papers for and minutes the Company.
The Nomination Committee supports the Board with of each Committee meeting are sent to all directors.
At least once a the review of the talent pipeline for senior management roles.
This year, there is an opportunity for the external auditors, the Director, is particularly important in a multi-industry global company with a Internal Audit and the Senior Vice President & General Counsel five division structure, where talented individuals in one division may Ethics & Compliance to discuss matters with the Committee without not be personally known to the leadership team in another division.
any executive management being present.
The Director, Internal In July 2012 the Nomination Committee carried out a detailed Audit, the Director of Business Ethics and the external auditors have review of talent management and succession planning across the direct access to the Chairman of the Committee outside formal Group, facilitated by the Group HR director and the Group Director of Committee meetings.
Particular focus was given to the resources The Committee reviews the nature and extent of non-audit services available to the Company in emerging markets and the challenges provided by the external auditors in order to ensure that objectivity of retaining managers in fast-growing economies.
Under the audit independence During the year the Nomination Committee also considered policy, approved by the Committee, certain non-audit services diversity issues, in the context of Lord Davies Report entitled may not be provided by the external auditors, certain services, not Women on Boards and the particular challenges facing the exceeding 10,000 in fees, require the approval of the Finance Director engineering industry, with its bias towards male candidates from and all other services require the approval of the Chairman of the entry level upwards.
Further information about the Boards policy Committee.
Where the cost of the services is expected to exceed on diversity is set out below.
100,000, the engagement will normally be subject to competitive tender.
The external auditors have in place processes to ensure that Donald Brydon, CBE their independence is maintained including safeguards to ensure Chairman of the Nomination Committee that where they provide non-audit services, their independence is not threatened.
The external auditors have written to the Audit Committee conrming that, in their opinion, they are independent and the Audit Nomination Committee Committee concurs with that view.
Eligible to attend Attended D. H. Brydon Chairman 4 4 B. F. J. Angelici 4 3 D. J. Challen 4 4 S. J.
Chambers retired 1 July 2012 3 3 T. D. Fratto appointed 1 July 2012 1 1 A. C. Quinn 4 3 K. R. Tebbit 4 4 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 78 During the financial year the members of the Committee were: Mr Remuneration Committee Brydon Chairman of the Committee, Mr Angelici, Mr Challen, Ms Introduction from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Quinn and Sir Kevin Tebbit.
Mr Chambers ceased to be a member The role of the Remuneration Committee is to make of the Committee when he retired from the Board on 1 July 2012. recommendations to the Board on the Companys remuneration Ms Fratto was appointed to the Committee at the same time as her framework, giving full consideration to the matters set out in appointment to the Board on 1 July 2012. the Code.
The Committee also agrees with the Board the policy The Committee leads the process for identifying and makes for the remuneration of the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the recommendations to the Board regarding candidates for appointment Finance Director and senior management.
The Committee as directors of the Company and as Company Secretary and their sets the remuneration for these individuals within the agreed removal or retirement, giving full consideration to succession policy having regard to a number of factors, including their planning and the leadership needs of the Group.
It also makes performance, remuneration across the Company and market recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Nomination positioning.
The Committee takes note of the policies and trends Committee and the composition and chairmanship of the Audit and in remuneration across the whole Group in relation to all levels of Remuneration Committees.
It reviews regularly the structure, size and employees.
Further information about the activities and focus of the composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, knowledge Remuneration Committee during the year is set out in the Directors and experience and the independence of the non-executive directors, remuneration report.
and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
Anne Quinn, CBE The Nomination Committee instructed an independent recruitment Chair of the Remuneration Committee agency to search for an additional member of the Board with a detailed brief of the capabilities and attributes required, which included the benets to the Board of diversity in its widest sense gender, nationality, Remuneration Committee Eligible to age, experience, background.
After an extensive search and interview attend Attended process, which involved almost every member of the Board, the A. C. Quinn Chair from 10 July 2012 5 5 Nomination Committee was pleased to recommend to the Board the appointment of Ms Tanya Fratto as a non-executive director and as a S. J.
Chambers retired 1 July 2012 Chairman until 1 July 2012 4 4 member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
This means that two out of the Companys eight directors i. e. 25% are D. H. Brydon 5 4 B. F. J. Angelici 5 5 women and five nationalities are represented on the Board.
D. J. Challen 5 5 In his Chairmans Statement last year, the Chairman explained T. D. Fratto appointed 1 July 2012 1 1 that the Board supported Lord Davies aspiration for female board K. R. Tebbit 5 4 representation, but this presented a particular challenge for a small board.
He also explained that the proportion of women executives in Mr Angelici, Mr Brydon, Mr Challen, Ms Quinn and Sir Kevin Tebbit senior positions in the Company was a reection of the masculine were members of the Committee throughout the financial year.
nature of the engineering industry globally.
Nonetheless, as described Mr Chambers ceased to be a member of the Committee when he above, when the Nomination Committee came to recruit for a new retired from the Board on 1 July 2012.
Ms Fratto was appointed to Board director, it included the diversity of the Board amongst several the Committee at the same time as her appointment to the Board on criteria and considerations and was successful in recruiting Ms Fratto.
Ms Quinn was appointed as Chair of the Committee in The Nomination Committee and the Board are committed to ensuring succession to Mr Chambers.
diversity is included within the remit for appointments at all levels in The Committees responsibilities and terms of reference are described the Company, but does not think it is appropriate to set specic Groupwide targets or objectives at this stage.
in the Directors remuneration report on page 80.
The Committee reviews its terms of reference and effectiveness annually and The Committee meets periodically when required.
No-one other than recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of such members of the Committee is entitled to be present at meetings but review.
The annual review of the Committees Terms of Reference was the Chief Executive is normally invited to attend and external advisers conducted in July 2012. may be invited by the Committee to attend.
The Committee has access to such information and advice both from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it deems necessary.
This may include the appointment of external search consultants, where appropriate.
The Committee reviews annually its terms of reference and effectiveness and recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of such review.
The annual review of the Committees terms of reference was conducted in July 2012.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 79 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
