Strategic Review Business Review Corporate Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Additional Information SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 2 Corporate Governance Report HOW WE FULFIL OUR COMMITMENT TO THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Dear Shareholders we undertake to ensure Director independence is he Company is committed to the I am pleased to present this introduction to our 2012 retained and how the Board seeks to balance the principles contained in the UK Corporate Corporate Governance Report the CG Report, benets of experience and refreshment.
Governance Code the Code that was which describes how we have implemented and Tissued in 2010 by the Financial Reporting applied the principles of the UK Corporate During the 2012 evaluation, Board members Council and for which the Board is accountable Governance Code the Code.
SOCO is committed to highlighted the importance of reporting corporate to shareholders.
the highest standards of governance.
We welcome and social responsibility matters, including regular the development of corporate governance guidance updates on social projects and the involvement of The Company has applied the principles set out as it continues to evolve from the current 2010 Code an external advisor to provide the right balance of in the Code, as described below and, in connection through to the new Code published in September engagement with stakeholders.
Directors reiterated with Directors remuneration, in the Directors 2012 which becomes effective for our 2013 their belief in the benets of increasing diversity, Remuneration Report.
in particular gender diversity, of the Board and reiterated the need to focus on diversity and Statement of Compliance with the Code Last year I reported on our first externally facilitated independence in future recruitment.
The following Throughout the year ended 31 December 2012, Board evaluation which the Code recommends to be pages provide further detail of how we full our the Company has complied with the provisions undertaken at least once every three years.
As the commitment to good corporate governance, and in set out in the Code.
Directors had expressed an appreciation for the fresh particular those principles related to the role and perspective and new insight brought about by the effectiveness of the Board.
Board of Directors A externally facilitated process, the Board decided to The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial follow up the 2011 results with the external facilitator Rui fide Sousa leadership and develop strategy, values and in 2012.
In particular, Directors were asked if they Chairman standards while maintaining prudent and effective would have answered any questions set out in the controls to assess and manage risk.
The Board is 2011 evaluation differently a year later.
This process responsible for ensuring that the Company meets revealed tangible improvements in areas that were its obligations to stakeholders and has adequate identied in the 2011 evaluation for development.
resources to meet its strategic objectives.
The Board The facilitators report indicates that the Directors of Directors, whose names and biographical details consider the Board to be well organised, with a are set out on pages 40 and 41, comprises ten balance of skills and a high level of knowledge and Directors in addition to the Chairman.
After an participation which sets very high standards that are assessment process set out in more detail below, reected throughout the Group.
six of these ten, including the Senior Independent Director, have been identied in the Annual Report The external facilitator again focused on the e of the Directors on page 44 as independent in independence of Directors and reported that e at ea ach ch character and judgement giving full consideration Director, in confidence, repeated their strong b g be elief in lief in to those circumstances that the Code states may the continued independence of their fellow D Dire irec ct to or rs s.. appear relevant.
Notwithstanding this, the Board The CG Report sets out full details of the proc ce es sses ses is satisfied that each of the Companys Directors strictly abides by their legal and ethical duties owed to the Company to act objectively and in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive officer are separated and their responsibilities are clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive collectively are responsible for the leadership of the Company.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive is responsible for leading the executives and ensuring their effectiveness in the 47 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 GOVERNANCE 2 Corporate Governance Report continued Non-Executive Directors service reflects the long term nature of our projects 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Project Case Study Recognising Cornerstone opportunity 1 of the portfolio: Capturing Cuu Long Basin, potential 2 Vietnam Board members tenure Rui fide Sousa Michael Johns Olivier Barbaroux Robert Cathery Ettore Contini Antnio Monteiro John Norton Mike Watts Project milestones Block 16-1: Petroleum Contract signed Block 9-2: Petroleum Block 9-2: CNV eld Contract signed discovered running of the Companys business and They are responsible for reporting the performance Company Secretary implementing strategy and policy.
Together and strategic direction of the Group to the Board and The Company Secretary, who is appointed by the Chairman and Chief Executive officer are for providing accurate, timely and clear information to the Board, is responsible for facilitating the responsible for promoting the highest standards enable the Board to make sound decisions.
communications and processes of the Board, both of integrity and probity.
within the Board and its committees and with The Non-Executive Directors, who undertake a management, in compliance with Board procedures Executive and Non-Executive Directors supervisory role, contribute to the development and governance guidelines.
The Secretary facilitates Executive Directors are responsible for implementing of strategic proposals through constructive probing an induction programme for new Directors on the Boards agreed strategy through the development based on review and analysis that brings to bear appointment, which is tailored to the new Directors of an appropriate business plan and for executing the particular skills, experience and knowledge individual qualications and experience.
The Secretary actions approved by the Board in accordance with each brings to the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors provides advice and service as may be required in the relevant authorities.
The division of responsibilities review managements performance and ensure that ongoing discharge of the Directors duties, including between the Executive Directors is set by the Board.
the systems in place provide adequate and effective ensuring that the Company provides the necessary financial, operational and compliance controls and resources for access to independent advice and any The Executive Directors provide the leadership of the risk management.
They must be satisfied that they individual professional training and development needs senior managers in the day-to-day running of the have sufficient information for the discharge of their agreed with each Director.
Additionally, brieng Groups business and manage the Groups risk duties, which may be achieved through dialogue with sessions are provided in the course of regular Board programmes including the environmental, health, management, training where appropriate to update meetings and Committee meetings on relevant issues safety and social performance of the business.
their knowledge or skills and consultation with as deemed appropriate, including in relation to They must ensure the Company has adequate independent professional advisors as required.
corporate governance and social responsibility as well financial and human resources to meet its objectives.
as new and evolving statutory and other compliance matters.
48 Strategic Review Business Review Corporate Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Additional Information SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Year Realising value 3 Block 16-1: TGT eld Block 16-1: Block 16-1: discovered First oil First oil from TGT from TGT Block 9-2: First oil H1-WHP H4-WHP from CNV Board Balance, Diversity and Independence to individual merit, experience, independence and evaluations conducted in 2011 and 2012 see the The Board recognises the need for an appropriate complementary Board skills.
The Board has benefitted Nominations Committee section on page 55 balance of critical attributes, including skills, from gender diversity around the Board table with continue to confirm the Boards position concerning experience, diversity, independence and knowledge participation by Ms Cynthia Cagle, the Vice President independence, which emphasises that an individuals of the Company.
Accordingly, it continually seeks, Finance and Company Secretary, at formal and independence cannot be determined arbitrarily on the within an appropriate Board size, to manage a balance informal meetings of the Board and its committees.
basis of a set period of time or by a set period of between each important element in its composition, In December 2012, the Board appointed Ms Cagle as concurrent tenure with an Executive Director.
Each of including Executive representation, independence, an Executive Director.
The Board recognises that while the Non-Executive Directors tenure has run diversity, tenure and refreshment.
The Board identied this appointment provides the benets of diversity concurrently with the Chief Executive and Deputy Chief this area as a matter for particular scrutiny in its recent and increased Executive representation, it also Executive, both of whom have been in ofce from the externally facilitated Board evaluations, as discussed expands the Board and thereby reduces the proportion Companys initial listing.
The Company manages a under the Nominations Committee section on page 55. of independent Directors.
The Board will continue to portfolio of long term, complex projects and benets A focus on succession planning, including increasing manage its composition, as demonstrated by the focus from long-serving Directors with detailed knowledge Board balance in both independence and diversity, on both independence and diversity established for of the Companys operations and with the proven has been established as a matter of priority in future recruitment stated above.
commitment, experience and competence to future recruitment.
effectively advise and oversee the Companys The Board embraces the underlying principles of the management on behalf of the shareholders.
The The Board recognises the benets of diversity and Code provisions regarding tenure and refreshing of Company seeks to ensure its Directors are focused on reported in 2011 that it had established gender the Board, and seeks to strike an appropriate balance a long term approach and, therefore, does not impose diversity in particular as a priority for future between continuity of experience and succession.
xed term limits as this would result in a loss of recruitment, in addition to the continued attention The findings of the externally facilitated Board experience and knowledge without assuring increased 49 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 GOVERNANCE 2 Corporate Governance Report continued Extract from the 2012 Board Evaluation As part of the Board Evaluation process, an external facilitator conducted interviews in confidence with each of the Directors and reported to the Board on the outcome of those interviews.
Accordingly, the Boards assessment of their individual viewpoints, debate issues and Extract: independence is of prime importance to ensure that objectively scrutinise and challenge management.
retention of experience does not result in a failure to Independent Directors Each seeks clarification and amplication as deemed Respondents were asked if they had seen retain a sufficient contingent of independent Directors.
required, including through direct access to the any compromises in the independence of Groups employees and external advisors.
After careful Non-Executive Directors, particularly The independence of each Non-Executive Director is consideration of the relevant factors, the Board has assessed at least annually.
Independence is those on the Board more than nine years.
determined that the tenure of these Directors has not additionally identied as a matter for increased scrutiny affected their independence or their ability to bring in the externally facilitated Board evaluation, as All respondents considered there to judgement to bear in the discharge of their duties have been no such compromises of described more fully in the Nominations Committee as Board and Committee members.
The Board section of this report.
To be identied as independent independence.
Indeed a couple considers that the varied and relevant experience commented that they considered that a Director must be determined to be independent both of its independent Directors combined provide an in character and in judgement and free from any Directors were showing signs of further exceptional balance of skills and experience required independence as their tenure lengthened.
relationships or circumstances which are likely to for the business.
affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement Others commented that all expressed their own views and, specically were including in particular those set out in the Code.
Reappointment Particular scrutiny is applied in assessing the continued independent of management.
Although In accordance with the Code, all Directors are subject none were solicited, views expressed on independence of Directors having served over nine to annual election by shareholders.
Reappointment of years, with attention to ensuring that interactions with the independent Directors included: each Director is recommended in consideration of the Executive Directors have not in any way eroded their results of individual evaluation and demonstrated independence and that their allegiance remains clearly Olivier Barbaroux has a: continued satisfactory performance, commitment very good long-term vision and global aligned with shareholders.
Board refreshment and and effectiveness.
Consideration is given to the broad mind, and not afraid constructively to tenure are considered together, and weighed for capabilities represented on the Board and the ability promote a minority view.
relevant benefit in the foreseeable circumstances, of these to meet the unique challenges facing the given further that the Board should not be enlarged to Company.
Consideration is additionally given to the Bob Cathery is: a size that is unwieldy.
balance of the Boards composition and the need for always comfortable in asking diversity and refreshment.
A Non-Executive Director constructively challenging questions In conducting its current assessment of Non-Executive term exceeding six years is subject to particularly as part of overall Board discussions and Director independence, the Board referred to guidance rigorous review.
as counter-intuitively insightful as ever.
setting out criteria deemed relevant to determining whether a Director continues to exhibit those qualities The process for considering reappointments is Michael Johns has: and behaviours it considers essential to be considered described more fully in the Nominations Committee different experience and perspectives independent.
A specic set of focused criteria was section on page 55.
Following this process, the Board which are a welcome addition to the applied to the assessment of long-tenured Directors.
recommends the reappointment of the retiring Directors, Board, and he has been an incisive new Consideration was also given to the results of individual who have each offered themselves for reappointment.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
evaluation and continued satisfactory performance as The Chairman, having given consideration to the results well as each Directors ability to allocate sufficient time of the Boards formal evaluation process and other Antnio Monteiro provides: to discharge their respective Board and Committee relevant factors, is satisfied that the Non-Executive really useful insight into what feels right responsibilities.
Following assessment, Mr Michael Directors continue to demonstrate the commitment level in particular circumstances.
Johns, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, appropriate and to be effective in fullment of the Ambassador Antnio Monteiro and Dr Mike Watts responsibilities of the role.
John Norton provides: were determined to be independent.
Any outside links a most independent contribution to other Directors have either ceased or are not Succession and Appointments including in expressing different considered significant and in particular do not result The Companys process for succession seeks to perspectives and pointing out questions in reciprocal inuence.
ensure that the Board comprises an appropriate that the Company should be asking itself.
balance of knowledge, skills, independence, After particular scrutiny, Mr John Norton, Mr Olivier experience and diversity.
The Company has an Mike Watts has: Barbaroux and Mr Robert Cathery, each having served ongoing process for assessing the specic unique and valuable technical and on the Board for more than nine years, were competencies required on the Board, giving geological experience.
Each of these Directors consideration to relevant factors arising from Board continues to display an appropriate independence from and individual Director evaluations, including Executive Directors.
They each continue to express effectiveness and time commitment.
50 Strategic Review Business Review Corporate Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Additional Information SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 After assessment of the competencies required, Companys leadership.
Excluding the Chairman, the Board Structure and Process B the Board is satisfied that the current Non-Executive Board seats four long-tenured Non-Executive The Board typically has four scheduled meetings Directors comprise an appropriate balance of Directors, who serve on the Board along with three a year and holds additional meetings as necessary.
knowledge, skills, independence and experience.
newly appointed over the last four years.
The Company During 2012, the Board held four scheduled meetings As reported last year, the Board established diversity considers it has achieved an appropriate balance as deemed required for the effective discharge of its as a priority for recruitment.
In 2012, the Board between the benets of continuity and refreshment.
There was full attendance of appointed Ms Cynthia Cagle as an Executive Director, The Company has additionally sought to maximise the Directors at scheduled Board meetings and full which the Board considers will provide the benefit of benets of independence, refreshment and continuity attendance of members at the Audit, Remuneration diversity while additionally increasing Executive in constituting each of its Committees.
and Nominations Committees as set out in the representation with sector, finance and table below.
Board appointments are made in consideration of the process for succession and objective criteria which are The Board determines the Companys business Succession planning will continue to allow for developed in consideration of the assessment of Board strategy and provides the entrepreneurial leadership refreshment while maximising continuity of experience, competencies and attributes.
Appointments are made required to ensure its strategic aims can be achieved.
which is considered to be in the best interests of through a formal process led by the Nominations The Board operates within a formal framework of shareholders.
SOCO considers a Non-Executive Committee, which is set out in more detail in the decision making designed to reserve matters of Directors most appropriate term of ofce as generally Nominations Committee section on page 55.
Following establishing the strategy, business plan and nature or longer than that envisioned in Code guidelines.
an appointment, the Company Secretary facilitates scope of the Companys business to the Board.
Under The Company undertakes projects requiring long term a process of induction and assimilation determined this framework, authority for implementing the strategy life cycles starting from licence negotiation through to appropriate to the appointees particular role and decisions taken by the Board is largely delegated production operations.
Longstanding Directors who and experience.
to the Executive Directors and management within a have acquired, over a number of years, a sound and system of internal controls designed to enable the risks detailed knowledge of the Companys business are of the Group to be managed effectively.
Additionally, highly valued as uniquely qualied to contribute to the the Board has established clear expectations for the Meeting Attendance by Directors Audit Committee Remuneration Nominations Annual General Board Meeting Meeting Committee Meeting Committee Meeting Meeting R fide Sousa M Johns O Barbaroux R Cagle C Cagle appointed Dec 2012 R Cathery E Contini A Monteiro J Norton E Story M Watts There was full attendance of Directors at scheduled Board meetings and of members at scheduled Committee meetings.
Precedes Board appointment 51 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 GOVERNANCE 2 Corporate Governance Report continued Companys economic, social and environmental conduct to promote the highest level of integrity and Board structure honesty in meeting its obligations to its stakeholders.
SOCOs Board membership comprises a broad range The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of skills, knowledge and experience, which is critical and develop strategy, values and standards: maintain to the success of the Company.
The Board functions prudent and effective controls to assess and manage risk: as a unitary body, within which Directors assume meet obligations to stakeholders: maintain adequate certain roles to ensure the Board as a whole fulls its resources to meet strategic objectives.
These roles, including committee memberships, are designed to maximise the effective contribution of each of the Non-Executive Directors to the Board, its committees and to the Executive Responsibility Directors, while ensuring an appropriate balance is for the review of the internal controls maintained.
The composition of the Board and its Audit effectiveness: oversight of the committees is in accordance with Code guidelines.
selection of and relationship with Committee At least annually, the Non-Executive Directors meet external auditors: review and without the Executives present and, led by the Senior monitoring of the integrity of Members: 4 Independent Director, meet without the Chairman financial statements: review of risk present.
Such meetings are conducted in the spirit management processes: advise on of good governance and process, and are intended corporate governance compliance.
to ensure a forum for open dialogue without disruption of Board unity.
Conicts of Interest C Directors have power to authorise, where appropriate, a situation where a Director has, or can Board of have, a direct or indirect interest that conicts, or Directors possibly may conict, with the Companys interests.
Such authority is in accordance with section 175 of the Members: 11 2006 Companies Act.
Procedures are in place for ensuring that the Boards powers of authorisation are operated effectively.
Directors are required to notify the Company of any conicts of interest or potential conicts of interest that may arise, before they arise either in relation to the Director concerned or their connected persons.
The decision to authorise each Remuneration Nominations situation is considered separately on its particular facts.
Only Directors who have no interest in the matter Committee Committee are able to take the relevant decision and must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to Members: 3 Members: 5 promote the Companys success.
The Directors will impose such limits or conditions as they deem Responsibility Responsibility appropriate when giving authorisation or when an for a Company-wide remuneration for recommendations regarding the actual conict arises.
These may include provisions policy that is aligned with the Companys appointment and reappointment of relating to condential information, attendance at business strategy and setting the total Directors and Committee memberships: Board meetings and availability of Board papers, remuneration packages of the Executive review of Board structure, composition and along with other measures as determined appropriate.
Directors, and Non-Executive Chairman: succession planning: the process for The Board reviews its conict authorisations at monitoring remuneration practices evaluating the Board and its members.
52 Strategic Review Business Review Corporate Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Additional Information SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Account ability and Audit Council in 2005 the Turnbull Guidance, for identifying, annually the need to establish such a function.
D Directors and Auditors Responsibilities evaluating and managing the significant risks the The Companys current staff size limits the ability The responsibilities of the Directors and auditors are Group faces.
to form an effective internal audit function and, set out in the Annual Report of the Directors on pages accordingly, the Company outsources any internal 43 to 46 and in the Independent Auditors Report on The Board regularly reviews the process, which is audit requirements.
page 69. constantly evolving to meet the demands of a dynamic environment.
Relations with Shareholders Going Concern The Executive Directors are responsible for ensuring The Groups financial statements have been prepared In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Code, the effective communication is maintained with key on a going concern basis as described in the Financial effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, stakeholders and partners, including establishing an Review on page 24 and the Annual Report of the including financial, operational and compliance appropriate level of contact with major shareholders Directors on page 45. controls and risk management, is regularly reviewed and ensuring that their views are communicated to the by the Directors.
The review is based principally on Board.
The Non-Executive Directors are responsible Risk Management and Internal Control discussions with management and on reviewing for taking sufficient steps to understand these views, The Directors are responsible for establishing, reports provided by management to consider whether including any issues or concerns.
maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness of a sound significant risks are identied, evaluated, managed system of internal control which is designed to provide and controlled, but also may include independent SOCO maintains an open and active dialogue with reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of interaction with employees or third parties.
The Company maintains a website financial information and to safeguard the scrutiny is applied to the review of controls applicable wherein important information can be posted and shareholders investment and the assets of the to new or evolving areas of risks as they are identied.
disseminated promptly to a wide audience and through Company and Group.
Given the inherent limitations which shareholders can electronically interface with in any system of internal control, even a sound system The Board considers whether appropriate actions are executive management.
At a minimum, the Company can only provide reasonable assurance, and not taken promptly to correct any significant weaknesses provides three personal communication forums absolute assurance, that the Company will not be identied, and if more extensive monitoring may be annually the Annual General Meeting AGM, the hindered in achieving its business objectives or be required.
The Board confirms that such actions as presentation of Annual Results and the presentation protected against material misstatement or loss.
deemed necessary and appropriate have been or of Half Year Results whereby shareholders can directly The Board has put in place formally dened lines of are being taken to remedy any significant failings or interface with Company executive management.
responsibility and delegation of authority and has weaknesses identied in its review.
The Board seeks Notice of the AGM is circulated to all shareholders delegated to executive management the to ensure that internal control and risk management at least 20 working days prior to the meeting, and implementation of material internal control systems.
processes, including dealing with any identied areas resolutions are proposed for each substantially Documented policies and procedures are in place of improvement, are embedded within the business.
The result of proxy voting is announced for key systems and processes and the authority of after votes are taken on a show of hands.
Directors the Directors is required for key matters.
The Board has performed a specic assessment for including the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration the purpose of this Annual Report and Accounts, and Nominations Committees are available to answer A comprehensive budgeting process is in place for all which considers all significant aspects of internal shareholder questions and to respond to any items of expenditure and an annual budget is approved control arising during the period, and is satisfied with specic queries.
Actual results are reported against the process employed and the results thereof.
The budget on a regular basis.
Revised forecasts for the Audit Committee spearheads the Board in discharging The Company has assigned a senior executive the year and longer term financial projections are its review responsibilities.
Audit Committee responsibility for investor relations and has employed produced regularly throughout the year.
membership comprises highly experienced an outside agency, both to provide assistance in the professionals with complementary areas of expertise dissemination of information to shareholders and the The Board has the primary responsibility for identifying in the oil and gas sector and each Committee member general public and to actively solicit feedback as to the major business risks facing the Company and makes an important contribution to the assurance the effectiveness of such efforts.
Additionally, the Group and developing appropriate policies to manage process.
Each member undertakes specic review Company maintains an ongoing, active dialogue with those risks.
The risk management approach is used to processes in their areas of financial and audit, institutional shareholders, specically and proactively focus attention on the Groups most significant areas technical and operating, diplomatic and commercial seeking opportunities for face-to-face meetings at of risk and to determine key control objectives.
The and legal expertise and reports the results of their least twice a year, coincident with half year and full Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code, by work to the full Committee and to the Board.
year results, between fund managers and Company establishing a continuous process, which has been in executive management.
In 2012, the Company has place throughout the year to the date of this report and Internal Audit Function continued an increased dialogue with shareholders which is in accordance with revised guidance on Although the Company does not currently have an and other stakeholders regarding its corporate and internal control published by the Financial Reporting internal audit function, the Directors review at least social responsibility policies and procedures.
53 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 GOVERNANCE 2 Corporate Governance Report continued Brokers reports are discussed at scheduled Board a continuous basis and a formal assessment is meetings and public relations and analysts reports are conducted at least annually.
The Committee has been distributed to the full Board.
Non-Executive Directors delegated the responsibility for advising the full Board are made available to communicate with SOCOs major on compliance with the Code, including its risk institutional shareholders, and particularly to be management and internal control requirements, as well responsive when additional communication from the as compliance with evolving guidance on corporate Chairman, Senior Independent or other Non-Executive governance issues generally.
The Committees Directors has been requested.
The Chairman regularly activities undertaken in the discharge of its duties interfaces with other principal shareholders.
The Board are regularly reported to the Board.
considers whether additional communication may be Committee appropriate or desirable.
In particular, the delegated Composition of the Audit Committee role of the Senior Independent Director includes being The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr John Norton memberships available to shareholders if they have concerns which and additionally comprises Mr Michael Johns, the cannot be fully or appropriately addressed by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, and are reviewed in Chairman or the Executive Directors.
Ambassador Antnio Monteiro and Dr Mike Watts, both of whom are independent Non-Executive Committees Directors.
The qualications of each of the members order to ensure E The Board has established three Committees, are set out on pages 40 and 41.
The Board is satisfied as described below, each having formal terms of that the collective experience of the members includes optimum utilisation reference TOR approved by the Board which set out relevant and recent financial experience and provides its delegated role and authority.
The TORs, which are the complement of skills required for the Committee of competencies available for inspection, are set in consideration of the to discharge its functions effectively.
In particular, provisions of the Code and are reviewed from time to Mr Norton is a Chartered Accountant and a former time in the context of evolving guidance.
Committee member of the Oil Industry Accounting Committee.
memberships are reviewed in order to ensure optimum Although Mr Norton is a longstanding Director, his utilisation of competencies on the Board while professional experience fully prepared him for maintaining a balance between the benets of maintaining independence and objectivity in this refreshment and continuity.
Each Directors specic circumstance and the Board is completely satisfied Committee memberships, including as Chairmen, that these attributes are diligently applied in the are set out on pages 40 to 41.
Attendance at discharge of his duties.
scheduled committee meetings by all members serving during the period is set out in the table on Meetings page 51.
While only Committee members are entitled The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year.
to attend meetings and vote, Directors in advisory roles The Chief Financial officer and a representative of the are generally invited to attend and other Directors may external auditors are normally invited to attend be invited to attend from time to time to ensure the meetings.
Other Directors are invited to attend as Committees responsibilities are undertaken with determined appropriate or beneficial.
At least once access to the Boards full breadth of knowledge and a year the Committee meets with the external auditors experience.
The Company Secretary ensures that the without executive Board members present.
Company additionally provides such resources as the Committees require in the discharge of their duties.
The Committee held three meetings in 2012 and has conducted one meeting to date in 2013, all of which Audit Committee were attended by executive management and external The Audit Committees primary responsibilities include auditors.
A private session, without the Executives reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys and the present, was held during two of these meetings.
Groups systems of internal control, overseeing the Additionally, a number of other informal meetings and selection of and relationship with external auditors and communications took place between the Chairman, the review and monitoring of the integrity of financial various Committee members, external auditors and statements.
The Committee is responsible for review the Companys executives and employees.
of the Groups major financial, operational and corporate responsibility risk management processes.
The effectiveness of these processes is monitored on 54 Strategic Review Business Review Corporate Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Additional Information SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Overview of Activities On behalf of the Board, the Committee has reviewed appointed the Companys auditors as advisors.
The Chairman reported to the Board on the the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls The advisors terms of reference restrict the provision Committees activities at each scheduled Board and risk management systems, including consideration of certain services in order to maintain auditor meeting.
The Committee reviewed and approved the of an internal audit function, which is more fully independence and the scope and value of services terms and scope of the audit engagement, the audit described in the Risk Management and Internal Control to the Group is under continuous review.
plan and the results of the audit with the external section of this report.
The Committee has reviewed auditors, including the scope of services associated and approved the related compliance statements set The Committee approved the non-audit services with audit-related regulatory reporting services.
The Committee has additionally reviewed provided by the external auditors in 2012, having An assessment of the effectiveness of the audit and approved the statements regarding compliance concluded such services were compatible with auditor process was made, giving consideration to reports with the Code.
The Committee reviewed and discussed independence and were consistent with relevant from the auditors on their internal quality procedures.
with management and the auditors the Companys ethical guidance.
Details of non-audit services are Additionally, auditor independence and objectivity were relevant financial information prior to recommendation set out in Note 9 to the financial statements.
assessed, giving consideration to the auditors for Board approval.
This included in particular the conrmation that their independence is not impaired, financial statements and other material information Nominations Committee the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the presented in the annual and half year reports.
The The Nominations Committee is chaired by Mr Rui fide external auditors as described below and the past Committee considered the significant financial Sousa, the Non-Executive Chairman of the Company.
service of the auditors who were first appointed, reporting issues, accounting policies and judgements Mr Ed Story, the Chief Executive officer, is a following a tendering process, in 2002.
The impacting the financial statements, and the clarity of Committee member.
Committee membership Committee also considered the likelihood of a disclosures.
The Committee conducted a review of its additionally comprises independent Non-Executive withdrawal of the auditor from the market and noted TOR for continued appropriateness.
Directors Dr Mike Watts, Ambassador Antnio that there are no contractual obligations to restrict Monteiro and Mr Michael Johns.
In addition, Mr John the choice of external auditors.
The Board concurred External Auditors Non-Audit Services Norton, Mr Olivier Barbaroux and Mr Robert Cathery with the Committees recommendation for the The external auditors are appointed primarily to act as Advisors to the Nominations Committee.
reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the Companys carry out the statutory audit and their continued auditors for 2013, which will be proposed to independence and objectivity is fundamental to that The Committee meets at least once a year.
Its primary shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
In view of their knowledge of the business, there responsibilities include making recommendations to may be occasions when the external auditors are best the Board regarding the appointment and The Committee undertook a detailed risk assessment placed to undertake other services on behalf of the reappointment of Directors and Committee whereby it reviewed existing risks and identied new Group.
The Audit Committee has a policy which sets memberships.
It is responsible for review and risks as appropriate.
The likelihood and signicance out those non-audit services which the external recommendations regarding overall Board structure of each risk was considered along with associated auditors may provide and those which are prohibited.
and composition, succession planning and establishing mitigating factors and was reported to the Board.
Within that policy, any non-audit service must be an ongoing process for evaluating the Board and its Any new risks or changes to existing risks were pre-approved by the Committee.
Further details of the discharge of these monitored throughout the year and considered at non-audit service, consideration is given to whether responsibilities are set out below in addition to sections each Audit Committee meeting.
As part of this process, the materiality of the fees, the nature of the service, or above regarding in particular board balance, the Committee has established a detailed bribery risk the level of reliance to be placed on it by SOCO would independence, diversity, succession and appointments.
assessment and mitigation procedure designed to create, or appear to create, a threat to independence.
ensure that the Company has appropriate procedures in If it is determined that such a threat might arise, The Committee held three meetings in 2012 and place to eliminate bribery and that all employees, agents approval will not be granted unless the Audit has conducted one meeting to date in 2013.
Other and other associated persons are made fully aware of Committee is satisfied that appropriate safeguards are Non-Executive Directors were in attendance at a the Groups policies and procedures.
The Committee applied to ensure independence and objectivity are not portion of these meetings by invitation.
Certain has reviewed and is satisfied with the Companys impaired.
The auditor is prohibited from providing any Committee functions were delegated to a subarrangements for whistleblowing, whereby staff may services which result in certain circumstances that committee, which acted on behalf of the Committee raise concerns regarding improprieties in confidence, have been deemed to present such a threat, including after an appropriate dialogue among Committee which would be addressed with appropriate follow-up auditing their own work, taking management decisions members to ensure a consensus of views.
To facilitate such reporting the Company has for the Group or creating either a mutuality or conict a number of other informal meetings and introduced an Ethics Hotline Service using an of interest.
The Company has taken steps to develop communications took place between the Chairman, independent, condential telephone service that can be resources and relationships in order to establish various Committee members and the Companys used by staff members and other stakeholders to report availability of alternate advisors for financial and other executives and employees.
a suspected breach of SOCOs Code of Business matters.
Additionally, the Committee closely monitors Conduct and Ethics.
The Committee reviews these the terms on which the Remuneration Committee, with arrangements annually.
approval of the Audit Committee, has independently 55 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 GOVERNANCE 2 Corporate Governance Report continued During the year the Committee reviewed Board In December 2012, the Committee recommended to The process was undertaken to enhance the quality structure, size and composition, including a prole the Board that Ms Cynthia Cagle be appointed to the of the Board and to improve its procedures through of the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity Board as an Executive Director.
Ms Cagle, Vice identifying and addressing strengths and weaknesses represented on the Board, which was utilised to President Finance and Company Secretary, has and assessing progress on initiatives resulting from facilitate the Boards review of Director independence, held an executive position with the Group since 1997, the 2011 evaluation.
The Chairman led discussions including tenure in particular.
The Committee made during which time she has attended all Board and with the Committee and the full Board regarding the recommendations to the Board concerning plans for Committee meetings.
She has an in depth knowledge results.
The Senior Independent Director facilitated succession reecting the need for refreshment while of the Companys Board and Committees procedures relevant discussions regarding the role of the taking into account the skills, experience and diversity and policies and is a Director of certain significant Chairman.
The results included a commitment by needed on the Board to best meet the specic subsidiaries of the Company.
Ms Cagles appointment the Board to continue its primary focus on corporate challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
increases the financial and corporate governance strategy.
The Board confirmed its commitment to a The results of these reviews were in turn utilised in experience represented on the Board and reects rigorous process for the assessment of independence developing the Committees recommendations the importance the Board attaches to these areas and remains satisfied that it has led to an appropriate regarding potential Board appointments as well as of expertise.
In appointing Ms Cagle the Committee designation of independent Directors.
The Board for continuation in ofce and reappointment of acknowledges that the proportion of independent established a focus on succession planning including retiring Directors.
Directors on the Board has been reduced.
However, increasing Board balance in both independence and in this instance and given the unique set of diversity as a matter of priority in future recruitment.
After giving consideration to Board structure and circumstances concerning Ms Cagles representation Management committed to further enhance its composition, evaluations, time commitments, length on the Board, her appointment was given priority.
reporting to the Board on governance and corporate of service, individual contributions, refreshment and As this was an appointment of a current executive responsibility programmes, including detailed and the requirements of the Board, the Committee to the Board, a search rm was not utilised.
regular reporting to the Board on the Companys recommended that each of the retiring Directors be The Board will prioritise independence in its future extensive stakeholder engagement, recognising the proposed for reappointment by the Board at the recruiting and, recognising the new guidance published Companys increased focus in this area.
in the UK Corporate Governance Code September being initiated as deemed appropriate.
Additionally, 2012, the Committee will continue to consider the the evaluation results were utilised to assess Director Process for Board Appointments benets of gender diversity.
effectiveness, time commitments of Non-Executive The Committee has a process in place for identifying Directors and training and development needs of each and nominating candidates to ll vacancies which Performance Evaluation Director, which were reviewed by the Chairman.
may arise from time to time, including ensuring Board During 2012, the Committee led the Board in The Committee performed a review of its TOR as membership is sufciently refreshed and retains evaluating its own performance and that of its part of this process.
an appropriate balance of skills and experience.
The Directors The Committee develops an appropriate description expressed an appreciation for the fresh perspective Remuneration Committee of the role, estimated time commitment and the and insight brought about by the externally facilitated The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr Michael capabilities and attributes which would complement process conducted in 2011, and engaged the same Johns, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director the composition of the Board and its Committees.
rm to conduct a follow-up evaluation in 2012.
The and additionally comprises independent Non-Executive The Committee would expect to utilise an independent evaluation was facilitated in confidence by Nautilus Directors Ambassador Antnio Monteiro and Dr Mike external advisor to facilitate any search.
A diverse list Management Limited, an independent rm that has Watts.
In addition Mr Olivier Barbaroux and Mr Robert of candidates is compiled and a rigorous review provided secretariat and governance advice to the Cathery act as Advisors.
The names and qualications process undertaken, involving other Board members Company.
The evaluation entailed both questionnaires of each of the members are set out on pages 40 to 41. as deemed appropriate.
Committee recommendations, and interviews including discussion regarding any The Committee is responsible for recommending for which are to be made on merit set against objective changes to answers provided in the prior year approval by the full Board the remuneration of the criteria and with due regard for the benets of evaluation.
The external facilitator sought evaluation Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company diversity, are submitted for full Board approval.
of the Board and its effectiveness as a whole, but with Secretary.
During 2012, the Committee conducted a The Company Secretary facilitates induction an emphasis on the critical issues the Board will face review of its TOR for continued effectiveness.
in the next three to five years and with increased of the Committees policies and objectives are set out scrutiny in areas including Board balance, Director in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 57 independence, the approach to gender diversity and to 65.
