Sustainability review continued US energy ef ciency success Spirax Sarco Inc, in Blythewood, South Carolina was recently commended by the US Department of Energy for its energy ef ciency accomplishments during 2012.
Furthermore, as a founding partner of the US Department of Energys Better Buildings, Better Plants Program, Spirax Sarco has joined over 100 other industrial rms in the US in a voluntary pledge to reduce the energy intensity of their manufacturing operations by 25% in 10 years.
Regional CO e emission intensity Regional CO e emission intensity in tonnes per m of sales 2 2 The geographical distribution of our business operations predominantly accounts for regional variations in CO e emission intensity.
2 While we have major manufacturing plants 54.6 strategically located in all market regions, tonnes EMEA contains eight of the Groups 12 major manufacturing facilities, as well as signi cantly more operating companies than the other two regions.
Packaging Spirax Sarco is successfully incorporating sustainability initiatives and reducing our environmental impact in innovative ways in the packaging of our products.
Within the UK, environmentally friendly, 100% recyclable, in atable AirPack protective packaging is now used wherever possible.
AirPack 24.4 reduces storage and shipping costs through tonnes its compact size and lightweight design and is fully recyclable or reusable by our customers.
Throughout the Group we aim to ensure 31.7 that all packaging is responsibly sourced.
tonnes For example, most cardboard packaging is made from recycled material and is fully biodegradable so that it can be safely Steam specialties factory site disposed of by the customer.
Watson-Marlow factory site In addition, wooden pallets used in the UK are produced using a species of fast growing northern European pine.
Each pallet is designed to be collapsible, saving storage and transportation costs, and is nail-less, being constructed using stainless steel hinges, so that it can be assembled and disassembled for repeated use.
34 Spirax Sarco Engineering PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategy and performance Sustainability 35 Saving energy and preventing The soil was heated using steam, and the land ll during a UK soil vapour that was emitted was captured decontamination project and passed through a system of activated When contaminated land specialist carbon beds that absorbed the toluene and Provectus decided to take a novel approach discharged clean air into the atmosphere.
to decontaminating the soil from an old Our solution successfully decontaminated printing works, Spirax Sarco provided the the site in only four weeks, prevented the steam system expertise to turn their ideas soil being sent to land ll and had higher into reality.
energy and water ef ciency than traditional Through many years of industrial use, the decontamination methods.
site in Somerset had been contaminated with Wed never seen a project like this toluene, a ammable solvent.
Developers and neither had the Environment were looking to extract the chemical from Agency personnel who inspected the the soil so that the land could be used safely operation, explained Provectus Director, for housing.
We had cleaned up the Spirax Sarco engineers devised a series of first batch of soil within two weeks and trombone-shaped coils, laid at across one the site is now suitable for even the most of the old concrete factory oors.
Several sensitive developments residential thousand metres of pipework were used housing with gardens.
Im more than happy to provide a heating area large enough to with the support we got from Spirax Sarco, ef ciently treat the batches of soil that were which helped us to complete the project so piled on top.
Waste management and recycling We are committed to increasing the number Employees working in operations with Reducing the amount of waste sent to of our operations with ISO 14001:2004 ISO 14001:2004 certification % land ll is essential for increasing approval, and a number of our operating 2011 47 sustainability.
Recycling schemes are in companies are either awaiting certi cation 2012 59 operation across the Group and we have or are implementing the procedures dedicated contractors to pro-actively necessary to acquire it.
manage waste, serving to minimise our Helping our customers to become more environmental impact.
environmentally sustainable Water management Our primary contribution to sustainability is We recognise that clean water is a valuable to develop technologies and products with resource that should be managed effectively an increasingly lower environmental impact.
to minimise our environmental impact.
It is We have the capability to respond to several our aim to improve our water management of the major environmental challenges, across the Group.
As part of this drive through the provision of low-emissions, to use water more effectively, during the low-carbon and renewable energy solutions.
construction of the new Technology Centre We use methodology, externally veri ed in the UK, we installed a 2,000 litre rainwater by AEA Group, to calculate the quantity harvesting tank which is used to ush of CO e emissions saved by our 2 lavatories at the site.
customers as a result of purchasing ISO 14001:2004 certi cation our energy saving products.
We calculate ISO 14001:2004 is an international standard that the energy saving products we sold Energy savings at Northumbrian Water relating to environmental management.
during 2012 will save our customers Spirax Sarco recently helped Certi cation to the standard provides approximately 4.9 million tonnes of CO e 2 Northumbrian Water to halve the energy assurance to the managers and employees annually.
Put another way, for every tonne it uses to raise steam at its Bran Sands of a company, as well as external of CO e emissions scope 1 and 2 that we 2 anaerobic digestion plant in Teesside, stakeholders, that the environmental produced during our business operations UK.
Mr Errington, of Northumbrian Water, impact of a business is being managed in 2012, our customers could save as much stated, Spirax Sarco are very good at and improved.
The certi cation process is as 187 tonnes of CO e annually.
Theyre very helpful and rigorous, requiring external auditing against very knowledgeable and we get a good The Group is dedicated to supplying prescribed standards, including waste response from them.
The energy savings exceptional quality products and solutions management and energy consumption.
Northumbrian Water which meet the requirements of our During 2012, five additional operating was so impressed by the service and customers in a manner consistent with high companies achieved the certi cation, solution provided by Spirax Sarco that they environmental and ethical standards.
These meaning that 59% of our employees now plan to work with us while constructing a principles form an integral part of the Groups work in a location with ISO 14001:2004 in new plant at Howden.
management processes and operations place, an increase from 47% in 2011. throughout the world.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35
