Sustainability review continued Donations made by the Trust included Our communities 10,000 to Open Door, a local Cheltenham Helping in our communities charity founded for the relief of poverty, The Group encourages its employees to hardship and distress among the homeless.
be involved in contributing their time and Winstons Wish, a national charity that resources towards improving the quality helps children to rebuild their lives following of life in the communities in which they live the death of a parent or sibling, received a and work.
We have a keen sense of our donation of 5,000, while the National Star community obligations and encourage College, which provides further education, a positive approach to our community training and development for young people relations, organising community events aged 16 to 25 with complex physical, sensory and activities worldwide.
Charitable donations In addition to donations made by the Trust, Spirax Sarco Korea service club The Spirax Sarco Group Charitable Trust our operating companies worldwide made In Spirax Sarco Korea there is a club Trust meets regularly throughout the year many donations to local charities and social called Help which reaches out to the to determine its donations to registered organisations.
Charitable donations made disabled and less fortunate in the local charities in the UK and worldwide.
by our operating companies amounted community through giving time and to 40,000 during 2012, giving a total of money to help those in need.
The Trust focuses its donations in the 172,000 across the Group.
following major areas: social services During winter, the club members deliver particularly for the less advantaged, As well as the charitable donations made by coal and welfare packages to those less disabled or abused, education, health care, the Trust and our operating companies, our fortunate than themselves.
In addition, it also people have independently undertaken many makes donations to charities that support fundraising events to raise money for a wide recovery efforts following natural disasters.
Examples from the UK include donations to the Frenchay This year the Trust made 45 donations, Group charitable Trust donations Unit Neuro Club, based on a childrens ward ranging from 750 to 15,000, in 2008-2012 000 of the Bristol Royal In rmary and to the accordance with its charitable donations 2008 81,000 British Heart Foundation.
policy, to a total value of 132,000.
2009 86,000 2010 112,000 2011 132,000 2012 132,000 Design a bike event, US Spirax Sarco Inc sponsored a bicycle charity event for the Boys and Girls Club of the Midlands in Blythewood, South Carolina.
Over 150 employees assembled and decorated bicycles for 18 excited children.
At the end of the event the children arrived to pick up their new bikes.
Stephen Gow, Director of Marketing, commented, Giving back to the community was a great experience.
All the employees had a lot of fun.
36 Spirax Sarco Engineering PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategy and performance Sustainability 37 Watson-Marlow sponsors technology Watson-Marlow donated the competitions The Falmouth School competition is just challenge at local school prize: a Computing Challenge Cup, plus 100 one of a number of technology-based As part of its aim to encourage engineers of in Amazon vouchers, and also invited the projects that Watson-Marlow sponsors in the future, Watson-Marlow Pumps Group nalists to visit its Falmouth facility, to nd out local schools, helping to encourage the next has teamed up with Falmouth School to more about how the Company operates and generation of engineers and technicians.
organise an Annual Computing Challenge.
the ways in which it prioritises technology and computing.
The Annual Computing Challenge proves that there is a wealth of talent in Cornwalls schools, which Watson-Marlow is proud to help nurture.
The education of young people in IT and technology is vital for building up a strong base of engineers that can grow the UKs technological expertise in the future.
In the first year of the competition, students at the local secondary school were challenged to create a computer game or app.
The competition proved hugely successful, attracting entries of a very high standard.
The winning entry was created by Gareth Willets, who devised a clever homage to the retro game Asteroids.
Other top entries included a maze-type platform game and an Android app that delivers the latest news on West Ham United Football Club.
Childrens Day, Mexico Mexicos Childrens Day, also known as El Da del Nio, is a unique festivity, full of laughter and play, when adults are reminded of the importance of childhood and children teach us how joyful and simple life can be.
Spirax Sarco, Mexico organised a special celebration and party for the children of its employees with the theme of a Big Top Circus Party.
A highlight of the party for many of the guests was a Grand Tour of the plant.
One attendee noted, Spirax Sarco is not just a company, or a great place to work, it is a great family!
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37 Sustainability review continued Thanks to the course we will be Our workplaces able to build our management and Spirax Sarco is a major international leadership capabilities.
In December 2012, the Group, I have learnt on the course is including our joint venture in India, immediately applicable to my role employed over 5,000 people in more and it is the most demanding course than 100 countries.
Communications Filip Prochazka, General Manager, Czech Republic and Slovakia We communicate with our people through a wide variety of channels, including regular To be involved in the course face-to-face team brie ngs, conference was a unique experience for me: calls and a number of intranet sites.
to work with colleagues from Feedback is sought on the effectiveness Employee survey, Spirax Sarco Italy other countries and share ideas of our communications and surveys have A recent survey of Spirax Sarco been instituted in many of our businesses to and knowledge was an employees in Italy established that 99% gauge the morale of our people and what is invaluable experience.
of workers found informational meetings, important to them.
Our aim is to ensure that Mario Montano, National Sales Manager, held by senior managers, helpful.
As a Mexico all our employees are informed about, and result of the survey it was decided to hold engaged in, their part of the business locally regular meetings with all employees to It is not just our senior employees who bene t while having a deeper understanding of the update them on Company objectives, from our investment in people.
In the UK, we Group overall and its future direction.
launched our online appraisal software in time for completion of the 2012 appraisals.
This will Talent and development help us to ensure that we have a consistent As a Group whose purpose is to deliver and fair way to appraise our employees products and services that help provide and identify their professional development our customers with effective solutions, it needs, while supporting our move towards a is second nature to make the health and performance culture.
It is our aim to roll out wellbeing of our own employees a priority.
We continue to support our people through training and development, so that they can In 2012 we launched our Knowledge grow professionally and meet the evolving Sustainability Programme to provide challenges of our industry.
During 2012 continued technical and sales training for we delivered 12,059 days of training to our all our sales and service engineers.
The 2,128 customer facing employees, across Programme is designed to co-ordinate the Group: an average of over one week of global training delivery and enhance the training per person.
technical expertise of all our customer facing employees, with the aim of increasing sales.
In 2011 we announced the launch of our To achieve our objectives we are: Spirax Sarco Leadership Academy and, in 2012, 12 of our future leaders attended delivering more training across the Group courses designed to help them learn consolidating, organising and expanding our new skills and prepare for increasing library of training materials to address our responsibility within the organisation.
The needs with regards to products, customer two week course, run by the Ashridge processes and sales skills Business School, is a Companyspeci c version of Ashridges Advanced multiplying and sharing training materials Management Programme.
The course across the Group to support local training demands a signi cant investment in our initiatives with global consistency.
Spirax Sarco, Mexico a great people, but we recognise that achieving Objectives 2 and 3 will be further developed place to work optimal business results is related to the in 2013 through the launch of a new online This year Spirax Sarco has been awarded expertise of our managers.
Key topics training tool, ensuring that even more of our 3rd place in the Best Place to Work covered on the course include: working with employees worldwide will have access to Regional Ranking for the northeast of people, driving growth and innovation, and much improved training.
Mexico, moving up from 8th place last delivering results.
The Company has also been certi ed as a Great Place to Work in Mexico.
Those who attended the Leadership Academy saw immediate bene ts of the training they received.
38 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategy and performance Sustainability 39 Engaging with our staff through the GEM concept At Watson-Marlow Pumps we encourage a culture of continuous improvement across our operations.
At the heart of this is our Global Excellence in Manufacturing GEM initiative that brings together and builds on the best systems, initiatives and policies from across our Group.
We are improving our business through empowering our employees, sharing best practice and creating an environment in which our people help to drive through initiatives.
GEM is also being used to identify key performance measures and opportunities for improvement, as well as record our successes.
GEM is making an impact on the way we go about our business.
At our Flexicon factory in Denmark we are engaging in active dialogue with our staff in order to nd new ways of making sustainability a collective responsibility.
We believe that GEM gives our employees a voice, which is central to fostering a culture in which they feel motivated and understand the importance of sustainability, as well as improving overall ef ciency within the business.
Health and safety We have a detailed management structure in A total of 361 accidents, injuries or incidents The health and safety of our employees is place to monitor health and safety standards were recorded during 2012.
We recognise our responsibilities across the Group.
Trained safety of cers 30 were classi ed as major reportable.
to ensure the well-being and safety of and committees assess their local working In each instance a full report was our employees and to maintain a safe environment and report their findings to the conducted and changes initiated to environment for visitors and subcontractors General Managers who each maintain a local prevent reoccurrence.
while they are on Company premises.
We policy and are responsible for ensuring that For example, a UK apprentice experienced obey the Health and Safety regulations of processes and standards are enforced.
The a case of dermatitis following time in each country in which we operate, and set General Managers report to the Divisional the Training Centre.
The incident report high standards across the Group.
Directors, who report directly to the Executive identi ed insuf cient training and monitoring Director responsible for HS&E.
All staff are instructed in the Groups Health of washing regimes.
Following the incident, and Safety Policy, which can also be viewed We apply above industry standard criteria for the Training Centre have revised their by all employees on the Companys intranet.
reporting accidents, injuries and health and induction to include more information on The policy is reviewed annually by the Group safety incidents, ensuring comprehensive dermatitis and how to prevent it, and all Risk Management Committee, and updated coverage across the Group.
All incidents are first year apprentices are now included in a to improve practice across the Group.
reported quarterly to the Executive Director health surveillance programme so that they responsible for HS&E, while all major injuries, can be checked and monitored.
Some of the main principles of the causing a person to be absent from work for An accident that caused a person to require three or more policy include: three or more days, work related incidents or days absence from work: an accident resulting in death: an accident or near miss that could have resulted in death, near miss accidents are reported immediately.
Managers must see that everything or a recognised disease that could have been caused by Improvements made to prevent a repeat of reasonably practicable is done to prevent their work.
the accident are reported within two days of injury at work and maintain a safe and the incident report.
healthy place of work Training must be provided to minimise health Our commitment to health and safety ensures and safety risks that we maintain a low accident incident rate.
During 2012 the accident incident rate across All accidents, incidents and near misses the Group was 65 per 1,000 employees must be recorded and used to guide 2011 : 70 per 1,000 employees.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39 Sustainability review continued Developing young talent The Company has a well-developed Cheltenham.
Successful individuals Spirax Sarco, UK apprenticeship system and is an approved from the scheme are offered a bursary Spirax Sarco, UK is adopting a provider of an advanced craft and for the remainder of their studies and co-ordinated approach to replenishing advanced technician SEMTA Sector Skills given conditional offers of employment.
its pipeline of talent for the future, by Council for Science, Engineering and investing in a number of early years Manufacturing pathway.
At the close of career programmes.
The Company has 2012, Spirax Sarco had 22 apprentices on established a partnership with the local its programme, providing them with skills Balcarras School, Cheltenham, and for successful employment.
provides pupils with careers and STEMNET Many undergraduate engineering students Science, Technology, Engineering and have bene ted from a year in industry Mathematics Network events, as well as placement with Spirax Sarco.
At year-end work placement opportunities.
2012, five students were on a placement in 40 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategy and performance Sustainability 41 Employment practices Anti-bribery and corruption If an employee thinks the Policy is not The Group seeks to make a positive impact We are proud of Spirax Sarcos corporate being observed they have a duty and an on the communities and environment in which reputation.
Our Group Management Code obligation to report the issue in accordance our employees work, through our operations, protects our reputation by requiring fairness, with the Groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption products and services, and our interactions honesty and transparency in everything we Policy.
All such reports will be investigated with our customers, colleagues and suppliers.
We expect everyone within the Group to appropriately.
All employees are expected to behave meet the standards set out in our Code to: Measures are in place to ensure ethically when working for the Company Comply with laws, regulations and Group complaints are treated con dentially to the and this is re ected in the detailed policies standards fullest extent possible.
Employees raising set out in both the Employee Handbook and legitimate concerns in good faith will be Reject bribery and corruption the Group Management Code including the protected to the fullest extent possible.
Groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Conduct business in a fair manner The Group will not permit retaliation of any and Competition Policy.
Ethical business Treat customers fairly kind against any employee for making good practices are integral to the Company and faith reports about an actual or suspected Maintain con dentiality of information are re ected in the practices relating to violation of this Policy.
recruitment, disciplinary matters Report with accuracy and honesty and grievances.
In 2012, the Group clari ed its Gifts, Act responsibly towards our people, Hospitality and Entertainment Policy communities and the environment.
The Group is fully committed to the principle which sets out the Groups position on the of equal opportunity in employment and We raise employee awareness of the Group giving and receiving of gifts, hospitality maintains a working environment free from Management Code through our induction and entertainment and employees discrimination, victimisation, harassment programme and by requiring everyone to responsibilities under this Policy.
The Company ensures that understand, accept and sign up to the Code.
Policy complements the Anti-Bribery and all applicants and employees receive The Group has an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and it aims to ensure equal treatment during their recruitment, Corruption Policy which forms part of the transparency, provide clarity on acceptable transfer, promotion and training, and in Group Management Code.
It applies to behaviour and comply with relevant the assessment of salary and bene ts all operating companies and all Directors, anti-bribery and corruption legislation.
irrespective of an individuals sex, race, of cers and employees of the Group.
gender reassignment, disability, sexual The aim of the Policy is to ensure the orientation, age, religion or belief, It is Group policy to conduct its business free highest standards of integrity are maintained pregnancy or maternity, marriage or of any bribery or corruption.
The Group will and that there can be no suggestion of civil partnership status.
not enter into contractual relationships with an improper motive behind an offer or third parties who are known to engage in acceptance of a gift or hospitality, or of We give full and fair consideration to corrupt practices and will not engage in the undue in uence on the recipient.
applications for employment made by giving or receiving of bribes or favours.
disabled persons, having regard to their Each operating company must keep an up particular aptitudes and abilities.
We have All existing and new directors, senior to date register of all gifts and entertainment policies in place to facilitate the continuing managers and employees who have regular hospitality, given or received, that exceed employment of those who may become contact with customers or suppliers, and are 100 per person for gifts, or 250 per disabled during the period in which they are therefore at risk of bribery and corruption, person for entertainment hospitality.
employed by the Company, and disabled must take part in the newly introduced The Register of Gifts and Hospitality shall be persons are entitled to the same opportunities anti-bribery online training arranged by provided to the internal auditor and external for training, career development and the Group.
At the conclusion of the auditor on request.
promotion as all other Company employees, anti-bribery@work training, they must pass in line with our Dignity at Work and Equal a test to demonstrate their understanding Opportunities policies.
of the Groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy.
The Policy and the online training are available in 15 different languages and are available to all employees.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering is a constituent of the FTSE4Good UK Index FTSE Group con rms that Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria and has satis ed the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global index company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent environmental, social and governance criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the bene ts of responsible business practice.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41 Governance Managing the business responsibly Setting out the Boards approach to governance and corporate culture.
42 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
