spirent COMMUniCAtiOns plC AnnUAl repOrt 2012 corporate governance active stewardship The Boards activities focus on strategy, governance and business performance.
how we engage with our stakeholders Annual Report Shareholders and l Website investment community A nalyst and investor meetings Annual General Meeting Presentations Regular facetoface meetings employees l Training and career development W ritten communications and updates Spirent intranet Employee opinion survey Facetoface meetings customers and suppliers l Conferences and industry events S eminars and webinars alex walker Website Chairman Social media Strategy and business performance Prior to the start of each financial year the Strategy and business development Board reviews and approves managements is a primary focus for the Board and plan for the coming year, making sure that is discussed at every meeting, with a stretching but realistic targets are put in dedicated strategy summit being held place.
The priorities for discussion are each year at which the Groups overall revenue growth, margins, earnings growth strategy is reviewed by the Board over a and cash generation, some of our key number of days.
We review and analyse performance indicators, as well as ensuring market conditions and technology trends that sufficient investment is made in and openly debate issues such as risk, product development opportunities so that strategic direction and allocation of this one year plan aligns with the long term product development investment.
It is strategy of Spirent.
As more fully explained critical that as a Board we have a deep in the Remuneration Report, these one year understanding of, and remain close to, financial goals then form the basis for our businesses.
Regular site visits are short term incentive targets for our therefore arranged with the Board also executive directors.
taking the opportunity to talk directly with At each Board meeting the executive Spirents customers.
For example, in May directors update the Board on market 2012, the Board went to Beijing in China, trends and conditions together with the one of our principal product development Companys performance against the one locations and where key Asian customers year plan and where necessary present are located.
Further customer and site revised forecasts which are again openly visits are planned for 2013. challenged and debated.
40 overview business review governance financial statements Corporate governance Employees Board evaluation Achieving good governance is key to Spirents performance in 2012 has been During 2012, the Board commissioned the long term success of the business.
achieved through the talent, dedication an externally facilitated evaluation It ensures that we remain a responsible and commitment of all our employees and process and we are delighted to report Company and underpins our culture and management teams throughout the world.
that the feedback from that assessment reputation as an organisation.
As a Board Our appreciation goes to all of them for was extremely positive with very few we are conscious of our obligations to their contribution to the continuing recommendations for improvement think deeply, thoroughly and on a success of the Company.
We will now take continuing basis regarding our duties.
We are well aware that Spirents greatest Spirent is fortunate to have nonexecutive resource is its employees: Spirents people Further information on Board activities Board members with extensive experience create and drive our innovation.
As part of can be found in the Directors statement on in areas critical to the long term future our continuing process for ensuring that corporate governance on pages 50 to 54. success of the Company, covering a deep we have the necessary people in place to understanding of our industry, technology, meet our strategic aims, in August 2012 corporate strategy, finance and investment.
the Board again reviewed succession planning for senior positions in the This experience enables the nonexecutives Company and our organisational structure.
to add entrepreneurial leadership, with open and rigorous debate that provides a valuable Board diversity external and balanced perspective to the Spirent has enjoyed a stable and proceedings.
We believe that our Board dedicated Board during 2012. however, members complement each other, the Board is mindful of the benefits of delivering a broad and appropriate having a diverse range of members with balance of skills.
a broad range of skills, backgrounds and experience and in pursuit of these, Consideration of the significant risks we were delighted to announce the that affect the Company, both internal appointment of Sue Swenson to our and external, their mitigation and the Board as a nonexecutive director in effectiveness of internal control is February 2012.
Sue has already made an essential component of corporate a valuable contribution to the Boards governance and these issues are deliberations through her wealth of deliberated by the Board at meetings experience in the telecommunications throughout the year.
The Board will continue to follow a policy of ensuring that we appoint the best people for the relevant roles and recognise the importance and benefits of greater diversity both at Board level and throughout the Group and will take this into account when considering any particular appointment.
