spirent COMMUniCAtiOns plC AnnUAl repOrt 2012 diRectoRs statement on coRpoRate goveRnance Compliance The independence of each director is reviewed on appointment The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate and at least annually.
The Board determined that the governance and fully supports the principles laid down in the UK nonexecutive directors are each independent in character and Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting judgement and within the definition of the Code.
No individual Council in June 2010 the Code and September 2012 the New or group of individuals dominates the Boards decision making Code.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders and the requirement of the Code that at least half of the Board for good governance and this statement, together with the excluding the Chairman should comprise independent Chairmans introduction on pages 40 and 41 and the Report on nonexecutive directors is satisfied.
directors remuneration on pages 55 to 67, describes how the principles of the Code were applied during the year under review The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to and reports on the Companys compliance with its provisions.
consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a director Disclosures relating to significant shareholdings, voting rights, has an interest that conflicts, or may potentially conflict, with the election and reelection of directors, powers of amendment of interests of the Company Situational Conflicts.
The Board has the Companys Articles of Association and the directors power a formal system in place for directors to declare Situational to issue or buy back shares are included in the Report of the Conflicts and for these to be considered for authorisation by directors on pages 44 to 48.
It is the Boards view that the those directors who have no connection with the matter being Company was fully compliant with the provisions of the Code considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a Situational throughout the period under review and with certain aspects Conflict, the nonconflicted directors are required to act in the of the New Code to the date of this Report.
way they consider most likely to promote the success of the Company and they may impose limits or conditions when giving The Board authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
At the date of this Report, the Board comprises a Chairman, four The Board considers the procedure to have continued to operate independent nonexecutive directors and two executive directors.
The Board operates within a framework of controls including a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it which Details of other professional commitments of the Chairman and includes such matters as the acquisition and divestment of nonexecutive directors are provided in their biographies on businesses, the issue of shares, significant contractual pages 42 and 43. commitments, review and effectiveness of risk management processes and major capital investment.
There is a clear division Ian Brindle served as Senior Independent Nonexecutive of responsibility at the head of the Company: the Chairman Director during the period under review.
The Senior Independent Alex Walker being responsible for running the Board and Nonexecutive Director acts as a sounding board for the Chairman the Chief Executive Officer Bill Burns being responsible and as an intermediary for the nonexecutive directors, if needed.
Mr Brindle is available to meet shareholders upon request if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of the The Chairman and the nonexecutive directors contribute Chairman or an executive director has failed to resolve, or for entrepreneurial leadership and external expertise and experience which such contact would be inappropriate.
in areas of importance to the Company such as strategic Composition of Board Length of tenure of directors investments, corporate finance, general finance and corporate at date of this Report governance.
They also contribute independent challenge and rigour to the Boards deliberations, and assist in the development 1 1 of the Companys strategy, scrutiny of the performance of 2 management in meeting agreed goals and targets and satisfying themselves of the integrity of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems.
The Board believes that all of the 2 directors devote sufficient time and attention as is necessary 3 in order to perform their duties.
1 Executive 2 29% 1 Less than 3 years 1 14% 2 Non-executive 5 71% 2 35 years 3 43% 3 More than 5 years 3 43% 50 overview business review governance financial statements During 2012, seven Board meetings were held.
The agenda is set are briefed on their legal and other duties and obligations as by the Chairman and papers are circulated to Board members in directors of a UK listed company.
Visits to different facilities and advance of the meeting.
Minutes of meetings are circulated to all meetings with senior management are organised, to assist the Board members and, subject to their agreement, approved at the new director in developing an understanding of how the Group following Board meeting.
operates and the key issues that it faces.
The attendance of individual directors at Board meetings held The process outlined above of regular business updates, site during the year was as follows: and customer visits ensures that the nonexecutive directors remain close to, and have a deep understanding of, the Groups Number of Number of business.
In addition, the updates from the Company Secretary meetings meetings held attended ensure that the Board is fully appraised of all corporate governance matters.
Directors also attend external courses Alex Walker Chairman 7 7 where appropriate.
Bill Burns 7 7 Eric Hutchinson 7 7 The Companys Articles of Association require that all directors Ian Brindle 7 7 seek election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting Duncan Lewis 7 7 following their appointment and that all directors retire and seek Tom Maxwell 7 7 reelection at least every three years.
However, commencing in Sue Swenson 7 7 2011 and in accordance with the Code, all directors now stand for reelection annually.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
They receive Performance evaluation regular updates on business performance and receive During 2012, the Board engaged Useful Thinking Ltd to presentations from the executive directors and other senior conduct an independent external evaluation of the Board and managers at Board meetings.
In addition, regular site and its Committees.
The feedback from that evaluation was extremely customer visits are arranged for nonexecutive directors positive and saw very few ways in which performance might be during which briefings are arranged and the directors have the further strengthened.
However, the Board will take these opportunity to discuss aspects of the business with employees recommendations forward and will also in particular continue at all levels.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company to consider the need in due course to increase diversity of its Secretary ensures good and timely information flows between the membership, especially in terms of gender.
Useful Thinking Ltd Board and its Committees and makes sure that Board procedures has no other connection with the Company.
The Company Secretary also updates and advises the Board on all regulatory and governance matters.
The Chairman communicates regularly with the nonexecutive directors and this contact provides an ongoing opportunity to There is a policy whereby the nonexecutive directors and the assess performance and to discuss the performance of the Board Committees may take independent professional advice at executive directors and any other matters.
The Chairman has the Companys expense in order to fulfil their duties.
All directors concluded that during the year under review the commitment and also have access to the advice and services of the Company application of the nonexecutive directors was of a high standard, Secretary, whose removal may only be effected with the approval including each having sufficient time to attend all Board and of the Board.
appropriate Committee meetings and to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Board appointments, induction and training The Board has in place a procedure for the appointment of new The Senior Independent Nonexecutive Director met with directors to the Board which complies with the Code and was the independent nonexecutive directors on 7 November 2012, applied to the appointment of Sue Swenson on 1 February 2012. in the absence of the Chairman, to assess the Chairmans effectiveness.
The independent nonexecutive directors were Following appointment to the Board and its Committees, all of the opinion that Mr Walker gave sufficient time to his role as directors receive an induction tailored to their individual Chairman of the Company and was effective in that role during requirements to ensure they have the necessary knowledge and the year under review.
understanding of the Company and its activities.
New directors 51 spirent COMMUniCAtiOns plC AnnUAl repOrt 2012 diRectoRs statement on coRpoRate goveRnance CONTINUED Board Committees Review and approve the external audit strategy and scope Certain of the matters specifically reserved for the Boards for 2012: decision have been delegated to three Committees with clearly Review the policy on the engagement of Ernst & Young to defined terms of reference which, together with the composition supply nonaudit services: of each Committee, are reviewed annually.
The terms of reference Review and recommend to the Board the reappointment for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees can be of Ernst & Young as external auditor and approve their fees: found on the Companys website at www.
Monitor and review internal control and risk management systems: Audit Committee Review and approve the internal audit programme for 2012: During 2012, Ian Brindle Chairman, Duncan Lewis, Tom Maxwell Review the Companys Whistleblowing Policy: and Sue Swenson served on the Audit Committee, Sue Swenson Review regular reports on taxation, treasury operations and having joined the Committee on her appointment to the Board on health and safety.
All of the Committee members are independent nonexecutive directors, making the composition of the Committee The Chairman of the Committee reports any significant findings compliant with the Code.
The Code also requires that the Audit or identified weaknesses to the Board.
Committee includes at least one member who has recent, significant and relevant financial experience.
The Board considers Policy on nonaudit services that both Ian Brindle and Tom Maxwell provide such experience.
The Committee has adopted a policy in relation to the provision of nonaudit services by the external auditor taking into account The attendance of individual directors at Audit Committee relevant ethical guidance and to ensure that the provision of such meetings held during 2012 was as follows: services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
Under this policy, a number of nonaudit services are Number of Number of precluded including services relating to the accounting records meetings meetings held attended and financial statements, internal audit, IT consulting, legal and investment services and other services deemed by regulators to Ian Brindle Committee Chairman 3 3 be precluded.
The policy is reviewed and financial limits for the Duncan Lewis 3 3 provision of nonaudit services are set on an annual basis.
With Tom Maxwell 3 3 regard to the nonaudit services provided during the year, the Sue Swenson 3 3 Committee determined that in the interests of cost and efficiency, it was in the best interests of the Company to purchase these The Companys external auditor, the Chief Executive Officer, services from Ernst & Young.
In addition, the Committee the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Vice President Finance, the considers that notwithstanding the nonaudit services provided Head of Financial Reporting and the Company Secretary, who is during the year totalling $0.4 million 2011 $0.1 million, Secretary to the Committee, were in attendance at each meeting Ernst & Youngs objectivity as external auditor was not impaired.
The Chairman also attends each meeting by invitation from the Committee Chairman.
In addition, the Appointment of external auditor Committee meets regularly with the Companys external auditor Prior to recommending their reappointment as external without management being present.
The minutes of Committee auditor, the Committee considered Ernst & Youngs performance, meetings are available to all directors.
resources, quality control procedures, policy on rotating its audit partners audit partners rotate every five years, independence Role of the Committee and objectivity in the light of relevant UK professional and The principal activities of the Committee during the year were: regulatory requirements.
It was noted that as a result of Ernst & Youngs policy on rotating audit partners there had been a new Review the interim and full year financial statements, Audit Partner in 2011.
The Committee also considered the risk of key accounting policies and significant financial reporting Ernst & Young withdrawing from the audit market and noted that judgements if any contained therein and to recommend there are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys such financial statements to the Board for approval: current choice of external auditor.
The Committee is mindful of Review the external auditors report on the interim review and the New Codes provisions regarding the tendering of the year end audit and managements responses to the issues raised: external audit contract.
52 overview business review governance financial statements Further details of the Groups Ethics Policy and health and safety The Groups system of risk management comprises all business performance are contained in the Corporate social responsibility units maintaining up to date risk registers as an integral part of statement on pages 32 to 38. their normal operating and control procedures.
Risk registers for both the Group and operating units are reviewed by the Audit Internal control and risk management Committee and the Board at least three times a year and The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system significant risks are discussed in detail together with progress of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its on mitigating activities and any further actions to be taken.
The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of this system and this review did not The Board and Audit Committee consider that having the reveal any significant issues or weaknesses.
The Board confirms following key elements in place are critical to underpinning that this system of internal control and risk management was the overall internal control environment: in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of these financial statements.
The primary aim is to Operating Structure An organisational structure with clear operate a system which is appropriate to the business and which and Controls operating procedures, defined lines can, over time, increase shareholder value whilst safeguarding of responsibility and delegated levels the Groups assets.
The system is designed to identify, evaluate of authority and manage the significant risks faced by the Group rather than Financial Control A comprehensive strategic planning, financial to eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and Structure control and budgeting system which is can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against properly documented and regularly reviewed material misstatement or loss.
The Group consists of a limited Ethics Policy A policy that sets standards of number of entities and the Board and Audit Committee continue professionalism and integrity for all to consider that currently there is no need for a dedicated internal employees and operations control and risk management department.
AntiBribery Policy A policy to ensure that all of Spirents Daytoday responsibility for effective internal control and risk systems, controls and training comply with management and monitoring rests with senior management at the antibribery and corruption legislation in business unit level.
The Group Vice President, Finance attends all the countries where we operate and that all Audit Committee meetings to report on internal control and a culture of prevention and detection of all risk management and to apprise the Committee of any control forms of bribery and corruption is in place weaknesses, control failings and risks, their impact and the Whistleblowing A whistleblowing procedure whereby actions taken to deal with the issues.
The Group Vice President, Policy employees may report, in confidence, Finance, is independent of any business unit and is therefore able suspected wrongdoings to provide an objective view and continual assessment of the Acquisitions and A disciplined due diligence process and effectiveness of internal control and risk management Divestments postacquisition integration programme throughout the Group.
The Group Vice President, Finance is responsible for ensuring Remuneration Committee that the finance department employs a level of management During 2012, Tom Maxwell Chairman, Ian Brindle, Duncan Lewis and specialists appropriate for maintaining financial records and Sue Swenson served on the Remuneration Committee, Sue and processes that provide financial information that is relevant, Swenson having joined the Committee on her appointment to the reliable, complies with the applicable laws and regulations, and Board on 1 February 2012.
All members of the Committee are is distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
independent nonexecutive directors, making it compliant with A review of the consolidation and financial statements is the Code in terms of independent nonexecutive directors.
undertaken by senior management to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
Further details about the Remuneration Committee are included All financial information published by the Group is subject to in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 55 to 67. the approval of the Audit Committee prior to its being approved by the Board.
53 spirent COMMUniCAtiOns plC AnnUAl repOrt 2012 diRectoRs statement on coRpoRate goveRnance CONTINUED Nomination Committee Relations with shareholders During 2012, Alex Walker Chairman, Ian Brindle, Duncan Lewis, The Board supports the use of the Annual General Meeting as Tom Maxwell and Sue Swenson served on the Nomination a means of communicating with both private and institutional Committee, Sue Swenson having joined the Committee on her investors and encourages their participation.
The Company appointment to the Board on 1 February 2012.
The Company is ready, where practicable, to enter into a dialogue with Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
shareholders through analyst briefings and investor presentations, all of which are made available on the Companys The attendance of individual directors at Nomination Committee website at www.
Senior executives meet regularly meetings held during 2012 was as follows: with institutional and major shareholders to facilitate stakeholders understanding of the Company and its objectives Number of Number of and to receive feedback which is then reported to the Board.
meetings meetings held attended All directors attend the Annual General Meeting in order to meet with shareholders and to answer questions.
They are Alex Walker Committee Chairman 1 1 also available for shareholders to meet upon request.
Ian Brindle 1 1 Duncan Lewis 1 1 All of the Companys communications with shareholders are Tom Maxwell 1 1 conducted in line with our environmental approach.
We hold the Sue Swenson 1 1 majority of our events via webcast and conference calls and we encourage all of our investors to receive communications The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the electronically where possible.
composition and structure of the Board and for identifying and recommending candidates for executive and nonexecutive positions.
Recommendations are based on the required role and capabilities which have been specified for the appointment and having regard to the Boards balance, diversity and structure and considering issues of succession.
Executive search consultants are used by the Nomination Committee to assist this process as appropriate and were used in the process completed during the year which led to the appointment of Sue Swenson.
Spencer Stuart, the executive search consultants used by the Committee, have no connection with the Company.
As all of the Committee members are independent nonexecutive directors, the composition of the Committee is compliant with the terms of the Code.
