44 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE the board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Dr Keith Hellawell QPM aged 70 Dave Forsey aged 46 Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Chairman of Nomination Committee Appointed 1984 Appointed 24 November 2009 Current Roles Dave is the Chief Executive of the Group.
Past Roles Prior to joining Sports Direct International plc, Dr Hellawell spent Key Strengths Skills over 40 years in public sector management being a former Chief Dave has been with the business for over 27 years, Constable of two British police forces.
Between 1998 and 2002, during which time he has acquired significant knowledge and working directly for the Prime Minister, he wrote and coordinated experience.
He has overall responsibility for the Groups the United Kingdom national and international anti drugs policy.
Current Roles He has been involved in the private sector since 1998 when he joined Evans of Leeds, a fully listed property company.
Since then he has served on the Boards of both Dalkia plc and Sterience bob Mellors Limited, subsidiaries of the French company Veolina Env.
Dr Hellawell is currently a Non-Executive Director of Mortice plc, Group Finance Director aged 62 a Singapore based facilities management company and a Director of Hudderseld Giants Super-League team.
He was Non-Executive Appointed Chairman of Goldshield Group plc, a marketing led pharmaceutical 2004 and consumer health company, from May 2006 to its sale in December 2009.
He has held a number of other Non-Executive Past Roles Board positions in private companies including vehicle A graduate in Economics, he qualied with manufacturing and IT.
He runs his own management and training  in London before joining Eacott Worrall, consultancy company.
where Sports Direct became a client in 1982.
He was managing partner and Head of Corporate Finance at Eacott Worrall before Key Strengths Skills joining the Group.
Dr Hellawell has worked in both the public and private sector for over 50 years.
Throughout this time he has built up a wealth of Current Roles experience to ensure the successful and effective operation of Bob is the Groups Finance Director.
Key Strengths Skills Bob has extensive financial knowledge, including in corporate finance and transactions, and brings valuable experience to Sports Direct.
mike Ashley aged 47 Executive Deputy Chairman Appointed Founder Past Roles Mike Ashley established the business of the Group on leaving school in 1982 and was the sole owner of the business until the Companys listing in March 2007.
Current Roles Mike is the Executive Deputy Chairman.
Key Strengths Skills Mike was the founder of the Group and has the necessary skills for formulating the vision and strategy of the Company.
With over 30 years in the sports retail business with Sports Direct, he is invaluable to the Company.
