51 Presentations are also given on business or strategic issues where The Chief Executive is responsible for the running of the Groups appropriate, and the Board will consider at least annually the business for the delivery of the strategy, leading the management strategy for the Group.
Minutes of the meetings of Committees team and is responsible for implementing specic decisions made of the Board are circulated to all members of the Board, unless a by the Board to help meet shareholder expectations.
The Chief conict of interest arises, to enable all Directors to have oversight Executive reports to each Board meeting on all material matters of those matters delegated to Committees, and copies of analysts affecting the Groups performance.
No one individual has unfettered reports and brokers notes are provided to Directors.
Key Activities Given the structure of the Board, the fact that the Chairman and Chief Executive roles are fullled by two separate individuals and s Ensuring the long-term success of the Group.
the terms of the Relationship Agreement with Mike Ashley, the Board believes that no individual or small Group of individuals can s Considering the obligations to shareholders and other dominate the Boards decision making.
The Non-Executive Directors s Considering the effect the Groups activities have on the The Board consists of four Non-Executive Directors and the environment and community in which it operates.
The Non-Executive Directors role is to understand the Group as a whole and constructively challenge strategy and s Maintaining a high business reputation.
management performance, set Executive remuneration levels and ensure an appropriate succession planning strategy is in place.
s Maintaining relationships with suppliers, customers and the They must also ensure they are satisfied with the accuracy of wider community.
financial information and that sound risk management processes are in place.
There is a formal schedule of matters that require Board approval: they are matters that could have significant strategic, financial or The Non-Executive Directors have excellent experience from a reputational effects on the Group as a whole.
The Non-Executive Directors assist the Board with issues such as governance, internal control, Matters reserved for the Board remuneration and risk management.
Simon Bentley is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
He supports the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors and is s Monitors and reviews strategy and business performance.
available to shareholders if they have concerns.
s Approves acquisitions, expansions into other regions The Non-Executive Directors External Appointments countries.
Non-Executive Directors are required to disclose prior appointments and other significant commitments to the Board and are required s Appointments and removal of Board members.
to inform the Board of any changes to or additional commitments.
Details of the Non-Executives Directors external appointments can s Succession planning.
be found on pages 44 and 45. s Appointment and removal of auditors.
Before accepting new appointments, Non-Executive Directors s Overall responsibility for internal control and risk management are required to obtain approval from the Chairman and the as described on pages 30 to 33.
Chairman requires whole Board approval.
It is essential that any appointments do not cause a conict of interest or jeopardise The Chairman and Executive Directors a Directors commitment and time spent with the Group in their The division of responsibilities between the Non-Executive existing appointment.
Chairman, the Executive Deputy Chairman and the Chief Executive is in writing and has been agreed by the Board, however, they The Non-Executive Directors Independence work closely together to ensure effective decision-making and the The Group considers the Non-Executive Directors to be successful delivery of the Groups strategy.
independent in accordance with the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and that all Directors are able to play a full part in Executive and Non-Executive Directors - Conicts of Interest the activities of the Company.
He ensures effective communication The Board has set procedures to deal with Directors conicts of with shareholders and that the Board understands the views of interest that arise.
During the Year the Board reviewed and, where major investors.
The Chairman is available to provide advice and appropriate, approved certain situational conicts of interest that support to members of the Executive team.
were reported to it by Directors, and a register of those situational conicts is maintained and reviewed.
The Board noted any The Executive Deputy Chairman is an ambassador for the transactional conicts of interest concerning Directors that arose Company.
He takes the lead in the strategic development of the and where declared.
No Director took part in the discussion or Company, formulating the vision and strategy, which he does in determination of any matter in respect of which he had disclosed a conjunction with the Chief Executive.
The Company has entered into a Relationship Agreement with Mike Ashley, the Executive Deputy Chairman, whose wholly owned company, MASH Holdings Limited currently holds approximately 71.18% of the issued share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares.
This agreement is described in the Directors Report on page 47.
