54 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Directors who served on the Committee during the Year were: Members of the Nomination Committee during the Year were: Dave Singleton Chairman Keith Hellawell Chairman Simon Bentley Simon Bentley Keith Hellawell Dave Singleton Charles McCreevy Charles McCreevy Claire Jenkins 13 December 2011 The Nomination Committee will meet at least once a year and will also meet when appropriate.
The Committee met on one occasion The Remuneration Committee assists the Board to ensure during the Year.
All of the Nomination Committee members are appropriate levels of pay and benets are in place for Executive Non-Executive Directors and considered independent.
A key priority is to ensure that remuneration policy is aligned with strategy to achieve the long-term Responsibilities: success of the Group.
The Committee ensures that it complies with the requirements of regulatory and governance bodies including the s Review the Boards structure.
UK Code whilst meeting shareholder and employee expectations.
All members of the Committee are Non-Executive Directors and are s Review the composition and make up of the Board, including evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of considered independent.
Responsibilities: s Give consideration to succession planning for Directors.
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include: s Prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for any Board appointment.
s Determining the Companys policy on Executive remuneration, including the design of bonus schemes, and targets and s Make recommendations to the Board concerning the standing payments made thereunder.
s Determine the levels of remuneration for the Chairman and s Identify potential candidates to be appointed as Directors, and each of the Executive Directors.
make recommendations to the Board as the need may arise.
s Monitor the remuneration of Senior Management and make The Board has established a Nomination Committee to ensure a recommendations in respect thereof.
formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
s Agree any compensation for loss of ofce of any Executive Director.
The Nomination Committee also determines succession plans for the Chairman and the Chief Executive who are not present at The Remuneration Committee meets at least three times a year and meetings when the matter is discussed.
Succession plans are met on three occasions during the Year.
reviewed by the Nomination Committee at least once a year.
A report on the remuneration of Directors appears on pages 56 Dave Forsey, the Chief Executive, will usually attend meetings to 59. of the Nomination Committee, unless the Nomination Committee is dealing with matters relating to him or with the appointment of What has the Committee done during the year?
s Reviewed the proposed bonus scheme for Mike Ashley.
The Board currently believes that the Board and its Committees as s Reviewed Executive remuneration to include salaries currently constituted are working well.
s Reviewed and approved the Directors Remuneration Report contained on pages 56 to 59.
Full details of Directors remuneration can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 58.
