52 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report the board Continued Executive and Non-Executive Directors - Re-election Executive and Non-Executive - Training and development The Group complies with The 2010 UK Corporate Governance All newly appointed Directors are provided with a tailored induction Code and all Directors offer themselves for re-election every year.
programme based on their existing skills and experience.
The Board have determined that all Directors must put themselves The Board is also informed of any material changes to laws and forward for election or re-election at the 2012 AGM to comply regulations affecting the Groups business.
All Directors have with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Retiring Directors access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and may seek reappointment if willing and eligible to do so and if each Director and each Board Committee may take independent so recommended by the Nomination Committee.
All Directors professional advice at the Companys expense, subject to prior appointed by the Board are appointed after consideration of the notication to the other Non-Executive Directors and the Company recommendations of the Nomination Committee, and those so Secretary.
The Company maintains appropriate Directors and appointed must stand for reappointment at the following Annual ofcers insurance.
Executive and Non-Executive Directors Executive and Non-Executive Directors - Re-election - Performance Evaluation Details of Executive Directors service contracts and of the There is a formal process in place for the performance evaluation Chairmans and the Non-Executive Directors appointment of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
Each Director letters are given on page 57.
Copies of service contracts and of is given the opportunity to express their views on the organisation appointment letters are available for inspection at the Companys and operation of the Board and its Committees, their effectiveness registered ofce during normal business hours and at the Annual and contribution to the business, and on any other matter they General Meeting.
Length of service An internal Board evaluation was facilitated by the Chairman, The length of service of each of the Non-Executive Directors who provided the other members of the Board with a condential including the Chairman are below: questionnaire.
The findings were presented to the Board.
The evaluation did not highlight any areas of concern and the Date of appointment Directors are satisfied the Board and its Committees are operating effectively.
Claire Jenkins 25 05 2011 Charles McCreevy 31 03 2011 The Board and the Nomination Committee will consider the output from the evaluation programme in their evaluation of the Dave Singleton 25 10 2007 skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, and in formulating Simon Bentley 02 03 2007 development plans.
Keith Hellawell 24 11 2009 In 2014 the Board will facilitate an external evaluation by independent consultants and going forward this will be completed every three years.
Board Committees To assist the Board with their duties, there are three principal Board Attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings during Committees: the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
the Year and the total number of meetings that they could have The Committees are governed by terms of reference which provide attended are set out in the table below.
All Directors attended all detail of matters delegated to each Committee and the authority meetings of the Board and of Committees of the Board of which they have to make decisions.
Full terms of reference are available they were members unless prevented from doing so by prior on request and on the Companys website.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Meetings Committee Meetings Committee Meetings Committee Meetings Keith Hellawell 6 6 3 3 3 3 1 1 Mike Ashley 5 6 - - - Simon Bentley 6 6 3 3 3 3 1 1 Dave Forsey 6 6 - - - Claire Jenkins 6 6 3 3 2 2 - Charles McCreevy 6 6 3 3 3 3 1 1 Bob Mellors 6 6 - - - Dave Singleton 6 6 3 3 3 3 1 1
