53 Audit Committee Attendance at meetings of Committees is set out on the previous What has the Committee done during the year?
s Monitored the effectiveness of internal controls, and also Directors who served on the Committee during the Year were: considered the current economic climate and its likely impact on the Group.
Simon Bentley Chairman s Considered the reappointment of the auditors.
Dave Singleton s Reviewed accounting policies and the financial statements.
Charles McCreevy s Approved policy for non-audit work.
Claire Jenkins 25 May 2011 On an annual basis, the Audit Committee considers the reappointment of the auditors and their remuneration and makes Simon Bentley, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, is a recommendations to the Board.
The auditors are appointed each Chartered Accountant, and has relevant financial experience and year at the Annual General Meeting.
The Committee considers the is supported by the rest of the Committee.
All of the members of level of service provided by the auditors and their independence.
the Committee are considered independent.
The external auditors are required to rotate audit partners for the In addition to the Committee members, the external auditors Group audit every five years and the current lead partner has been attend meetings of the Committee, other than when their in place for three years.
The Group Finance Director also The Committee has approved a policy on the engagement of attends when required.
The Committee meets the auditors in the absence of Executive management at least twice a year and the the external auditors for non-audit work, in order to ensure that Chairman of the Audit Committee meets with the auditors as and the objectivity of the auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements is not or may not be seen to be impaired, and has when it is needed.
established a process to monitor compliance.
The Committee met on three occasions during the Year.
The Audit Committee will meet not less than three times a year: this could be The policy identied three categories of potential work.
increased depending on the Groups requirements.
Auditor Authority Type of Work The Committees programme is pre-planned to ensure that each aspect of its responsibilities is discharged as part of an annual cycle Work the auditor may not The work includes the during the Companys financial year.
provide as completing the preparation of accounting task could create a threat to entries or financial statements, Main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: independence.
IT systems design and implementation, management s Assisting the Board with the discharge of its responsibilities in of projects and tax planning relation to internal and external audits and controls.
where the outcome would s Agreeing the scope of the annual audit and the annual audit have a material impact on the plan and monitoring the same.
financial statements or where the outcome is dependent s Reviewing and monitoring the independence of the external upon accounting treatment.
auditors and relationships with them and in particular agreeing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit work that may Work the auditor may Corporate Finance services, be undertaken.
undertake with the consent acquisition due diligence, of the Chairman of the Audit management consultancy s Monitoring, making judgements and recommendations on the Committee.
and secondment of staff other financial reporting process and the integrity and clarity of the than for the preparation of Groups financial statements.
accounting entries or financial s Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the internal statements.
control and risk management policies and systems in place.
Work the auditor may There are services that the s Monitoring the audit of the annual and consolidated accounts.
undertake auditors may provide as the work is clearly audit related and there is no potential threat to independence, including regulatory reporting and acting as reporting accountants.
The Company is satisfied that its policy falls within the requirements of the Auditing Practices Board.
