50 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report The Group is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance.
The following section will detail how the UK Corporate Governance code has been applied during the year.
Chairmans introduction Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code I am pleased to introduce the Corporate Governance Statement which contains details of the activities of the Board and its The Board has reviewed the Companys corporate governance committees and how the Group complied with the UK Corporate processes and policies, and has concluded that during the 53 Governance Code 2010 for the year ended 29 April 2012. weeks ended 29 April 2012 the Year the Company complied with the provisions of the Code except as set out below.
In February 2011 Lord Davies made recommendations that women should be better represented on the Board of UK listed Provision B.
1.1 states The Board should state its reasons if it companies.
He made clear that Companies should be transparent determines that a director is independent notwithstanding the about achieving his intentions of a 25% female representation on existence of relationships or circumstances which may appear the Board.
relevant to its determination, including if the director: has received or receives additional remuneration from the company apart from Diversity is considered key to the success of The Group.
Across a directors fee, participates in the companys share option or a its workforce the Company employs thousands of people with a performance-related pay scheme, or is a member of the companys wealth of different backgrounds and skills.
Given this, the Company pension scheme.
Keith Hellawell, the Groups Chairman has the is mindful of the Lord Davies report and wholeheartedly agrees with option to buy 5,000 worth of shares at the nominal value of 0.10 its conclusion that women should be equally represented not just in on an annual basis.
Keith Hellawell exercised his option during the Board room, but in other areas of the business.
He has informed the Board that he will be The Nominations Committee considers candidates on merit and waiving this right in the current financial year.
against objective criteria, with due regard for the benets of The Board and Remuneration Committee are satisfied that the diversity on the Board, including gender.
Currently, 14% of the additional remuneration does not impair his independence.
Groups Board excluding the Chairman is made up of women and we aim to increase this as and when suitable vacancies arise, Provision B.
6.2 states that evaluation of the Board of FTSE 350 however, of primary importance is a strong Board to help promote companies should be externally facilitated at least every three the success of the company, meaning appointments will be made years.
A statement should be made available of whether an external on the grounds of merit rather than being inuenced so as to meet facilitator has any other connection with the company.
in the 2011 Annual Report, the Board will facilitate external evaluation every three years, the first external evaluation will take place in 2014. the board The Board consists of a Non-Executive Chairman Keith Hellawell, The Board plans to meet on a formal basis six times during the year the Deputy Chairman Mike Ashley, two Executive Directors, and with up to four additional strategy meetings at convenient times four Non-Executive Directors.
The names, skills and experience of throughout the year when broader issues concerning the strategic each member of the Board are set out above on pages 44 and 45. future of the Company will be discussed.
The Board will meet on other occasions as and when the business demands.
During the The size and composition of the Board are regularly reviewed by Year the Board met on six occasions.
the Board to ensure that there is the appropriate balance of skills and experience.
A detailed agenda is established for each meeting, and appropriate documentation is provided to Directors in advance of the meeting.
Role of the Board Regular Board meetings provide an agenda that will include reports The role of the Board is to ensure the overall long-term success of from the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, reports on the Group.
This is achieved through the review, development and the performance of the business and current trading, reports on implementation of the Groups strategy.
The Board also maintains meetings with investors, reports from Committees of the Board and responsibility for corporate responsibility, accountability and to specic proposals where the approval of the Board is sought.
The ensure effective leadership is delegated to management for the Board will monitor and question monthly performance and review day-to-day running of the Group, and ensures an appropriate anticipated results.
strategy is in place for succession planning.
The Board has a programme in place to enable it to discharge its responsibility of providing effective and entrepreneurial leadership to the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls.
