SSE Annual Report 2012 72 Audit Committee assessment of the Companys position Members and meetings Attended and prospects: Membership scheduled monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys accounting systems, Ren Mdori 3 3 internal control policies and procedures Thomas Thune Andersen 3 3 Jeremy Beeton 2 2 and risk management systems: Richard Gillingwater 3 3 monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: monitoring and reviewing the objectivity I was pleased to welcome Jeremy Beeton and independence of the external Auditors Ren Mdori Audit Committee Chairman as a member of the Audit Committee when taking into consideration the scope of their he joined the Board on 1 July 2011.
After nine work and fees paid for both audit and years on the Board, including eight years as non-audit services: Chairman of the Audit Committee, I will step monitoring and reviewing the significant down as non-Executive Director on 25 June risks identied by each business unit as well as the mitigating action against those risks: 2012.
Richard Gillingwater will become Chairman of the Audit Committee on that monitoring and reviewing the arrangements date.
Richard Gillingwater and I are identied by which employees can in confidence raise as having recent and relevant financial concerns about any possible improprieties in financial and other matters: and experience.
reviewing the significant financial reporting The Board confirms that each member issues and judgements.
of the Committee is independent and that Activities in 2011 12 the membership meets the requirements of the Code.
The Audit Committee had three meetings in the year.
The key activities of the Audit The Finance Director, Head of Group Internal Committee during the year are set out below: Audit and the external Auditors attend and report at Audit Committee meetings.
The Financial statements Company Chairman and the Generation and reviewed the financial statements in the Supply Director also regularly attend Audit 2011 Annual Report and accounts and the Committee meetings.
As part of this review the including the Group Treasurer, Group Financial Committee received from the external Controller and Managing Director, Energy Auditors a report on their audit of the Portfolio Management, may also be invited Annual Report and accounts and their to present reports.
During the year, the review of the interim results: Committee met privately with the external reviewed the impairment of assets and Auditors, and separately with the Head of related accounting matters: Group Internal Audit.
reviewed the annual and interim results announcements: and The Assistant Company Secretary is Secretary reviewed the reportable segments to to the Audit Committee.
be included in the financial statements of the 2012 Annual Report and accounts.
The Committee has unrestricted access to Company documents and information as well Control environment and risk management as to management and the external Auditors.
received six-monthly reports by Group Internal Audit setting out the audit As Audit Committee Chairman, I report the outcome of Committee meetings to the Board.
programme, its progress against the programme, the results of key audits and Role other significant findings, the adequacy of managements response and the The Audit Committee assists the Board in the effective discharge of its responsibilities timeliness of resolution of actions: for financial reporting and internal control, reviewed and agreed the Group together with the procedures for the Internal Audit Plan for the year ending identication, assessment and reporting 31 March 2013: of risks.
The Audit Committees remit, which received six-monthly reports from Energy is set out in its terms of reference, includes Trading and Treasury setting out strategy, responsibility for: market developments, any significant risks and the controls in place to mitigate reviewing the Companys financial reports these risks: and formal announcements to ensure they received six-monthly reviews from Group represent an accurate, clear and balanced Internal Audit on the Internal Control Risk Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 73 enlarged Group since 1999.
Under its terms Assessment setting out the Group Risk Map and Residual Risk Map: of reference, the Audit Committee has reviewed aged debts and bad debts: responsibility for recommending to the reviewed Post-Investment Appraisal Board the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external Auditors.
The Audit Reports: and received reports under the Group Committee considers that the relationship whistleblowing policy and reviewed with the Auditors is working well and remains the implementation of this policy.
Accordingly, it has not considered it necessary to require External audit process the rm to tender for the audit work.
There reviewed the effectiveness of the overall are no contractual obligations restricting the audit process for 2010 11, meeting with Companys choice of external auditor.
The the external Auditors and management external Auditors are required to rotate the separately to identify any areas of concern in audit partners responsible for the Group audit the preparation of the financial statements: every five years and the current lead partner reviewed independence and objectivity and has been in place for three years.
agreed the terms of appointment, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope Upon the recommendation of the Audit of the audit as set out in the engagement Committee and approval of the Board, letter for the forthcoming year: resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc reviewed and agreed the audit fees, fees as Auditors, and to authorise the Directors for non-recurring work and the regulatory to x their remuneration, will be proposed reporting fee: at the forthcoming AGM.
reviewed internal control and key accounting and audit issues: and As part of the Board evaluation process, reviewed recommendations made by the operation of the Audit Committee was the external Auditors and the adequacy evaluated, and it was confirmed that the Committee was operating effectively.
Ren Mdori Independence of Auditors Chairman reviewed changes in the Audit team: and reviewed the extent of non-audit services provided by the Auditors in accordance with the established policy where: a competitive tender process is required where non-audit fees exceed a threshold of 30,000 for general advice and 75,000 for tax-related advice: the Committee must be satisfied that the work was best handled by the external Auditors because of their knowledge of the Group: and the Committee must be satisfied that the objectivity and independence of the external Auditors was not affected by the work.
The Audit Committee continued to monitor the level of non-audit work undertaken by the Auditors.
The non-audit work awarded during the year included: taxation advice including general consultancy, acquisitions and disposals: and accounting due diligence.
Full disclosure of the audit and non-audit fees paid during the year is made in note 4 to the Financial Statements.
Following a competitive tender, KPMG Audit Plc has been the external auditor of the
