SSE Annual Report 2012 58 The SSE team This means that SSEs priorities in graduates and apprenticeships.
The focus On 31 March 2012, SSE employed 19,489 people, a reduction of 760 on the previous maintaining and developing the right of each programme is to ensure that those year following the decision in July 2011 to stop team of employees are: participating gain skills that can be used for doorstep selling of energy.
Fundamental to the their future benefit and for the benefit of SSE.
This sustainable creation of jobs is key to SSE.
Companys success is the professionalism and making SSE a great place to work, therefore enthusiasm of employees, guided by SSEs retaining motivated and committed people Currently 450 individuals are progressing Teamwork value, which states: We support and attracting a strong number of quality through these programmes and SSE has been and value our colleagues and enjoy working applicants for new roles: nationally recognised for the quality of these programmes, winning a number of awards together in an open and honest way.
SSE is making a long-term commitment to committed to ensuring that it is a great place employees, giving them the time to build during 2011 12. to work and its policies on human resources their professional skills and the opportunity are developed and delivered in support of this.
to advance their careers: In recognition that it operates in a maintaining a preference for recruiting and competitive employment market, SSE has The Board of Directors and promoting from within the organisation introduced a wide range of employee benefit the Management Board where possible, while recognising that offerings including a competitive pension, a some specialist skills may only be available range of salary sacrifice offerings and a wide The Board is accountable to SSEs shareholders through external recruitment: range of employee benets including its for the good conduct of the Companys affairs ensuring effective succession planning, Extras programme.
and is collectively responsible for creating and based on a comprehensive annual review process which extends beyond the Board Diversity sustaining shareholder value through the overall management of the Company, while and the Management Board to other levels In February 2011, the Davies Review of Women ensuring that a sound system of internal in the organisation and which features on Boards quoted evidence that companies control and risk management is in place.
a range of options for the development with a strong female representation at board of key individuals: and and top management level perform better How the Board Works is set out on pages 61 to 64.
The Management Board is the group recognising that the most effective than those without and that gender-diverse of Executive Directors and Managing Directors employees over the long term are those boards have a positive impact on performance.
which is responsible for implementing strategy who are able to maintain a balance It said that boards make better decisions where a range of voices, drawing on different and policy as agreed by the Main Board and between their working and family lives.
for the operational management of all of SSEs life experiences, can be heard and that this businesses.
The members of the Board and Recruitment mix of voices must include women.
the Management Board are listed on page 57.
During 2011 12, SSE recruited externally a total Of the 54 senior managers who report directly of 2,225 people to jobs in England, Scotland, Other employees Wales, Northern Ireland and the Republic of to members of the Management Board, Ireland.
Of the people recruited during the 12 are women: and of the 49 members of The Executive Directors, Managing Directors year, 64% were men and 36% were women.
the five Committees of the Management Board, 12 are women.
Although the number and other senior executives and managers are While it was difficult to nd candidates for among the 19,489 people directly employed a very small number of the jobs, because of of women in senior and other management by SSE on 31 March 2012.
Most of these the technical requirements or location issues, roles in SSE is increasing, it is recognised that the vast majority were lled by appropriatelymore work needs to be done to secure greater people work in the United Kingdom: just over 600 are employed in the Republic of Ireland: qualied people in a timely way and SSE gender diversity.
and a total of 18 work in mainland Europe.
remains pleased with the number of high Of all employees, 71% are men and 29% are quality applications that it receives.
In support of this a number of steps are being taken, and a survey of over 200 senior women.
The average age of SSEs employees is 38 years.
In 2011 12, there was a 8.2% The level of unemployment amongst 18 to managers in SSE was carried out to establish turnover of employees, compared with 9.5% 24 year olds has been a particular cause for attitudes to, perceptions of and steps needed in the previous year.
concern as a result of the economic slowdown to support greater gender diversity in SSE.
The in the UK and Ireland in recent years.
Overall principal nding of the survey was that SSE Building the SSE team 12% of SSE employees are aged under 25 could do more to advance a culture of exible SSEs strategy is to deliver sustained around 2,300 in total.
and family-friendly working for both women real growth in the dividend through the and men.
This and other actions will be addressed by SSEs newly-established Diversity efficient operation of, and investment in, a SSE also supports the Barnardos Works balanced range of energy-related businesses.
programme, which aims to give long term Working Group in the course of 2012 13.
SSE To deliver this strategy in a complex industry unemployed young people the opportunity will continue to make appointments to all that is both long term and fast-changing to gain comprehensive waged work roles within the organisation on merit, but believes it must take steps to enhance the requires the maintenance and development opportunities, training and industry-related of a strong team of employees who have qualications.
Since it began in 2008, a total diversity of the lists of candidates from the technical knowledge required of of 105 young people have taken part in the which appointments are made.
participants in the energy sector and the programme with SSE.
Participation professional and generic skills required to make SSE a successful company in the In addition, SSE offers a range of structured SSE believes that there is a commonality of second and third decades of the 21st century development programmes suited to the needs interest between employees and customers and beyond.
of school leavers, trainees, trainee engineers, and shareholders.
To reinforce that it: Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 59 ongoing improvement target for these survey in part on performance against each of the SSE encourages all employees to become and remain customers by providing them with results.
The next engagement survey is being SET of core values Safety, Service, Efficiency, a 10% discount on its prices for electricity conducted in June 2012, when all employees Sustainability, Excellence and Teamwork.
It is and gas supply, plus discounts on energy across SSE will be invited to participate.
also designed to focus on agreed objectives for the following year and on personal efficiency installations, central heating and wiring maintenance and telephone Rights development and professional aspirations.
and broadband services: SSE has in place a comprehensive range provides opportunities for employees to of policies to safeguard the interests of Performance management therefore focuses on the skills and competencies of employees, become and remain shareholders in SSE employees and potential employees.
Like all through a Share Incentive Plan and a responsible organisations it has in place an which are critical to SSE and to the energy Sharesave Scheme.
Employee participation actively-managed equal opportunities policy, sector in the UK, the Republic of Ireland and in these schemes is now 43% and 35% in keeping with the spirit as well as the letter of elsewhere.
SSE needs to ensure the safe and efficient operation of its businesses and the respectively: and the law in the UK and elsewhere, designed to provides opportunities for employees ensure fair and equal treatment of employees reliable provision of services to customers.
to be involved in its Community At Heart and potential employees across the seven In addition, SSE needs to develop new skills employee volunteering scheme, which aims protected characteristics, as dened in the and exibility to manage new technologies.
It is, therefore, critical that employees of SSE to give 20,000 days of employee time to Equality Act 2010 sex, race, religion or belief, assisting worthwhile projects within the disability, pregnancy and maternity, disability, have the training, development and work communities that SSE serves.
sexual orientation and gender reassignment.
experience they need to full their potential.
The Employment Equality Age Regulations In order to do this, SSE uses a range of Within SSE, employee participation is 2006 have now been incorporated into the delivery media for training.
encouraged through adherence to the Equality Act 2010.
There were no occasions Companys Teamwork value.
The appraisal during 2011 12 when SSE was found to have During 2011 12, SSE invested 1.5m in failed to comply with legislation on equality.
externally-provided training and development, process for employees, including the senior management team, specically evaluates taking the total to 5.3m over the last three their performance in Teamwork, along Responsibilities years.
This helped to deliver training to 3,991 with performance in respect of SSEs other SSE also believes that employees have employees.
Training interventions included responsibilities, summarised in eight People the delivery of a number of development core values: Safety, Service, Efficiency, Sustainability and Excellence.
In keeping with Principles, adopted in 2008 and built around programmes run in partnership with selected these values, SSE produced and distributed its core value of Teamwork: universities focused on supporting the an updated code of business practice, Doing development of employees across the business.
These programmes included an the right thing in April 2011.
It highlights, Take all active steps to ensure there summarises and complements a range of is no intimidation or discrimination: MSc in Leadership and degree programmes ethics-related policies which SSE has in place.
Engage in safe, healthy and in Business and Customer Management.
It takes account of recent legislation such  working practices: SSE has technical and general training centres as the UKs Bribery Act 2010.
Always know and understand what is expected of you in your job: at Thatcham and Perth.
These centres enable In addition to a wide range of internal Maintain respect and support for people to train in the types of environment communication media and events, employee colleagues at all times: in which they will eventually work, providing a realistic experience in a safe, controlled participation in SSE is also encouraged through Work continuously to improve team the Chief Executives Blog, inter-active online and individual performance: setting.
This training is supplemented forums, divisionand subject-specic employee Obtain constructive feedback on your by operational awareness days, during surveys, Director-led regional roadshows performance from your line manager: which best-in-class working practices are and the Licence to Innovate scheme, which Receive appropriate training, development demonstrated to employees through detailed enables employees to research, review and and rewards: and coaching and assessment in operational test-trial new ideas.
Know and embrace the Companys environments.
SSE also announced that it will core values.
open a new Smart Energy Training Centre Employee engagement in Treforest, Wales during 2012.
This centre SSE recognises the value in attracting and Through the application of these principles, will focus on delivering skills to support the retaining an engaged workforce and runs SSE seeks to maintain a positive organisational delivery of services in key areas of energy culture and to provide a fullling place for efficiency and smart metering.
an annual  survey of employee engagement.
The results of the people to work.
2011 survey, which had a 70% response rate Joint Negotiating and and was completed by almost 10,000 of Performance management, Consultative Committee training and development SSE benets from a well-established Joint the 14,000 employees invited to participate, showed that SSE has an above benchmark SSE has in place a wide-ranging performance Negotiating and Consultative Committee employee engagement score of 73%.
management system, designed to make sure JNCC which includes lay and full-time that employees are able to full their potential representatives from four recognised trade unions.
During 2011 12, SSE and the JNCC Following this survey, a series of actions have and contribute as much as possible to the been put in place to address key employee achievement of SSEs goals and the delivery reached an agreement on a three-year engagement drivers identied in the surveys.
in practice of SSEs values.
For this reason, package, featuring pay increases, performance The Management Board has also set an the performance appraisal system is focused pay, exible working patterns, job stability, SSE Annual Report 2012 60 The SSE team continued technology.
Against this background, SSE commitments around non-outsourcing of visitor facilities in Dorset, Cheshire and key core activities, family-friendly working has two broad categories of research and Perthshire.
During 2011 12 a fundamental policies and an additional days holiday.
Joint development projects: review of the facilities was undertaken, Business Committees have been established, with opportunities for future development thematic, addressing pre-selected complementing the work of the JNCC by being identied: focusing on issues that affect particular parts knowledge gaps or development needs financial support for community of SSE.
Pay arrangements in SSEs Contracting within SSE: and programmes near wind farm developments division are in line with national construction responsive, which arise when an and in the wider regions where wind farms agreements.
opportunity and associated funding are developed: and emerges that can add value to SSE.
support for the work of schools through Innovation, research Eco Schools programmes.
and development There is a considerable amount of research and development-related work taking place Through these and other schemes, SSE The SSE team of people has extensive in SSE.
In total, during 2011 12, SSE initiated made payments of 6.1m to charitable knowledge, expertise and know-how.
New research and development projects with a and community programmes in the UK ideas, improvements to process and design value of 11.2m.
The large majority of this and Ireland during 2011 12. and innovation have been key to SSEs was in Networks for example low carbon successes to date and are fundamental to the networks and in the electricity generation During 2012 13, SSE expects to develop plans Companys ability to adapt to the challenges part of Wholesale for example, carbon for new visitor facilities at some of its major capture and storage.
Most of SSE Ventures sites, with enhanced educational links to of the future.
The Companys Excellence value states that: We strive to get better investments, such as Aquamarine Power partnership schools.
and smarter and more innovative and Ltd and Onzo Ltd, include an element of be the best in everything we do.
Suppliers and contractors As a spur to employee participation, idea SSE has also entered into an agreement with SSE depends upon an extended team of generation, continuous improvement and the University of Strathclyde to be a partner suppliers and contractors for the long-term operational excellence, SSE maintains in its Technology Innovation Centre.
The success of its business.
It aims to promote Centre is intended to share knowledge and and promotes a systematic approach to responsible practices within its supplier and implementing ideas that add value.
This is nd solutions to issues of economic and contractor base.
SSEs aims in this area include: through the Licence to Innovate scheme, under societal importance, including energy, and which any employee can suggest ideas for to help companies compete.
It is intended to improving contractors safety improving the way SSE operates, consistent with revolutionise the way researchers in academia performance: and its core values.
People with ideas with significant and industry collaborate and innovate.
2 potential are granted a Licence to Innovate, under which they can spend two months SSE also maintains a long-term outlook As part of this, SSE has adopted a supplier researching further their proposal.
Subject through the work of its Central Research relationship management approach to to the outcome of the research, the idea may Unit, which examines in detail issues which managing its most strategic supplier then be piloted prior to full implementation.
could affect SSE and its customers over relationships.
More broadly, SSE is joining The the next 40 years.
These range from Total Supplier Management System hosted by Over 9,700 Licences to Innovate were developments in hydrogen to energy an independent company, Achilles Information received from 3,400 employees during affordability and the impact of smart Limited.
This will provide SSE with online 2011 12, of which 497 were implemented.
information on suppliers, including categories A number of these Licences have helped relating to where they work on site, data on create value of around 70m, building on Community and safety, health and the environment and quality.
the 45m of value created in the previous charitable activities year.
Others have contributed to improved The Achilles carbon reduction programme performance in specic areas, such as safety, In support of its core values such as Service, allows suppliers to measure, manage and service and sustainability.
Sustainability and Teamwork, SSE has a report their organisational footprint via wide-ranging programme of communityCEMARS Certied Emissions Management To complement the Licence to Innovate based activities.
With its origins in the north and Reduction Scheme.
By the end of 2011 12, scheme, an SSE Entrepreneur competition of Scotland and central southern England, SSE had successfully encouraged 47 of its main attracted over 100 entrants.
The three winning and with over 19,000 employees throughout suppliers to sign up to the scheme.
SSE also ideas, which are receiving financial and other the UK and Ireland, SSE can make a positive successfully completed the process itself and resources, covered micro generation, energy impact to hundreds of communities.
The programme has four principal features: SSEs focus on innovation complements its work in research and development.
employee volunteering, under which For SSE, this means focusing on development, employees are given one day of leave to demonstration and deployment rather than support community programmes.
This reects the fact that 2011 12, 6,216 volunteer days were given SSE is, fundamentally, an adopter of to 570 projects in the UK and Ireland:
