Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 61 How the Board works There is normally full attendance at The Board is collectively responsible to the Board and Committee meetings, although occasionally there may be non-attendance Companys shareholders for the long-term due to unforeseen circumstances or prior commitments which could not be rearranged.
success of SSE and for its overall strategic If unable to attend a meeting, the Director will provide comments and feedback to direction, its values and its governance.
the Chairman, Committee Chairman or Company Secretary who ensures that the comments received are raised at the meeting.
The framework of corporate governance approval of interim and final financial Members of the Management Board are This report explains how the Company statements: invited to attend Board meetings on a applies the principles of The UK Corporate interim dividend payments and rotational basis.
Governance Code the Code issued by the recommendation of final dividends: Financial Reporting Council in June 2010. significant changes in accounting policy The table below sets out the attendance of and practice: the Directors at the scheduled Board meetings.
The Board confirms that the Company has, the Groups corporate governance throughout the period under review, complied and system of internal control: Attendance at Board meetings with all provisions set out in the Code, except Board and Committee membership: in the following respect: major acquisitions, mergers, disposals Attended scheduled and capital expenditure: Lord Smith of Kelvin 6 6 Code Provision D. 2.1 states: The Board should changes in the capital and structure Gregor Alexander 6 6 establish a Remuneration Committee of at of the Group: Thomas Thune Andersen 6 6 least three, or in the case of smaller companies approval of key policies such as safety, Jeremy Beeton 5 5 two, independent non-executive directors.
health and environment: and Katie Bickerstaffe 5 5 SSE was not compliant with this Code Provision regulatory matters including approval of Richard Gillingwater 6 6 from 1 April 2011 until 1 July 2011.
This was Price Control Reviews proposed by Ofgem Colin Hood 3 3 due to the resignation of Nick Baldwin as a and tariffs.
Ian Marchant 6 6 non-Executive Director on 1 April 2011 following Ren Mdori 6 6 his appointment as the interim chair of the The list is reviewed regularly by the Board Alistair Phillips-Davies 6 6 Lady Rice 6 6 Office for Nuclear Regulation.
The appointment and is published on the SSE website.
of Katie Bickerstaffe as a non-Executive Director and member of the Remuneration Committee The Board also has overall responsibility for did not take effect until she joined the Board risk management, which is reported in detail Roles of Chairman and Chief Executive on 1 July 2011.
Since then the Company has on pages 65 to 70.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief been fully compliant with the Code.
Executive are separate and clearly dened.
Attendance at Board and Organisation and structure Board Committee meetings The Chairman: The Board has six scheduled Board meetings is responsible for the operation, leadership Role of the Board each year.
These start with an evening and governance of the Board ensuring The Board is collectively responsible to the meeting when the Board is often given a that the Board operates effectively whilst Companys shareholders for the long-term presentation by senior management on a providing appropriate challenge to success of the Group and for its overall particular topic.
Occasionally the evening is management: strategic direction, its values and its used for discussions with external stakeholders.
identies individual Director training governance.
It provides the leadership The Board meeting then continues the needs and conducts the performance necessary for the Group to meet its business following day and is often followed by a evaluation: and objectives whilst ensuring that a sound meeting of one of the Board Committees such meets with shareholders, analysts and other system of internal control and risk as the Remuneration Committee or the Safety, representatives of institutional investors, management is in place.
Health and Environment Advisory Committee.
and participates in both the interim and In addition to the scheduled meetings the annual results presentations and the AGM.
Articles of Association Board has six update conference calls which The powers and duties of the Directors are held in the months between the The Chairman regularly meets with managers are determined by legislation and by the bi-monthly scheduled Board meetings.
These and employees at locations and key sites Companys Articles of Association, which calls usually last for around one hour and are throughout the Group.
are available on the SSE website.
used to update the Board on the business performance and to brief the Board on any The Chief Executive: Board decisions current issues.
A Board decision or approval leads the other Executive Directors, the may be required at the update conference A formal list of matters is specically reserved Managing Directors and the management to the Board for its decision, including: call if the matter cannot wait until the team in the day-to-day running and following scheduled Board meeting.
In these operations of the Group: Group strategy: circumstances the decision of the Board is implements the strategy and policy recorded by written resolution or minute.
annual budget: as agreed by the Board: and SSE Annual Report 2012 62 How the Board works continued Hood retired as an Executive Director represents the Company to external Board composition, gender % stakeholders, including shareholders, on 31 October 2011.
On 1 July 2011 Katie customers, suppliers, regulatory and Bickerstaffe and Jeremy Beeton were Male 80 Female 20 government authorities, and the appointed to the Board as independent non-Executive Directors.
resign from the Board on 25 June 2012.
In discharging his responsibilities, the Chief Executive is advised and assisted by the After all of these changes have taken place, Management Board and its Committees the Board will comprise the Chairman, three which oversee the operational and financial Executive Directors and five independent performance of, and issues facing, the non-Executive Directors.
The Management Board was set Board a good balance of independence and Board composition, sector % up in January 2011, and its role is explained experience, ensuring that no one individual Corporate finance 20 on page 63. or group of individuals has undue inuence Major projects 10 over the Boards decision-making.
Retail 10 Role of non-Executive Directors Natural resources 20 Banking 10 The non-Executive Directors are chosen for Diversity on the Board Utilities 30 their diversity of skills and experience.
Each The Davies Review, published in February non-Executive Director is appointed for a 2011 contained a review of Women on Boards xed term of three years.
This term may and recommended that FTSE 100 Boards then be renewed by mutual agreement.
The should aim for a minimum of 25% female non-Executive Directors appointment letters representation by 2015.
Upon the retirement Board composition, nationality % are available on the SSE website.
of Ren Mdori from the Board on 25 June 2012 female representation on the Board will American 10 The non-Executive Directors: be 22%.
The Company is committed to the Danish 10 approach on diversity set out in the Davies French 10 scrutinise, measure and review the Review, and will continue to take diversity British 70 matters into account for future Board and performance of management: assist in the development of strategy: management appointments.
review the Group financial information: ensure systems of internal control and risk Director independence management are appropriate and effective: The Board considers that the Chairman through the Audit Committee, review the was independent on appointment and all relationship with the external Auditors: and non-Executive Directors are independent review the remuneration of and succession for the purposes of the Code.
The continuing Biographical details for all the Directors are set out on page 57. planning for the Board.
independent and objective judgement of the non-Executive Directors was confirmed The Chairman and non-Executive Directors in the annual Board performance evaluation Board committees met twice during the year without the process.
On 24 July 2012 Lady Rice will have There are four Board committees.
The terms of reference of these committees Executive Directors being present.
served for nine years on the Board.
The Board are set by the Board, are reviewed regularly, has considered the length of service of Lady Senior Independent Director Rice and continues to view her as independent and are available on the SSE website.
Lady Rice is the Senior Independent Director in character and judgement.
She continues Membership is determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination and acts as a sounding board for the Chairman to have a broad range of external experience Committee and in consultation with each and serves as intermediary to other Directors which she brings to the Board.
Lady Rice carried out the valuable member of the Board, and Committee chairman.
Minutes of Board contributes signicantly to the Boards Committee meetings apart from the Chairmans performance evaluation, together Remuneration Committee minutes with the other non-Executive Directors and deliberations.
She will continue to chair the are included on the agenda of the with input from the Executive Directors.
Her position and also undertook management visits during independence will continue to be regularly next Board meeting for information.
reviewed and scrutinised by the Nomination the year.
From 24 July 2012 the position of The relationship between the Board, Board Senior Independent Director will be taken Committee and the Board.
Committees and the management of the by Richard Gillingwater.
The Board evaluation process also confirmed Company is summarised in the chart to the that the performance of the Directors right.
Details of each Board Committee, Balance of the Board including membership, meetings, role and The composition of the Board and its continued to be effective and that they Committees is regularly reviewed to ensure continue to demonstrate commitment in their activities in 2011 12, are set out in the that the balance and mix of skills and respective roles.
The Board has agreed that Committee reports on pages 71 to 86. experience is maintained.
each Director shall be subject to annual Management Board re-appointment and as such all Directors On 1 April 2011, Nick Baldwin resigned from other than Ren Mdori will stand for The Management Board is responsible for his position as non-Executive Director.
Colin re-appointment at the 2012 AGM.
implementing policy and strategy set by the Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 63 held between individual Directors and senior 10,000.
Any advice obtained shall be made Board and for the operational management of all SSEs businesses.
available to the other members of the Board, Board comprises the three Executive if the Board so requests.
This procedure was Directors and the seven Managing Directors Meetings, briengs and site visits were not required to be used during the year.
All Directors have access to the advice and representing the key areas of the business.
arranged for the non-Executive Directors The Chief Executive of SGN also attends during the year.
The briengs covered subjects services of the Company Secretary.
meetings of the Management Board.
The such as operational activities and major Management Board meets monthly and the projects, and the visits included wind farms The Company operates performance coaching minutes of the meeting are also provided and other major operational sites.
for some of the Executive Directors and for to the Board for information.
other members of senior management which On joining the Board, Directors receive a is designed to develop and enhance individual Board effectiveness comprehensive induction course tailored to and Company performance.
their individual requirements which includes Information and meetings with the Executive Directors and Executive Directors other directorships professional development senior management, visits to key sites, and Executive Directors may be invited to become The Directors receive detailed financial and meetings with key stakeholders.
It also covers non-Executive Directors of other companies.
operational information to allow them to a review of the Groups governance, policies, Approval may be given to accept such monitor effectively the performance of the structure and business including details of the invitations recognising the benefit to the business.
Board and Committee papers are risks and operational issues facing SSE.
Katie individual and to the Company.
Any such Bickerstaffe and Jeremy Beeton received a full appointments are included in the biographical issued for review in advance of meetings.
At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive induction programme, which included two information set out on page 57 and any fees presents an update report on any major days at SSEs Head Office in Perth, visiting are disclosed in the Remuneration report.
current matters from the Groups business: various parts of the business.
In addition, Jeremy Beeton visited Peterhead Power Conflicts of interest the Finance Director presents a report on financial performance and the Board Station and Katie Bickerstaffe visited the During the year a review of the Directors receives a detailed business report from major customer contact and IT centre interests and appointments was carried out the Management Board.
The Board also at Havant and the zero-carbon homes by the Company Secretary and a report was provided to the Nomination Committee for receives regular updates on the progress development at Slough.
They both also had and performance of investments, and a a full brieng with the Companys brokers.
review and recommendation to the Board.
detailed key performance indicator report.
The full Board then considered and authorised As part of the annual Board evaluation each Directors reported actual or potential conicts of interest at the Board meeting During the year, the Board and Committees process the training and development were kept up to date with developments needs of individual Directors are reviewed in January 2012.
In accordance with the through a programme of briengs by by the Chairman.
The Company makes the Companys Articles of Association and relevant Executive Directors and senior management necessary resources available should any legislation, each Director abstained from on the full range of business areas.
approval of their own position.
The Board briengs and presentations were given on continues to monitor and review potential areas such as corporate governance, There is an agreed procedure for Directors conicts of interest on a regular basis.
regulatory development, risk, strategy, energy to be able to take independent professional trading, health and safety, major projects, advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Performance evaluation and SSEs major business activities generally.
The prior approval of the Chairman is required The Board, its Committees and the individual Separate more informal meetings were also where the cost of such advice is likely to exceed Directors participate in an annual evaluation of performance.
The Board evaluation process this year was Governance structure carried out by internal questionnaire and individual meetings, following an external-led review in 2010.
The outcome of the evaluation Board of Directors process was considered at the Board meeting held in January 2012.
The findings of the evaluation continued to be positive and the suggestions included further consideration Safety, Health Audit Nomination Remuneration and Environment of diversity and succession planning, more Committee Committee Committee Advisory Committee specic briengs on matters such as Energy Trading and Risk, and wider sector-related topics to be brought to future meetings.
Management Board The Directors also participated in detailed reviews of individual performance which were carried out in separate meetings with the Safety, Health Business Disclosure and Major Projects Risk and Trading and Environment Development Governance Standards and Chairman.
The process for evaluating the Committee Committee Committee Committee Delivery Committee Chairman was managed by the Senior SSE Annual Report 2012 64 How the Board works continued institutional shareholders from time to time to views, hear their suggestions and address Independent Director which involved a separate meeting with the non-Executive gain a first-hand understanding of key issues.
Directors and included feedback from the Executive Directors.
All of the Directors Lady Rice, the Senior Independent Director, is More generally, working with public policy available to shareholders if they have concerns makers is a vital area for the Company, continued to make an effective contribution to the work of the Board and its Committees, that contact through the normal channels given the high prole of energy and were well informed and demonstrated full has either failed to resolve or is deemed environment-related issues in the UK and commitment to their duties.
She attended the interim elsewhere.
The Company engages with stakeholders in several ways: satisfied that the performance evaluation results presentation in November 2011. process identied the main areas for further review.
An external evaluation process is Communications with shareholders constructive engagement where carried out every three years as recommended SSEs website contains up-to-date appropriate with Ofgem, which is responsible for promoting competition, by the Code, with the next one due in 2012 13. information for shareholders and other interested parties including share price and regulating the monopoly companies Engagement with shareholders information, announcements and news which run the gas and electricity networks: and major stakeholders releases, investor and analyst presentations, ongoing dialogue with Ministers and and a section containing information on officials in government, including the Disclosure and Governance Committee shareholder services.
The Companys Annual devolved administrations in the UK: The Disclosure and Governance Committee Report and other shareholder circulars are submissions to government and also published on the SSE website.
Parliamentary consultations and inquiries: is responsible for overseeing the Companys framework for the identication, release meetings with, and briengs of, elected and control of announcements and other Shareholders have a choice of how to receive members of all parties in legislatures: information of interest to shareholders and their Company communications such as the engagement with local authority elected Annual Report.
The Company recognises the members and officials: the investment community.
The Committee assists in developing the investor relations benefit of electronic communications and active participation in relevant trade strategy and reviews and implements encourages shareholders to receive electronic associations and bodies: and governance developments.
In recognition of the reduced discussions with non-governmental cost and environmental impact of this form organisations and other relevant comprises: the Chief Executive: Finance Director: Company Secretary: Managing of communication, the Company, on behalf organisations such as charities.
Director, Corporate Affairs: Head of Investor of shareholders, makes a donation to the Relations and Analysis: and the Assistant World Wildlife Funds International Forest The Companys objective is to ensure that it is able to perform its core purpose of providing Company Secretary.
The Committee meets Programme for every shareholder that as required and had five meetings in the year.
elects for email communication or receives the energy people need in a reliable and Company documentation via the SSE website.
Its principal public policy Relations with shareholders goal at present is to ensure that there is in place a framework to enable it to invest in The Company continued to maintain an Annual General Meeting effective dialogue with shareholders, based The Companys AGM will be held at the secure and lower-carbon supplies of energy in on a mutual understanding of objectives.
Bournemouth International Centre, Exeter the UK and Ireland.
In pursuing public policy The Board believes that this is fundamental Road, Bournemouth BH2 5BH on 26 July 2012 goals, SSE always aims to deploy evidence and arguments that are consistent with its to ensuring that the Companys strategy is at 12 noon.
Details of the business to be understood and that any questions or issues proposed at the meeting are contained purpose, values and strategy as outlined are dealt with in a constructive way.
in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
in this Report and to do so in a way that '1.. 0-.
-, 1' #@ F The Company maintains regular contact with The AGM provides an opportunity for the institutional shareholders, fund managers and Board to meet with shareholders and provide analysts through a programme of dialogue, an update on the performance and plans of the Company.
Shareholders are invited to meetings, presentations, events and site visits led by the Chief Executive and Finance ask questions at the AGM and to meet the Director.
The Head of Investor Relations Directors and senior managers.
Jeremy Beeton and Analysis has day-to-day responsibility may be unable to attend the 2012 AGM due to a prior commitment as Director General for communications with institutional shareholders.
Brokers reports and analysts of the UK Government Olympic Executive.
briengs are distributed to the Directors.
The Board receives regular reports on the various Communications with other stakeholders issues raised by institutional shareholders, The Directors have a programme of events fund managers and analysts which allow the to meet with a range of external stakeholders Directors to form a view of the priorities and representing the public sector, investment concerns of the Companys stakeholders.
community, environmental affairs, and consumer interests.
The purpose of these The Chairman participated in the Companys events is to discuss the Companys position on results presentations in May 2011 and a range of business, policy and public interest November 2011.
The Chairman meets major issues and to learn more about stakeholders
