Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 67 Internal Control Assurance Process Board of Directors Safety, Health Audit Management and Environment Committee Board Advisory Committee Major Projects Safety, Health Business Disclosure and Risk and Trading Group Audit Standards and and Environment Development Governance Committee Delivery Committee Committee Committee Commitee Business Units committees, namely: the Risk and Trading Role of committees Committee: the Safety, Health, and The role of the Audit Committee, and the Environment Committee: the Major Projects Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Standards and Delivery Committee: the Committee in the Groups system of internal Disclosure and Governance Committee: and control and risk management is set out in the the Business Development Committee: and individual committee reports.
receives and reviews regular presentations and reports from all the main Group The Boards review of internal control businesses.
While the Board retains overall responsibility, reviewing the system of internal control and The Group Audit department: monitoring its effectiveness is primarily dealt works with the business units to develop with by the Audit Committee, and its output and improve risk-management tools and is reviewed at least annually by the Board.
processes in their business operations: The Board and the Audit Committee have ensures that business risks are identied, reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys managed and regularly reviewed and that risk management and internal control system the key risks are reported to the Audit in accordance with the Code for the period Committee and Board: from 1 April 2011 to 15 May 2012 being ensures that the business units carry out the last practical day prior to the printing regular reviews on their internal controls of this Annual Report.
The Board confirms relating to the key risks: that appropriate action would have been monitors the effectiveness of SSEs system taken to address any significant failings or weaknesses identied: however, of internal control through audit reviews, exercises and reports and, where appropriate, no intervention has been required.
action plans to senior managers, Directors, the Audit Committee and external Auditors: The internal control procedures described in monitors adherence to SSEs key policies this section have not been extended to cover and principles: and its interests in joint ventures.
The Group has provides the Audit Committee and Board Board representation on its joint venture with objective assurance on SSEs control companies where separate systems of environment.
"2#""@ F Risk management depends on a strong system of internal control, which is fundamental to achieving SSEs strategic objectives."
SSE Annual Report 2012 68 Risk management continued Principal risks and their management Risk denition Key controls overview Developments during the year Safety management Safety is the first of SSEs core values.
The The Terms of Reference for the SHEAC were Unsafe working practices, equipment and Safety, Health and Environment Advisory reviewed and updated during 2011 12.
There inadequate training may lead to accidents Committee SHEAC of the Board is responsible is now greater non-Executive membership or incidents involving employees, contractors, for ensuring SSEs health and safety policy on the SHEAC.
The SHE Committee of the members of the public or plant and equipment.
The detailed report from this Management Board is also fully established, Committee is on page 74.
The Management with key priority areas including a CompanyBoard also has a SHE Committee.
Regulatory change An experienced Regulation Department The GB energy regulator, Ofgem, adopted a An adverse change to the current regulatory manages SSEs relationships and interface high prole during 2011 12, with a particular framework in all parts of SSE could have a with Ofgem, Ofwat, Ofcom and other emphasis on the Retail Market Review and significant effect on its business.
SSE assesses and anticipates the RIIO process for determining regulated regulatory issues in its decision-making networks price control all of which and operations.
emphasised the ongoing signicance of regulation to SSE.
Legislative change SSE has Policy and Public Affairs specialists The UK government is engaged in a process Risks to SSE from unfavourable legislative based in Brussels, London, Edinburgh, Cardiff, of electricity market reform which could lead developments at EU level and in the Belfast and Dublin who engage openly and to profound changes in the energy market jurisdictions in which it operates.
constructively with legislators, officials and in Great Britain.
In addition, the Scottish and other policy-makers on all aspects of energy UK governments have consulted on proposals and related environment policy.
for a referendum on Scottish independence which has a risk to SSE of uncertainty until the result is known.
Energy portfolio management The Board approves levels of exposure which The process of the UK energy prices Failure to identify and effectively manage are strictly monitored through sophisticated becoming increasingly integrated into the the physical and financial exposures that reporting and clear reporting limits.
The wider global energy market is continuing result from SSEs operational involvement in Management Board has a Risk and Trading and as a result there is an increasing focus Generation, Gas Storage, Fuel Procurement, Committee, with members drawn from a on macro-economic and geopolitical issues Wholesale Trading and Retail Supply.
number of key functions across SSE.
in the ongoing management of the portfolio.
Asset and plant management SSEs Engineering Centre oversees a process SSE has always emphasised the need for Loss or extended disruption to key Group of asset life management and risk-based exibility in its generation assets to ensure Infrastructure caused by failure loss of management.
Regular testing, review and that changes in supply of and demand for containment of key plant.
updating of major incident handling processes electricity can be managed.
Capital spending and maintenance decided to start a comprehensive programme programmes are maintained and the Risk and of maintenance at two gas-red power Trading Committee provides oversight.
stations to support more exible operations.
Networks management Substantial refurbishment and upgrade The winter of 2011 12 represented the Loss or extended disruption to key Group programmes are designed to prevent network biggest challenge to electricity network network Infrastructure.
There is a rigorous post-event analysis resilience for a generation, with a succession following each major network event such as of major weather events resulting in storms.
Business continuity plans, supported significant losses of electricity supply.
by contingency sites and regular testing, are The implications of this will be reected well-established.
Cyber security has been a particularly Cyber information security SSE has in place an actively managed Unauthorised access or disclosure of data Information Security programme across all prominent issue in the UK and elsewhere either within the SSE Group or between SSE of its activities to ensure resilient business during 2011 12, with individual sectors and and external environments and markets.
SSE is increasing its investment in information security.
Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 69 Principal risks and their management Risk denition Key controls overview Developments during the year Supply chain SSEs diverse businesses help reduce reliance A supplier relationship model has been put Delivery of large-scale investment on specic supply chains and the sustainability in place to build relationships with strategic programme is impacted through failure to value requires a long-term view to be taken.
suppliers and put SSE in the position of being establish, contract and maintain adequate Well-established procurement teams ensure a key customer.
In the high risk categories supply chains and strategic alliances.
varying supply chains are identied and long-term contracts are being implemented counterparty exposures monitored.
This is designed to secure supply chains and ensure value for money.
Treasury management The Risk and Trading Committee oversees any During 2011 12, SSE continued its approach Failure to identify and effectively manage major changes to treasury policy or objectives.
of maintaining diversity in its funding sources treasury and tax exposures and to meet the Regular reporting of treasury activity is made through successfully reopening the European organisations funding requirements and to the Audit Committee and Board.
Strong corporate bond market in September 2011 obligations.
internal controls are maintained and and undertaking a private placement of independent reviews take place.
senior notes with US-based investors in February 2012. Credit management There is Executive Director-level representation The general economic climate in the UK Failure to effectively manage billing and in debt steering group meetings.
Ongoing and Ireland has resulted in significant debt collection counterparty risk.
credit monitoring and reporting are supported management challenges, with the volume of by credit management teams throughout work increasing and with the need to deploy the Company.
practical steps to work with customers becoming increasingly critical.
Pension liabilities There are periodic formal valuations of pension Continued improvements of member Liabilities increase due to market conditions schemes and contributions supported by longevity will likely add to the liabilities or demographic changes and investments continual monitoring of scheme investments of both the Scottish Hydro-Electric and under perform.
Performance of investment Southern Electric Pension Schemes.
managers are reviewed regularly by the Uncertainty of markets in Eurozone could pension trustees.
detract from investment performance directly impacting scheme funding levels.
Sector developments There is a strong external focus to ensure 2011 12 saw four significant developments Failure to identify tardiness in identifying developments are anticipated and, where which will inuence the sector for the long step changes in the industry sectors and appropriate, addressed.
Senior managers term: electricity market reform: the Retail reacting appropriately.
have responsibility for areas such as policy Market Review and the RIIO model for and research, strategy and business economic regulation in Great Britain: and development.
Participation in these areas the process of harmonisation affecting is broad, to ensure all relevant sector energy markets on the island of Ireland.
SSE is actively involved in giving input to policy and regulatory developments in each of these areas.
Large capital projects management The deployment and updating of SSEs Large During 2011 12, SSE reallocated responsibility Failure to deliver quality projects on time Capital Project Governance Framework is for large capital projects, focusing on three key and on budget.
designed to ensure projects are governed, areas: renewable energy: thermal generation: developed, approved and executed in an and networks.
The Management Board effective manner.
established a Major Projects Standards and Delivery Committee.
Transformation projects management SSE works with experienced advisers and In the course of 2011 12, the remit of SSEs Failure to deliver quality projects on time and suppliers and implements a strong governance Project Services team was extended to include on budget to implement required upgrades and assurance framework for all aspects of centralised expertise and support for all of to customer systems in relation to Smart major change programmes.
The approach SSEs significant projects, not just large capital Metering and the Energy Supply business increasingly reects the governance framework projects.
The new Management Board Major requirements.
originally developed for large capital projects.
Projects Standards and Delivery Committee reviews all major projects.
SSE Annual Report 2012 70 Risk management continued Principal risks and their management Risk denition Key controls overview Developments during the year Compliance management Wide-ranging consultation and review of During 2011 12 SSE was prosecuted in Any significant or multiple compliance all relevant regulatory, legal and accounting relation to the use of direct sales aids by failures could result in an adverse effect frameworks takes place.
SSE took the lead by being on SSE, including the possibility of financial and Group Audit teams develop and monitor the first of the big six energy suppliers to stop penalties being levied.
doorstep selling activities in the UK, which is an example of the seriousness with which SSE regards compliance with all its obligations.
Crisis management The corporate crisis management policy and In 2011 12, SSE refreshed its crisis Inadequate response to a major emergency procedure are updated and issued annually.
management and emergency planning contingency event.
If something goes wrong, There is Executive training and regular test approach.
Senior roles and responsibilities how well can SSE deal with it?
A member of the have been dened, facilities have been Management Board champions crisis enhanced and Group-level exercises have management.
been undertaken to practise SSEs response capabilities.
Management of joint ventures Joint ventures are in themselves a means of SSE continues to enter into joint venture Failure to effectively manage SSE Joint managing risk, but SSEs interests in them also arrangements, particularly for large Venture assets results in reputational require careful management and oversight.
Joint ventures damage or destruction in value.
This is provided through clear governance are particularly critical in the development arrangements, senior manager representation and construction of wind farms offshore on Boards, and effective reporting within SSE and during the year the new role of Head to the Management Board and the Board of JV Management was created within as required.
SSEs renewable energy division, to reinforce oversight and management of joint ventures.
Succession planning The Nomination Committee of the Board Colin Hood, Chief Operating Officer, stepped Not having cover for the Board and the is responsible for reviewing the leadership down from the Board in October 2011.
His Management Board and their direct reports.
needs of senior management in general and Board-level responsibilities were reallocated succession plans for the Executive Directors among existing Executive Directors and his in particular.
The detailed report for this operational responsibilities were divided Committee is on page 71. between members of the Management Board.
The handover and transition proved to be effective.
Resource and internal infrastructure An integrated Group Services function In the course of 2011 12, SSE sought to strike Inability to establish and maintain a is in place to ensure optimum resource the balance between cost efficiency and competent workforce.
Failure to forward plan management, including Safety, HR, IT, investment in adequate resources for the and identify a capabilities matrix to match Facilities Management and Procurement.
A particular focus was IT, where the new growth plans.
Portfolio of assets Buildings, Director of IT led the implementation of plans transport and IT not maintained and to improve operational performance, service enhanced to support business plans.
Corporate arrogance or hubris There is Board oversight of this, and practical External criticism of energy suppliers was Unwarranted belief in SSEs own abilities, application throughout SSE, including through substantial during 2011 12.
In response, SSE failure to keep listening and to keep the performance appraisal system, of the SSE developed its proposals to build trust in challenging conventional wisdom.
SET of core values: Safety, Service, Efficiency, energy supply which explicitly accepted Sustainability, Excellence and Teamwork.
Ofgems analysis that in an environment of higher prices, suppliers have to transform the way they deal with customers.
