SSE Annual Report 2012 56 Board of Directors The Board of Directors From left: Ian Marchant, Lord Smith of Kelvin, Lady Rice CBE, Jeremy In March, the Board of Directors met at the UKs first Beeton, Thomas Thune Andersen, Gregor Alexander, Alistair Phillips-Davies, Power of Now exhibition and all-electric vehicle centre at Richard Gillingwater CBE, Katie Bickerstaffe, Ren Mdori.
the Scottish Hydro Centre for Renewable Excellence in Glasgow.
The Management Board From left: David Franklin, Rob McDonald, Jim McPhillimy, Mark Mathieson, Jim Smith, Paul Smith, Alan Young, John Morea in attendance Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 57 The Board of Directors Management Board Lord Smith of Kelvin Jeremy Beeton David Franklin is Managing Director, Energy Chairman Non-Executive Director Portfolio Management.
He joined SSE in 1990 and Robert joined the Board as a non-Executive Director Jeremy joined the Board as non-Executive Director is responsible for SSEs participation in wholesale in July 2011.
He is the Director General of the UK in June 2003 and became Chairman in January 2005. markets for electricity, gas, coal, oil and carbon Government Olympic Executive.
He was previously He is also: Chairman of the Weir Group plc: a nondioxide emissions allowances.
Executive Director of Standard Bank Group Ltd: Principal Vice President of Bechtel Ltd, where he Chairman of Glasgow 2014 Ltd, the organising had responsibility for management and delivery of Rob McDonald is Managing Director, Regulation committee for the Commonwealth Games: and Bechtels civil engineering projects in infrastructure and Strategy.
He joined SSE in 1997 and is responsible Chancellor of the University of the West of Scotland.
He is a member of for regulation, energy economics, legal services, new Robert is Chairman of the Nomination Committee the Audit, Nomination, and Safety, Health and ventures and strategy.
and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Jim McPhillimy is Managing Director, Group Services.
Ian Marchant Katie Bickerstaffe He joined SSE in 1995 and is responsible for the Groups Chief Executive Non-Executive Director corporate services including safety, human resources, Ian was appointed Chief Executive in October 2002, Katie joined the Board as non-Executive Director in IT and procurement.
having been Finance Director since 1998.
She is Chief Executive UK and Ireland of in the energy industry since 1992, when he joined Dixons Retail plc.
She was previously Managing Director Mark Mathieson is Managing Director, Networks.
of Kwik Save, and Group Retail Director and Group HR Southern Electric.
He is Senior Independent Director He joined SSE in 1988 and is responsible for SSEs Director at Somereld.
Her earlier career included roles of John Wood Group plc and a non-Executive Director Electricity Networks, Lighting Services and of Maggies Cancer Centres.
He gets involved in a wide at Dyson, PepsiCo and Unilever.
She is a member of Telecoms businesses.
range of other business connected with his role as Chief the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Ian is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Jim Smith is Managing Director, Renewables.
Richard Gillingwater CBE He joined SSE in 1988 and is responsible for renewable Lady Rice CBE Non-Executive Director energy development and construction.
Senior Independent Director and Richard joined the Board as a non-Executive Director Remuneration Committee Chairman in May 2007.
He is Dean of Cass Business School and Paul Smith is Managing Director, Generation.
Susan joined the Board as non-Executive Director in July is non-Executive Chairman of CDC Group plc and the He joined SSE in 1998 and is responsible for operational 2003 and was appointed Senior Independent Director Senior Independent Director of Hiscox Ltd.
He was generation and gas storage businesses, which include in 2007.
She is Managing Director of Lloyds Banking previously Chairman of European Investment Banking coal, gas, hydro and all operational onshore and Group Scotland.
Susan is also a non-Executive Director at CSFB.
Richard is a member of the Audit, Remuneration offshore wind.
of the Court of the Bank of England, where she chairs and Nomination Committees.
the Audit and Risk Committee, of Big Society Capital Alan Young is Managing Director, Corporate Ren Mdori and Scotlands Futures Forum.
She chairs the Boards Affairs.
He joined SSE in 2001 and is responsible for of the Edinburgh International Book Festival and the Non-Executive Director and corporate communications, public affairs, community Edinburgh Festivals Forum and is a member of the First Audit Committee Chairman programmes and foresighting.
Ministers Council of Economic Advisers.
Susan chairs Ren joined the Board as a non-Executive Director in the Remuneration Committee and is a member of the June 2003.
He is Finance Director of Anglo American John Morea attends meetings of SSEs Management Nomination Committee.
plc and is a non-Executive Director of Anglo Platinum, Board.
He is the Chief Executive of SGN, which owns DB fide Beers Investments and Petrofac Ltd.
He is and operates gas distribution networks in Scotland and Gregor Alexander Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member southern England and in which SSE has a 50% stake.
Finance Director of the Nomination Committee.
Gregor was appointed Finance Director in September 2002, having previously been Group Treasurer and Alistair Phillips-Davies The Board of SGN Tax Manager.
He has worked in the energy industry Generation and Supply Director since 1990, when he joined Scottish Hydro Electric.
Alistair was appointed Energy Supply Director in SSE is entitled to appoint four out of the eight Directors January 2002.
He became Generation and Supply He has Board level responsibility for Finance, Human on SGNs Board reecting its 50% shareholding in SGN.
Director in December 2010 after taking responsibility Resources, IT, Procurement and other Group Services.
The SSE employees who serve on the Board of SGN are: Gregor is Chairman of SGN.
He has worked in the Gregor Alexander, Finance Director: Jim McPhillimy, energy industry since 1997, when he joined Southern Managing Director, Group Services: Natalie Bruce, Thomas Thune Andersen Electric.
He is a director of Energy UK.
Alistair has Board Head of Metering: and Rob McDonald, Managing Non-Executive Director and Safety, Health and level responsibility for Wholesale and Retail activities.
Environment Advisory Committee Chairman Thomas joined the Board as a non-Executive Director in January 2009.
He is the Chairman of Lloyds Register Group, Chairman of DeepOcean Group, Vice-Chairman of the VKR Holding Group VELUX and a non-Executive Director of Petrofac Ltd.
He was previously CEO of Maersk Oil and a partner in the A. P. Moeller Group.
He is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees and Chairman of the Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Committee.
Changes to the Board Ren Mdori will step down from the Board of SSE on 25 June 2012.
On that date, Richard Gillingwater, non-Executive Director, will become Chairman of the Audit Committee and he will become Senior Independent Director on 24 July 2012 in place of Lady Rice.
A fuller explanation of these changes is set out on page 62.
