Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 71 Nomination Committee Candidates from a wide range of backgrounds Members and meetings Attended are considered and appointments are made Membership scheduled on merit, with due regard for the benets of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The Lord Smith of Kelvin 2 2 selection process generally involves interviews Thomas Thune Andersen 2 2 Jeremy Beeton 2 2 with a number of candidates, using the Katie Bickerstaffe 2 2 services of a professional search rm Richard Gillingwater 2 2 specialising in Board level recruitment.
Ian Marchant 2 2 Ren Mdori 2 2 The Committee also reviews succession Lord Smith of Kelvin Lady Rice 2 2 Nomination Committee Chairman planning and leadership needs in the course of its work taking into account the risks and opportunities facing the Company, and from I chair the Nomination Committee.
this identies the skills and expertise required The membership also includes all of the from the Board and senior management team.
non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
Activities in 2011 12 As Company Chairman, I would not chair The Nomination Committee had two meetings the meeting if it was dealing with any matter during the year.
The business covered at the concerning the chairmanship of the Board.
meetings included the following: In this case the meeting would be chaired by a non-Executive Director elected by the a full review of Committee chairmanship remaining members.
Members of the and membership following the appointment of Katie Bickerstaffe and Jeremy Beeton Committee do not take part in discussions when their own performance or when their to the Board: continued appointment is being considered.
consideration of proposals for management succession on the retirement of Colin Hood as Chief Operating Officer: The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Nomination Committee.
the review and re-appointment of certain non-Executive Directors for further xed Role periods and review of the position of Senior The Nomination Committees role is to review Independent Director: the leadership needs of the Board and senior consideration of the Companys approach management, with a view to ensuring SSEs and response to the Davies Review on continued ability to compete effectively in the Women on Boards: and marketplace.
The Nomination Committees the annual review of the Directors Conicts remit, which is set out in its terms of reference, of Interests declaration.
includes responsibility for: As part of the Board evaluation process, the reviewing the structure, size and operation of the Nomination Committee was composition of the Board and its evaluated and it was confirmed that the Committees and making recommendations Committee was operating effectively.
to the Board on any desired changes: Lord Smith of Kelvin reviewing the succession plans for the Chairman Executive Directors: making recommendations to the Board on suitable candidates to ll vacancies for both non-Executive and Executive Directors: ensuring that the procedure for appointing new Directors is rigorous and transparent and that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria: reviewing potential conicts of interest of Directors: and reviewing the external commitments of the Directors and the time required to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Before a Board appointment is made, the Committee evaluates the skills, knowledge and experience of the Board to ensure that any new appointment complements these qualities.
