Audit Committee report the nature and quantum of non-audit services.
Assurances are obtained from 6.1 Composition of the Audit Committee the auditors that they and their staff have no financial, business, The membership of the Audit Committee is summarised in section 5.7.
Garry employment, family or other personal relationship with the Group that could Watts is the current Chairman of the Audit Committee and is a Chartered affect the auditors independence and objectivity, taking account of relevant Accountant, a former audit partner, a former Finance Director and Chief Ethical Standards.
The auditors explain to the Audit Committee their policies Executive of FTSE 350 companies and is also a member of the audit and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance committee of a large quoted NYSE listed company.
He is competent in both with relevant requirements.
The designated Committee member with Whilst the Group has no set frequency for tendering the external audit, the recent and relevant financial experience is therefore Garry Watts.
Phil White is a former Finance Director and former Chief Executive of a FTSE 350 company Groups external audit was last tendered in 2002 and resulted in a change of and is also a Chartered Accountant.
Helen Mahy is a Barrister, an Associate of external auditors.
The audit engagement partner last changed in 2011.
The Group is not aware of any restrictions that would limit its choice of external the Chartered Insurance Institute and is a current Company Secretary and General Counsel of a FTSE 100 company.
The Audit Committee, having considered the external auditors performance during their period in office, recommends re-appointment.
The audit fees of 6.2 Operation of the Audit Committee 0.8m 2011: 0.8m for  LLP and non-audit related fees of 0.2m 2011: less than 0.1m were discussed by the Audit The Audit Committee met three times during the year and has also met a Committee and considered appropriate given the current size of the Group further time in June 2012.
The Committee retains discretion as to who from and the level of corporate activity undertaken during the year.
outside the Committee should attend its meetings but generally invites the following to attend: The Committee believes that the level and scope of non-audit services does The Group Finance Director: not impair the objectivity of the auditors and that there is a clear benefit obtained from using professional advisors who have a good understanding of The Director of Finance & Company Secretary: the Groups operations.
Other accounting or consulting firms have been used The Deputy Company Secretary, who is Secretary to the Committee: where the Group recognises them as having particular areas of expertise or Representatives from the external auditors: where potential conflicts of interest for the auditors are identified.
Representatives from the Risk Assurance Function.
In addition, the Group Tax Director is expected to present to the Committee at least annually.
6.4 Policy on the Auditors Providing Other directors, including the Chairman of the Company, are also welcome to Non-Audit Services attend meetings of the Committee and do so from time to time.
Procedures in respect of other services provided by the auditors are in place to The Committee receives reports from major business functions including the safeguard audit objectivity and independence.
The Groups policies on nonRisk Assurance Function internal audit, which is outsourced and managed audit services are: by Deloitte.
It also receives reports from the external auditors.
It considers the Audit related services These are services that the auditors must undertake scope and results of the audit, the half-year and annual financial statements or are best placed to undertake by virtue of their role as auditors.
Such and the accounting and internal control systems in place throughout the services include formalities relating to bank financing, regulatory reports, Group.
The Audit Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, independence and certain shareholder circulars.
The auditors would generally provide all and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the Groups Tax consulting It is the Groups policy to select the advisor for each website at specific piece of tax consulting work who has the most appropriate skills http: www.
com media Files S Stagecoachand experience for the work required.
The Group uses a range of advisors Group Attachments about .
pdf for tax consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the work being undertaken.
General consulting For other consulting work, the Group will select an advisor after taking account of the skills and experience required and the 6.3 Review of External Auditors expected cost of the work.
The Group uses a range of advisors for general The Audit Committee has responsibility delegated from the Board for making consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the work recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and being undertaken.
The auditors are only permitted to provide general remuneration of the external auditors.
There have been no instances of consulting when the Group, the Audit Committee and the auditors are disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the satisfied that there are no circumstances that would lead to a threat to the external auditors.
audit teams independence or a conflict of interest that could not be Subject to the annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders, the Audit effectively mitigated.
Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship between the Group and the auditors.
This review includes: the consideration of audit fees that should be paid and advance approval 6.5 Review of Risk Assurance Function of any other fees in excess of 50,000 per annum which are payable to The Audit Committee has the responsibility for making recommendations on auditors or affiliated firms in respect of non-audit activities: the appointment, reappointment, removal and remuneration of the Group the consideration of the auditors independence and objectivity: Risk Assurance Function internal auditors.
There have been no instances of disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the the nature and scope of the external audit and the arrangements which Risk Assurance Function.
have been made to ensure co-ordination where more than one audit firm or offices of the same firm are involved: and The Audit Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship discussions on such issues as compliance with accounting standards.
between the Group and the Risk Assurance Function.
This review includes a consideration of independence and objectivity, the overall level of fees, the The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the external audit quality of the risk assurance process, and the role of the function in the process on an annual basis.
This assessment includes consideration of the context of the broader sources of risk assurance.
auditors independence and objectivity, taking into consideration relevant laws, regulations and professional requirements.
The assessment involves The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the risk assurance considering all relationships between the Group and the auditors, including function on an annual basis.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 37 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:47 Page 38 Audit Committee report 6.6 Code of Conduct and Speaking Up Policy The Committee considered reports from the Audit Committee of Virgin Rail Group on matters relevant to that joint venture.
The Audit Committee reviews compliance with the Groups Code of Conduct As described in section 6.6, the Groups Code of Conduct and Speaking Up and use of the Groups Speaking Up policy, which provides a mechanism for Policy were reviewed by the Committee.
employees with serious concerns about the conduct of the Group or its employees to report those concerns.
The Committee ensures that appropriate Minutes of the Treasury Committee meetings comprising members of arrangements are in place to receive and act proportionately upon a management were shared with the Audit Committee.
The Committee takes a particular interest in The Committee reviewed a summary of the Directors expense claims.
any reports of possible improprieties in financial reporting.
Any known Overall, the Committee considers that it has continued to operate effectively instances of fraud affecting the Group are reported to the Audit Committee.
6.7 Focus over the last year The Audit Committee has considered a wide range of matters at its three meetings over the last year and received various reports and presentations as follows: Garry Watts Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee has received several updates from Deloitte, which manages the outsourced Risk Assurance function.
Deloitte attended all 26 June 2012 meetings of the Committee.
In addition, the Group has certain specialist assurance functions and this year, the Committee received a presentation from the UK Bus engineering audit function that provides assurance over engineering risks and processes in the UK Bus Division.
A presentation was received from the Group Tax Director on the Groups tax affairs, significant tax accounting judgements and tax risks.
Similarly, the Group Treasury team presented on the Groups treasury affairs and management of treasury risks.
At each meeting, the Committee considered the principal judgemental accounting issues affecting the Group based on reports from both the Groups management and the external auditors.
The external auditors attended all meetings of the Committee and presented on its audit plans and findings, amongst other matters.
The Committee has considered and made changes to the Groups announcements of its interim and preliminary financial results, as well as its Annual Report.
The Committee also reviewed the evidence that supported the conclusion that the Group remained a going concern.
All known instances of fraud, theft or similar irregularities affecting the Group were reported to and considered by the Committee, although there were no such matters that were sufficiently material to merit disclosure in the Annual Report.
The Committee also received and considered updates on litigation involving the Group, although again there were no such matters that were sufficiently material to merit separate disclosure in the Annual Report.
As part of the Committees ongoing training and development, both management and the external auditors updated the Committee on developments in accounting standards, auditing standards, guidance for audit committees, legislation affecting the Group more generally and other relevant regulatory developments and guidance.
