Corporate governance report 5.1 Introduction Does the director effectively contribute to constructive debate by the Board and its Committees?
The Stagecoach Board is accountable to shareholders for the Groups Is the director willing to defend his or her own beliefs and viewpoints for activities and is responsible for the effectiveness of corporate governance the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
This section of the report sets out Stagecoach Groups corporate governance arrangements.
It also includes the disclosures Does the director have a sufficiently sound and detailed knowledge of the recommended by the Financial Reporting Council FRC UK Corporate Groups business that enables him or her to effectively question strategy Governance Code the Code, and describes how the principles of good and executive managements running of the business?
corporate governance that are set out in the Code have been applied.
In line Ewan Brown, one of the five independent non-executive directors, has served with best practice, separate reports are provided from each of the Audit on the Board since 1988 and is a non-executive director of Noble Grossart, Committee, Nomination Committee, Health, Safety and Environmental which is an advisor to the Company.
The Company recognises and Committee and Remuneration Committee.
understands investor concerns over longer-serving non-executive directors The Stagecoach Board is committed to maintaining a corporate governance but nevertheless continues to regard Ewan Brown as independent.
Ewan structure appropriate to the Group and its strategy.
Good corporate Browns long association with the Group enables him to provide a robust and governance remains central to delivering the Groups objectives.
As explained effective challenge to management because of the sound and detailed later in this report, we have again reviewed the effectiveness of the Board and knowledge of the Groups business that he has developed.
The Board believes its Committees and we consider the corporate governance structure to that Ewan Browns length of service, when taken in the context of the Board remain appropriate for the Group.
as a whole, enhances his effectiveness as a non-executive director and that he remains independent in character and judgement.
Five of the eight members 5.2 Compliance with the Code of the Board, excluding the Chairman, are considered by the Board to be independent.
Even if Ewan Brown is not treated as independent: the The FRC issued the current edition of the Code in June 2010, which applies to composition of the Board complies with the recommendations of the Code.
accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010 and is available on the FRCs website at http: www.
uk Our-Work Codes-Standards In recognition of the factors suggested by the Code for determining Corporate-governance.
The Directors believe that throughout the year independence, Ewan Brown does not serve on the Remuneration Committee ended 30 April 2012 the Group complied with all of the recommendations of or the Audit Committee.
Following the introduction of the Code, all directors the Code.
The Group also complies with the corporate governance stood for election or re-election at the 2011 Annual General Meeting and will requirements of the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules, and do so again at future Annual General Meetings.
5.3 Composition of the Board 5.4 Operation of the Board The composition of the Board, which has not changed since 1 May 2011, is as The Board is generally scheduled to meet six times each year.
Additional follows: meetings of the Board are held to consider matters arising between scheduled Board meetings, where a decision of the Board is required prior to the next Date of Independent scheduled meeting.
In addition to the formal meetings of the Board and its appointment Nonif later than Independent Executive Other Committees, the Directors are in more frequent but less formal contact with 1 May 2010 Chairman Director Director each other and with the Groups management on a range of matters.
Sir George Mathewson The Chairman ensures that meetings of the Board and shareholders are Chairman 3 properly conducted and is responsible for setting and moving forward the Boards agenda.
Leadership of the Board by the Chairman is not the same as Ewan Brown Non-Executive Director 3 the leadership required from the Group Chief Executive to turn the Boards strategic and policy decisions into actions.
The Group Chief Executive has dayHelen Mahy to-day responsibility for all business of the Group and carries out the agreed Non-Executive Director 3 strategy and policies of the Board.
The split of the Chairmans and Chief Garry Watts Executives responsibilities is in writing and has been approved by the Board.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 3 The Directors biographies appear on pages 26 and 27 of this Annual Report and illustrate the Directors range of experience, which ensures an effective Phil White Non-Executive Director 3 Board to lead and control the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors bring an independent viewpoint and create an overall balance.
Will Whitehorn Non-Executive Director 3 The Executive and Non-Executive Directors have a complementary range of experience that ensures no one director or viewpoint is dominant in the Ann Gloag Non-Executive Director 3 decision-making process.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors periodically meet without the Executive Directors being present.
In addition, Sir Brian Souter the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Chief Executive 3 Director, meet without the Chairman at least annually.
Martin Griffiths Finance Director 3 All the Directors meet regularly with other senior management and staff of the Group, have access to confidential advice from the Company Secretary and The Code suggests that independent non-executive directors should make up may take independent legal or other professional advice at the Groups expense at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman.
Throughout the period where it is considered necessary for the proper discharge of their duties as from 1 May 2011 to 30 April 2012, the Board considers that it complied with directors.
The Company Secretary, whose appointment and removal is a matter this Code requirement.
The current position is shown in the above table.
for the Board as a whole, is responsible to the Board for ensuring the Board In determining the independence of non-executive directors, the Board procedures are complied with.
In particular the Board satisfies itself on the Each director receives induction training on appointment and subsequently following questions: such training, briefings and site visits as are considered necessary to keep Does the director provide a robust and effective challenge to executive abreast of matters affecting their roles as directors.
The Chairman reviews the management?
Directors training and development needs in conjunction with the Company Is the director prepared to challenge others beliefs, assumptions and Secretary.
Training can encompass health, safety, environmental, social and viewpoints for the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
The Chairman endeavours to ensure that all the Directors page 32 | Stagecoach Group plc 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:47 Page 33 attend the Annual General Meeting, providing an opportunity for shareholders Two of the joint ventures in which the Group has an interest, Virgin Rail to meet the Directors and to address questions to them.
Group and Twin America LLC, are managed independently of the Group.
Each is headed by its own Chief Executive.
The Group has two representatives on The number of full Board meetings during the year was seven.
The full Board the Board of Virgin Rail Group and three representatives on the Board of Twin typically meets once a year at an operational location and regular America LLC.
The other trading joint venture in which the Group has an communication is maintained by the Chairman with other directors between interest, Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited, has a joint board.
The Group is meetings to ensure all directors are well informed on strategic and operational responsible for the day-to-day management of that business.
In May 2011, the Board visited the Groups North American operations.
Some of the Directors also attended health and safety meetings of operating companies during the year.
The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee 5.6 Performance evaluation visits operating locations around the Group to gain greater understanding of the how the Group addresses health, safety and environmental matters.
The Board assesses its own performance and the performance of each individual Board member: this assessment is co-ordinated and directed by the The Board has a number of matters reserved for its consideration, with Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary.
The Senior Independent principal responsibilities being to agree the overall strategy and investment Non-Executive Director co-ordinates the Boards assessment of the policy, to approve major capital expenditure, to monitor performance and risk performance of the Chairman.
As part of the assessment process, the Nonmanagement procedures of senior management, to ensure that there are Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors being present.
The proper internal controls in place and to consider major acquisitions or Non-Executive Directors also meet without the Chairman being present.
The Directors have full and timely access to information with Board Chairman obtains feedback from each individual director on the performance papers distributed in advance of meetings.
Notable matters that the Board of the Board and other Board members this involves the completion of a considered during the year ended 30 April 2012 included: questionnaire and a follow-up discussion.
In the same way, the Senior Approval of the return of cash to shareholders made in October 2011 Independent Non-Executive Director obtains feedback from each individual Consideration of invitations to tender for rail franchises director on the performance of the Chairman.
A similar process is undertaken Disposal of the Groups school bus operations in Wisconsin to assess the performance of each of the Boards committees.
From the Disposal of Stagecoach Metrolink Limited effective date of the Code, the Group plans to use external facilitation of its performance evaluation no less frequently than every third year.
Expansion of the Groups Megabus operations in North America Virgin Rail Groups bid for the new West Coast rail franchise The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and its committees.
Each director has assessed the effectiveness of the Board and The Alliance between Network Rail and South West Trains each committee of which he or she is a member.
The assessment of The planned acquisition of businesses and assets from Coach America.
effectiveness included consideration of: Group-wide strategy and succession planning The effectiveness of the formal Board and committee meetings: The Board keeps the roles and contribution made by each director under The nature and extent of the Boards interaction with the management of review and changes in responsibilities are made where necessary to improve the Group: the Boards effectiveness.
To provide a more manageable process and better control, certain of the Boards powers have been delegated to committees.
The timeliness, relevance and accuracy of the information provided to the Board and its committees: Minutes are taken of each meeting of the Board and its Committees.
Where any director has significant concerns that cannot be resolved about the The allocation of the Boards time between differing priorities including running of the Group or a proposed action, these concerns are recorded in the time spent on strategic considerations relative to other matters: and the minutes.
It is also the Groups policy that where a director resigns, the The composition of the Board and its committees.
director is asked to provide a written statement to the Chairman of any The Board has considered the results of these assessments and has concluded concerns leading to his or her resignation.
that overall the Board and its committees continue to operate in an effective and constructive manner.
5.5 Operational management of the Group The Board delegates the operational management of the Group to the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors maintain day-to-day contact and meet regularly face-toface or in video conferences with non-board senior management.
There are three principal operating divisions UK Bus: headed by a Managing Director, North America: headed by a Chief Operating Officer and UK Rail: headed by the Group Finance Director, which each comprise a varying number of autonomous business units, each headed by a chairman or managing director who is responsible for the day-to-day performance of the business unit.
Each chairman or managing director is supported by his her own management teams.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 33 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:47 Page 34 Corporate governance report 5.7 Composition of Committees The composition of the various Board Committees is summarised below: Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Number of members of Committee: 3 Number of members of Committee: 3 All members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
All members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman and designated member with recent Chairman and relevant financial experience Phil White Garry Watts Other members Other members Garry Watts Helen Mahy Will Whitehorn Phil White Nomination Committee Health, Safety and Environmental Committee Number of members of Committee: 4 Number of members of Committee: 4 All members are independent Non-Executive Directors Chairman except Sir George Mathewson who is Helen Mahy Chairman of the Company Other members Chairman Martin Griffiths Sir George Mathewson Ann Gloag Other members Phil White Ewan Brown Garry Watts Will Whitehorn 5.8 Reports from the Committees Reports from each of the Committees of the Board are set out on pages 37 to 47 of this Annual Report.
5.9 Individual director participation at meetings The following is a table of participation in full Board meetings, meetings of committees and the Annual General Meeting by director during the year ended 30 April 2012: Health, Safety PARTICIPATION Full Board Audit Remuneration and Environmental Nomination Annual General IN MEETINGS meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Meeting Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Sir George Mathewson 7 7 n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 1 1 1 Sir Brian Souter 7 7 n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 1 Martin Griffiths 7 7 n a n a n a n a 4 4 n a n a 1 1 Ewan Brown 7 7 n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 1 1 1 Ann Gloag 7 7 n a n a n a n a 4 4 n a n a 1 1 Helen Mahy 7 7 3 3 n a n a 4 4 n a n a 1 1 Garry Watts 6 7 3 3 3 3 n a n a 1 1 1 1 Phil White 7 7 3 3 3 3 4 4 n a n a 1 1 Will Whitehorn 7 7 n a n a 3 3 n a n a 1 1 1 1 page 34 | Stagecoach Group plc 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:47 Page 35 responsibility for these.
The Board believes that it is important that these 5.10 Relations with shareholders processes remain rooted throughout the business and the managing director The Board endeavours to present a balanced and understandable assessment of each operating unit is responsible for the internal control framework within of the Groups position and prospects in communications with shareholders.
The Group holds periodic meetings with representatives of major Self-assessment of risk conducted by the Directors and senior management is institutional shareholders, other fund managers and representatives of the ongoing and has been considered at several levels, with each division financial media.
The programme of investor relations includes presentations in London of the The Group Risk Assurance or internal audit function, which is outsourced to full-year and interim results and meetings with institutional investors in the UK and overseas.
Investor and analyst feedback is sought after presentations and managed by Deloitte LLP, reports to the Audit Committee and is utilised in monitoring risk management processes to determine whether internal to ensure key strategies, market trends and actions being taken are being effectively communicated and shareholder objectives are known.
Written controls are effectively designed and properly implemented.
A risk-based responses are given to letters or e-mails received from shareholders.
The approach is applied to the implementation and monitoring of controls.
The annual report is published in hard copy and on the Groups website.
monitoring process also forms the basis for maintaining the integrity and improving where possible the Groups risk management process in the context The Board receives regular updates on the views of shareholders through of the Groups overall goals.
briefings from the Chairman and the Executive Directors, reports from the Companys brokers and reports from the Companys Financial PR consultants.
The Audit Committee reviews Group Risk Assurance plans, as well as external The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to shareholders audit plans and any business improvement opportunities that are where contact through the normal channels is inappropriate, or has failed to recommended by the external auditors.
The Groups risk management process does not specifically cover joint All shareholders are welcome to attend and participate at the Annual General ventures, but the Group maintains an overview of joint ventures' business risk Meeting and any other general meetings.
The Group aims to ensure that all management processes through representation on the boards and in the case the Directors are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer of Virgin Rail Group, its audit committee.
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for representatives also meet regularly with representatives of joint ventures to shareholders to question the Chairman and other directors on a variety of ensure that they follow appropriate risk management procedures.
topics and further information is provided at the Annual General Meeting on the Groups principal business activities.
It is the Companys policy to propose a separate resolution at the Annual General Meeting for each substantially 5.12 Internal control separate issue.
Resolutions are taken on a show of hands and details of all The wider process described above and the key procedures noted below, proxy votes lodged for and against, or withheld, in respect of each resolution enable the Directors to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of are given to the meeting.
Details of the proxy votes are also published on the the system of risk management and internal control of the Group during the Groups website at year.
The key procedures, which the Directors have established, are as follows: http: www.
com scg ir shareholder agm.
The Company an annual budgeting process with periodic re-forecasting of out-turn, and its registrars have established procedures to ensure that votes cast are identifying key risks and opportunities.
All budgets are presented to a properly received and recorded.
panel consisting of executive directors and or senior managers by each business units management team, before being approved by the Board.
5.11 Risk management reporting of financial information to the Board encompassing income statement, cash flow, balance sheet and key performance indicators.
Group The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing management monitors the results throughout each financial year.
the significant risks that it faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process.
a Risk Assurance function which reviews key business processes and The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are summarised in business controls, reporting directly to the Audit Committee.
6. third party reviews commissioned periodically by the Group of areas where The Board considers acceptance of appropriate risks to be an integral part of significant inherent risks have been identified, such as health and safety, business and unacceptable levels of risk are avoided or reduced and, in some treasury management, insurance provisioning, pensions strategy and cases, transferred to third parties.
Internal controls are used to identify and competition policy.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal control, and for reviewing its a decentralised organisational structure with clearly defined limits of effectiveness.
The Groups system cannot provide absolute assurance but is responsibility and authority to promote effective and efficient operations.
designed to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that any control over the activities of joint ventures through Stagecoach significant risks or problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with representation on the boards of the entities together with regular contact appropriately.
The Group has established an ongoing process of risk review and between Stagecoach management and the management of the relevant certification by the business heads of each operating unit.
Certain of the Groups businesses are subject to significant risk.
Each identified a performance management appraisal system, which covers the Groups business risk is assessed for its probability of occurrence and its potential senior management based on agreed financial and other performance severity of occurrence.
Where necessary, the Board considers whether it is objectives, many of which incorporate managing risk.
appropriate to accept certain risks that cannot be fully controlled or mitigated significant emphasis on cash flow management.
Bank balances are by the Group.
reviewed on a daily basis and cash flows are compared to budget on a fourThe Groups risk management process was embedded throughout the weekly basis.
businesses for the whole of the financial year ended 30 April 2012 and up to reporting to the Board and or its Committees on specific matters including the date of the approval of this report.
The Board has carried out a review of updated key risks, taxation, pensions, insurance, treasury management, the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control environment and such reviews are supported on an ongoing basis by the work foreign exchange, interest and commodity exposures.
The Board regulates treasury management policies and procedures.
The Board is satisfied that processes are in place to ensure that risks are appropriately managed.
defined capital expenditure and other investment approval procedures, The Board has designated specific individuals to oversee the internal control including due diligence requirements where material businesses are being and risk management processes, while recognising that it retains ultimate acquired or divested.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 35 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:47 Page 36 Corporate governance report each operating unit maintains internal controls and procedures 5.14 Pension schemes appropriate to the business.
A written certificate is provided at least The assets of the Groups pension schemes are held under trust, separate annually by the management of each business confirming that they have from the assets of the Group and are invested with a number of independent reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the fund managers.
There are ten trustees for the principal UK scheme of whom year.
three are employee representatives nominated by the members on a regional a competition compliance programme, which the Board has approved and basis and two are pensioner trustees.
The chairman of the trustees of the which is subject to regular monitoring.
principal UK scheme is a professional trustee who served for eight years as a fund member elected representative on the National Association of Pension an anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy with training and compliance Funds investment council.
He also sits independently as an elected monitoring.
representative of all railway employers on the board of the Railways Pension Any control weaknesses that these procedures identify are monitored and Scheme, of which he is the Trustee Chairman of the Railways Pension Scheme addressed in the normal course of business.
None of the weaknesses trustees.
The other trustees of the principal UK scheme include senior Group identified in the year to 30 April 2012 have resulted in any material losses, and UK Bus executives.
contingencies or uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Groups A Pensions Oversight Committee was in operation throughout the year.
This process is considered to be an integral part of the Committee is chaired by a non-executive director, Ewan Brown, and also maintenance and improvement of our risk management procedures.
comprises one executive director and other members of senior management.
The Committee operates at a strategic level and its remit covers all matters 5.13 Process for preparing consolidated financial affecting the Groups pension schemes from the perspective of the Groups statements shareholders and other stakeholders, and it will consider, develop and The Group has established internal control and risk management systems in propose recommendations to the Board in respect of such issues as may arise.
The Committee reviews pension scheme funding, investment strategy, relation to the process for preparing consolidated financial statements.
The key features of these internal control and risk management systems are: risk management, internal controls surrounding pension matters and the related administration for all of the employee pension schemes of the Group.
The Risk Assurance function and management conducts various checks on internal financial controls periodically.
Management regularly monitors and considers developments in By order of the Board accounting regulations and best practice in financial reporting, and where appropriate, reflects developments in the consolidated financial statements.
Appropriate briefings and or training are provided to key finance personnel on relevant developments in accounting and financial reporting.
The Audit Committee is also kept appraised of such Ross Paterson developments.
Company Secretary A written certificate is provided annually by the management of each 26 June 2012 business unit confirming that the internal financial controls have been reviewed and highlighting any departures from the controls system that the Group has determined to be appropriate practice.
The financial statements of each business unit are subject to review by a local finance manager prior to being submitted to the Group Finance function.
The financial statements of each business unit are subject to review by the Group Finance function for unusual items, unexplained trends and completeness.
Any unexplained items are referred back to local management to explain.
The Group Finance function compares the financial statements of each business unit to the management accounts received during the year and obtains explanations for any material differences.
The Groups consolidation, which consolidates the results of each business unit and makes appropriate adjustments, is subject to various levels of review by the Group Finance function.
The draft consolidated financial statements are reviewed by an individual independent from those individuals who were responsible for preparing the financial statements.
The review includes checking internal consistency, consistency with other statements, consistency with internal accounting records and arithmetical accuracy.
The Audit Committee and the Board review the draft consolidated financial statements.
The Audit Committee receives reports from management and the external auditors on significant judgements, changes in accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and other pertinent matters relating to the consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements of all material business units are subject to external audit.
The Group uses the same firm of auditors to audit all Group companies.
The Group auditors review the audit work papers for material joint ventures that are audited by a different firm of auditors.
