Nomination Committee report 7.1 Composition of the Nomination 7.4 Succession Planning Arrangements Committee The Board and the Nomination Committee recognise the importance of succession planning to ensure that the Group continues to prosper in the The membership of the Nomination Committee is summarised in section 5.7. longer term.
The Group operates a decentralised organisational structure with The Committee also includes, by invitation, the other Non-Executive clearly defined limits of responsibility and authority, and oversight from head Directors, as necessary.
This structure provides the opportunity for managers to develop in some of the Groups smaller business units before progressing to wider and 7.2 Operation of the Nomination Committee more responsible roles.
The Group has a history of developing good managers who have progressed to take on senior positions within the Group.
The Group The Nomination Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, and where appropriate suggesting operates a graduate recruitment programme, and some of the graduates recruited have gone on to become managing directors of individual business new appointments.
Based on its assessment, the Committee will prepare a description of the role and the required attributes for each particular units, both in the UK and North America.
The description will include a job specification, the estimate of The Nomination Committee is mindful of the need to ensure appropriate the time commitment expected, and the Groups policy on directors having succession arrangements are in place for the Directors.
The Nomination other significant commitments.
Potential candidates will be asked to disclose Committee and the Board seeks to identify new directors and senior managers their other commitments and confirm that they will have sufficient time to to ensure succession of directors is conducted in a managed way, without meet what is expected of them.
The Directors are also required to report any significant disruption to the ongoing business of the Group.
significant changes in their other commitments as they arise.
The Committee The Committee recognises that as co-founder of the Company, the Chief will identify suitable candidates and make proposals for each appointment, Executive has had a long and integral association with the Company.
This close although final appointments are the responsibility of the Board as a whole.
association of Chief Executive and Company brings different challenges in The appointments process takes account of the benefits of diversity of the planning for the succession of the Chief Executive.
Whilst the Committee Board, including gender diversity and in identifying suitable candidates the recognises that the Chief Executive remains committed to his role for the Committee will consider candidates from a range of backgrounds.
foreseeable future, it nevertheless reviews the succession plans for the Chief Potential new non-executive directors are chosen based on a shortlist Executive and other executive management.
Given the importance of compiled by the Nomination Committee taking account of known candidates succession planning, the views of all directors are considered and not just the and candidates suggested by the Groups advisors.
For example, the selection views of the members of the Committee.
of the directors appointed to the Board over the last two years were made following a recruitment process that involved the use of external recruitment consultants and the consideration of a number of candidates.
Non-executive directors receive a letter of appointment.
For any new appointments, the letter of appointment sets out the expected time commitment.
Sir George Mathewson No Director of the Company is currently a chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available on the Groups website at 26 June 2012 http: www.
com media Files S StagecoachGroup Attachments about nom.
pdf 7.3 Board diversity The Company believes strongly that its Board benefits from comprising talented people with a range of perspectives and from differing backgrounds and the terms of reference of the Committee reflect this in the criteria for identifying suitable candidates for nomination to the Board.
The Committee notes that the Davies Review recommended that Chairmen of FTSE 350 companies should set out the percentage of women they aim to have on their boards by 2013 and 2015.
The Company was co-founded by Ann Gloag and throughout its life as a listed company it has had at least one woman on its Board and for all of the last ten years, at least two.
There are currently nine directors of the Company.
Accordingly, women represent 22% of the Board, a percentage which Stagecoach aspires to at least maintain in the future.
This aspiration forms part of the criteria for the selection of suitable candidates for the Board by the Committee.
In addition to board diversity, the Company believes in promoting diversity at all levels of the organisation.
Gender data has been collated across the Groups business for the workforce as a whole and at senior management level, which is currently defined as those who receive awards under the Groups 2005 Executive Participation Plan.
The latest data showed the following: Population % male % female Board 77.8% 22.2% Senior management 88.2% 11.8% Whole workforce 84.4% 15.6% Stagecoach Group plc | page 39
