Corporate Governance Report Year Ended 29 February 2012 Above all other objectives, the Board is there to ensure that the Group Be available to shareholders if they have concerns which provides long term and sustainable growth for its shareholders.
cannot be dealt with by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer Good corporate governance assists in the promotion of this growth by ensuring that there is effective authority and accountability Attend institutional and analyst briefings, in addition to the throughout the organisation.
The base that the Group uses for this Chief Executive Officer and his team is the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 Code issued by Meet with the Non-Executive members of the Board at least the Financial Reporting Council and appended to the Listing Rules once a year without the presence of the Chairman or the and which sets out best practice of how a company should be run.
Executive Directors in order to review the Chairmans The purpose of this report is to show how the Group complies with performance in his role and also the Chairmans relationship the Code and, on the rare occasions where it does not, explain the with the Chief Executive Officer reason for non-compliance.
Company Secretary and Independent Advice The Directors believe that the Group has complied throughout the period with the code provisions set out in the 2010 Code.
The Company Secretarys role is to act as advisor to the Board on matters relating to Corporate Governance and, in conjunction Printed copies of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance with the Chairman, to ensure good information flows between and the UK Corporate Governance Code applicable for financial the Board, its various committees, the Non-Executive and Executive years commencing on or after 29 June 2010 can be obtained Directors and Senior members of the Executive Team.
free of charge from the Financial Reporting Council FRC Publications by emailing customerservices@cch.
co. uk, by The Non-Executive Directors have access to his advice and telephoning 44 0 208 247 1264 or online at frcpublications.
services in addition to independent, professional advice if required at the Groups expense.
The Board - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Matters reserved for the Board and how it operates The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are held by different individuals in order to provide segregation of roles.
In accordance with the Code, the Board has agreed a formal schedule of matters requiring its decision.
This schedule is available The Chairmans role is to manage the Board of Directors, ensure on the Groups website.
In summary, those matters reserved to the that the Non-Executives are committed to their positions and are Board include: able to contribute to the management of the Group as a whole.
Strategy of the Group The Chief Executive Officers role is to implement strategy laid down by the Board of Directors and to manage the Group and Being alert to market and other prevalent conditions and their its operations.
The Board of Directors is collectively responsible potential consequence on the Group and the environment in for the success of the Group.
which it operates Continuing review of Group performance against its forecasts Board Balance and Independence Consideration and approval of financial results, dividend policy The Board now consists of eight individuals, six of whom including and payments the Chairman are independent Non-Executive Directors and two are Capital structure and any debt funding of the Group Executive Directors.
Over the past year this Board has had the Approval of financial and other commitments above those appropriate balance and skill set to advise on the Groups growth.
delegated to the Executive It was recognised that the Board would benefit from Non-Executive Monitoring internal control and risk management Directors who have more operational and industry specific knowledge.
On 7 March 2011, William Stobart and David Irlam Appointment of the Executive Directors on the recommendation stepped down as Executive Directors.
William Stobart has maintained of the Nomination Committee a key management role but David Irlam has left the business.
On the The Board has met for eight scheduled meetings during the course same date Nick Watts and Daniel Dayan stepped down as Nonof the 12 months under review and attendance at such Board Executive Directors.
On 23 May 2011 Paul Orchard-Lisle, Alan Kelsey Meetings by individual Directors is set out below.
There were five and David Beever were appointed as Non-Executive Directors.
additional meetings to discuss the share placing in May 2011 and Both the Executive and NonExecutive Directors offer themselves the potential acquisition of WADI Properties Limited which was for re-election on an annual basis.
Jesper Kjaedegaard will not be seeking re-election to the board at The agenda and relevant briefing papers are distributed by the the AGM in June.
The Board thanks him warmly for his contribution company secretary on a timely basis, usually a week in advance of both to the Board and the business over a number of years.
In addition, the Board has met with members of the senior Senior Independent Director management team on 12 October 2011 to discuss the Groups vision Alan Kelsey is the Senior Independent Director of the Group.
Nick and strategy and review business planning and risk mechanisms.
Watts was the Senior Independent Director until the date of his resignation.
His role is to: Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 47 Director No.
meetings instead of the Chairman.
When the Committee has found a suitable attended eligible to attend candidate, the Chairman of the Committee will make the proposal to the whole Board and the appointment is the responsibility of the Rodney Baker-Bates 13 13 whole Board following recommendation from the Committee.
Andrew Tinkler 1012 Information, Induction and Professional Development Ben Whawell 12 13 The Chairman is responsible for ensuring all Directors receive Michael Kayser 12 13 comprehensive information on a regular basis to enable them to Jesper Kjaedegaard 1213 perform their duties properly.
New Directors receive appropriate induction on joining the Board, William Stobart resigned 07 March 2011 - - typically including meeting members of the senior management David Irlam resigned 07 March 2011 - - team and visits to operational sites.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to Nick Watts resigned 07 March 2011 - - the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
Daniel Dayan resigned 07 March 2011 - - Board and Governance Evaluation David Beever appointed 23 May 2011 6 9 As guiding principles, the Board and Company Secretarial team Alan Kelsey appointed 23 May 2011 8 9 set out to conduct the Stobart Group 2011 12 internal Board and Paul Orchard-Lisle appointed 23 May 2011 7 9 Governance evaluation as one driven by the values of thorough and rigorous process, the principle of 360 degree evaluation and a desire to add value to this process.
In addition, at the outset of Board meetings are an opportunity, for example, for the Nonthis process, the Board stated their commitment to delivering Executive Directors to challenge performance of the various improved performance as a result of any findings.
Divisions against targets and KPIs set, to review transactions The evaluation engaged with Non-Executive Directors, Executive which have taken place since the preceding meeting and to Directors, Board committee members, stakeholders, investors and receive reports from the Boards committees.
The process proposed by the Remuneration Committee Board proceedings are recorded in comprehensive minutes and endorsed by the Board involved a series of questionnaires, which permit any Director to record their views if they have any interviews and analysis and conclusions have been developed into concerns which the Board cannot satisfactorily resolve.
No such an Action Plan which is now in process of approval and concerns were voiced during this period.
The evaluation process commenced in September 2011 and is reporting back to the Board in May 2012.
Appointments to the Board During 2012 13 an independent external review of the Board will The Board has established a Nomination Committee which is be conducted.
required to meet at least once a year or more often, if so required, The Board will be conducting an independent external audit in in order to make recommendations to the Board on the 2012 13.
The Chief Executive Officer conducts annual appraisals with composition, balance and membership of the Board.
Executive Directors and has regular one-to-one discussions about Stobart Group Board welcomed Lord Davies report Women on their performance with them, as does the Chairman with the Chief Boards' February 2011 and noted that whilst, as a Board, they would Executive Officer.
The Board undertakes a regular cycle of training on continue to appoint on merit, they recognised the real importance Corporate Governance Matters.
and significance of taking gender and broader issues of diversity into account in any decision making procedures and committed to Corporate Responsibility continuing to do so.
The Board also committed to ensuring that the findings of Lord Davies' report are fed into ongoing succession Chief Financial Officer, Ben Whawell takes Board level responsibility planning across the Group's operations and at all levels of seniority.
for developing and implementing the Groups policy and approach for corporate responsibility.
The Nomination Committee This includes its arrangements for matters relating to people, society and the environment.
The Nomination Committee met once during the year.
The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments The Audit Committee and makes recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and composition of the Board and succession planning for The Audit Committee is to establish formal and transparent Directors and Senior Executives.
arrangements for considering how to apply the financial reporting The Committees members are the Non-Executive Directors.
For new and internal control principles and to maintain an appropriate potential Non-Executive Board members, the Nomination Committee relationship with the external auditors.
meets and agrees to appoint an external consultant to assist with The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the financial the selection of a shortlist of potential Non-Executive Directors.
statements, internal financial controls and internal audit functions.
Once this shortlist is presented, the Nomination Committee meets The Committee also makes recommendations to the Board in and undertakes a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for relation to the appointment of the Groups external auditors.
the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
The objectivity and independence of the auditors is reviewed and Careful consideration is given by the Nomination Committee to considered to be safeguarded.
The non-audit fees paid to the ensure that any appointees to the Board have enough time auditors are expected to be less than the Group audit fees.
available to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, Excluded work includes lead advisory mergers and acquisitions knowledge and experience on the Board is maintained.
When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director will Chair the Committee Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 48 Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Membership Twice a year general presentations are given to analysts and investors covering the annual and half year results.
In addition The Audit Committee is chaired by Michael Kayser and its other members of the Board meet with institutional investors and members are David Beever and Alan Kelsey, all of whom are fully analysts on a periodic basis.
Rodney Baker-Bates was a The Company Secretary generally deals with enquiries from member of the Audit Committee until 23 May 2011.
com Secretary acts as its secretary.
contains published information and press releases.
Michael Kayser is considered by the Board and Nomination Committee to hold the requisite recent and relevant financial experience.
Whistleblowing Policy The quorum for an Audit Committee meeting is any two members.
The Board has prepared and approved a whistleblowing policy Only members of the Audit Committee and the Company which has been circulated within the Group.
This policy includes Secretary are permitted to attend meetings.
However, the Chief arrangements for employees to raise concerns about possible Financial Officer and the Groups external auditors will normally improprieties in financial or other matters.
Arrangements include be invited to attend meetings.
independent investigation of such matters and appropriate At least once a year, the Audit Committee will meet with the external follow-up action.
auditors without the Chief Financial Officer or any other Executive Directors present.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Directors responsibilities in connection with the financial Attendance at Audit Committee meetings statements are set out in the Directors Report on page 44.
The The terms of reference of the Audit Committee from 1 March Board, through the Audit Committee, is responsible for the Groups 2008 which are available on the Groups website require it to system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
meet at least three times per year.
During the period under review, The Board considers risk assessment, implementation of the Audit Committee met on six occasions, with attendance as set mitigating actions and internal control to be fundamental to out in the table below: achieving the Groups strategy.
Internal control gives the Board reasonable but not absolute assurance.
The Board has an Number of Audit Committee meetings in the period 6 ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group and maintains a risk register.
meetings The system of internal control is based upon: attended eligible to attend The Boards overall responsibility Michael Kayser 6 6 The Groups organisational structure, with established lines of Rodney Baker-Bates 2 2 accountability, as well as clearly defined levels of authority David Beever 4 4 Regular, and at least annual, review by the Board and the Audit Alan Kelsey 3 4 Committee Compliance with the Turnbull Guidance 2005 A summary of issues dealt with by the Audit Committee during the Support by company policies in other areas such as finance year is set out below: Management rather than elimination of the risk of failure to Findings from the external audit for the year ended 28 February 2011 achieve strategic objectives.
It can also only provide reasonable Findings from the external review of the interims by the Auditors and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss Presentation by the Auditors of the planning documents in respect of the Audit for the year ended 29 February 2012 The Audit Committee and the Board have reviewed the Review of the internal audit procedures and consideration of their effectiveness of internal control including financial, operational adequacy and compliance controls together with risk management in accordance with the Code over the period of this report, and to Review of related party transactions the date of its publication and confirm that no significant failings Rotation of the audit partner responsible for the audit or weaknesses have been identified.
If they had been, the Board Review of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee confirms that the necessary actions would have been taken to Review of the feedback of external shareholder representatives remedy them.
regarding the disclosures in the Annual Report 2011 The Audit Committee reviews the independence of the auditors Approval of new members to the Audit Committee at the interims and at year end.
The Audit Committee has a policy Considered and approved the external auditors independence of reviewing the status of the auditors with a view to rotation after Approval of other non-audit services by the external auditor five years and each year thereafter.
The Group has a business systems internal audit function which Shareholder Relations reviews performance against the agreed policies and procedures.
The Company is committed to maintaining good communications The Board has considered extending this to all aspects of financial controls and procedures and concluded that it is not necessary.
Senior Executives, including the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have dialogue with Michael Kayser I Chairman of the Audit Committee individual institutional shareholders in order to develop an understanding of their views which are periodically fed back to the Board.
