Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance x Approval of any significant changes in accounting policies or practices: The Board is committed to the highest standards of Corporate Governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
x Approval of contracts with annual revenue in excess of 5 million: The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good x Approval of any investment or disposal of the share capital of another governance and this report together with the Directors Remuneration company greater than 5% of the Companys share capital: report set out on pages 42 to 44 describe how the Board has applied the main principles of good governance set out in the Code during the year x Approval of the acquisition of assets with a consideration in excess under review.
of 10 million, and any disposal of assets greater than 2.5 million: The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has been in x Approval of any capital expenditure in excess of 10 million: compliance with the conditions of the Code up to the date of this report x Major changes in the rules of the Company pension schemes, except where any non-compliance is disclosed and explained.
or changes of trustees or fund management arrangements: The following statements set out the principles and methods to which x Approval of changes to the employee share and other incentive they adhere.
schemes and the allocation of executive share options: The statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual x All Stock Exchange related issues including approval of Report and the financial statements is set out in the Directors report communications to the Stock Exchange: on page 32. x Establishing Board membership and powers including the The Board appointment and removal of Board members and the Group As at 1 April 2012, and as at the date of this report, the Board of Company Secretary: Directors was made up of six members, comprising a non-executive Chairman, three further non-executive Directors and two executive x Establishing Terms of Reference and membership of the Directors.
R E Lerwill will retire from the Board and step down as Board committees: Chairman with effect from 7 June 2012.
D K Nichol, senior independent x Approval of all Related Party Transactions: Director, will take up the role as Chairman at that time.
Notwithstanding that D K Nichol has been a non-executive Director since November x Setting the remuneration of the auditors and making 2002, the Board believes D K Nichol is independent for the purposes recommendations for the appointment or removal of auditors: of the Code and is a factor which came out strongly during the recent x Approving any major changes in policy with respect to risks covered Board evaluation exercise.
He brings to the Board significant experience by insurance: of the wider health sector and by his conduct has displayed the highest Corporate Governance standards.
Finally, the Board believes that x Approving all treasury matters including the setting of policies to enter D K Nichol will play a pivotal role in the development and succession into contracts that are not in the ordinary course of business and planning in respect of the Board, particularly given the relatively recent authorising bank facilities including bank borrowing, other loans and appointments to the Board.
internal rate swaps, and approval of all foreign currency transactions in excess of 5 million: Biographical details of the Directors currently in office are shown on page 30.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and the x Overseeing the Groups main controls and their effectiveness: remuneration of both executive and non-executive Directors is detailed in x Other matters including health and safety and risk management.
the Remuneration report on page 40.
The Board sets aside at least two consecutive days each year to conduct The procedure for appointing Directors is detailed in the Nomination a review of its strategy with the SEB and other senior executives in Committee section below.
attendance for certain sessions as appropriate.
The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc basis Directors receive papers several days in advance of Board meetings as required.
The Board met 16 times during the year, and attendance by means of an electronic Board pad facility, which provides greater for each is set out on page 38. flexibility for the Directors to access papers and also have access to The Boards primary role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and the advice and services of the Companys advisers.
to review the overall strategic development of the Group as a whole.
The Board has established a procedure for Directors, if deemed In addition, the Board sets the Groups values and standards and necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys ensures that it acts ethically and that its obligations to its shareholders expense in the furtherance of their duties.
This is in addition to the are understood and met.
access that every Director has to the Group Company Secretary.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, which it reviews and agrees annually, but also delegates specific responsibilities to a senior committee, the Senior Executive Board SEB and certain Board committees.
Specific responsibilities reserved for the Board include: x Setting and amending the Groups overall business strategy, strategic business plan and the annual operating budget: x Approval of the Annual Report & Financial Statements, interim dividends and recommendation of the final dividend: x Approval of any changes to the Companys capital structure including the raising of additional capital and the purchase of the Companys shares: Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 35 Governance Corporate Governance continued The Company Secretary is charged with ensuring that the Board The formal Terms of Reference for the main Board committees procedures are followed and that good corporate governance and approved by the Board and complying with the Code, to assist in the compliance is implemented throughout the Group.
Together with the discharge of its duties, are available from the Company Secretary and Group Chief Executive and the Group Company Secretary, the Chairman can also be found on the Companys website at ensures that the Board is kept properly informed and consulted on all www.
The Terms of Reference of the main Board issues reserved for it.
committees are reviewed annually and updated where necessary.
The Terms of Reference for the Audit Committee and the Remuneration The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and Committee have both been updated where required during the course clearly defined with the division of responsibilities set out in writing of the year.
and approved by the Board.
The Chairmans principal responsibilities are to chair the Board and shareholder meetings and to ensure the Board committees effective running of the Board.
The Group Chief Executives principal Senior Executive Board responsibility is leading the SEB in the day-to-day running of the Groups The SEB is the key management committee and comprises the Group business.
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive meet regularly Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, the Group Company Secretary, between meetings.
the Group Commercial Director and the CEOs of each of the four In accordance with best practice the Chairman addresses the geographic regions of the Group and meets regularly and at developmental needs of the Board as a whole, with a view to developing least monthly.
its effectiveness as a team and ensures that each Director refreshes The SEB is primarily responsible for: and updates his or her individual skills, knowledge and expertise.
x The management of all the Groups businesses: During the year, the Board conducted a detailed evaluation of its own performance and that of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration x Delivering the strategy and the agreed business plans and budgets Committees by means of a written questionnaire to ensure that they which have been signed off by the Board: continue to be effective and that each of the Directors demonstrates x Implementing Group policy: commitment to his or her respective role and has sufficient time to meet his or her commitment to the Company.
The evaluation focused on x Making key commercial decisions within the framework of the agreed several areas including Board structure, meeting administration, business plan and strategy: meetings and their content, strategy, Board committees, x Monitoring all risks operational, financial and reputational : communication and information, and governance.
The results of the evaluation were considered and discussed by the Board.
Performance x Reviewing and maintaining the effectiveness of the Groups system evaluations, including skills brought to the Board and the contributions of internal control on a day-to-day basis: and each Director made to it, were carried out for each Director.
x Managing the business in a manner appropriate for a FTSE 250 The non-executive Directors also held formal meetings to consider the company.
Remuneration Committee Meetings between the non-executive Directors both with and without the At the date of this report, the Remuneration Committee comprises presence of the Group Chief Executive, take place regularly.
The Board C F Baroudel Chairman and the three non-executive Directors, has arranged to hold Board meetings at Group business locations to R E Lerwill, D K Nichol and E A Hewitt, all of whom were independent, help all Board members gain a deeper understanding of the business.
subject to the comments above in respect of the independence of This also provides senior managers from across the Group with the D K Nichol in accordance with the definition set out in the Code.
opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the Directors on C F Baroudel has chaired the Remuneration Committee since more informal occasions.
The non-executive Directors are also invited to 25 January 2012.
Prior to that date it was chaired by D K Nichol.
attend the Groups Leadership Conference, which is held annually.
The Committee met six times during the year and Directors attendance Succession planning is a matter for the whole Board rather than for a for each meeting is shown in the table on page 38.
The Chairman of the committee.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that one Remuneration Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to third of the Directors will seek re-election at the AGM every three years.
respond to any questions that might be raised on the Committees However, in accordance with the Code, all Directors submit themselves activities.
for annual re-election by shareholders.
New Directors may be appointed The Remuneration Committee has the following key duties: by the Board, but are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment.
x Reviewing and making recommendations on the Companys framework of executive remuneration and cost including all Following their appointment, a formal comprehensive and tailored emoluments, pension entitlements and other benefits of the induction is given to all Directors, including visits to key locations executive Directors and as appropriate other senior executives.
within the Group and meetings with members of the SEB and other This includes agreeing the level of cash bonuses that are paid: key executives.
The induction also covers a review of the Group Governance policies, structures and business, including the details x Determining, on behalf of the Board, the executive Directors of the risks and operating issues facing the Group.
remuneration by reference to individual performance and market data: Although the non-executive Directors are not formally required to meet the shareholders of the Company, their attendance at presentations of x Setting and confirming the rewards under the Groups Long Term the annual and interim results is encouraged.
Incentive Plan LTIP and the LTIP Co-invest plan: and x Reviewing the operation of executive share option schemes and the granting of such options.
36 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Audit Committee The Audit Committee has the following key duties: At the date of this report the Audit Committee comprised E A Hewitt x To review the annual financial statements and interim reports prior to Chairman and also the two non-executive Directors D K Nichol and approval, focusing on changes in accounting policies and practices, C F Baroudel who, subject to the comments above in respect of the major judgemental areas, significant audit adjustments, going concern independence of D K Nichol, are independent in accordance with and compliance with accounting standards, Stock Exchange and the definition set out in the Code.
legal requirements: Following the appointment of E A Hewitt to the Board as a non-executive x To monitor the Groups systems of internal control: Director, she was also appointed to the Audit Committee and was x To monitor the effectiveness of the external audit process: appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee on 9 November 2011.
Prior to that date the Committee was chaired by R E Lerwill.
The Board x Litigation and contingent liabilities: considers that E A Hewitt is suitably qualified to chair the Committee in x Tax matters including compliance with statutory tax accordance with the requirements of the Code.
reporting obligations: Each member of the Committee brings relevant financial experience x To consider the appointment of the auditors and their remuneration from senior executive levels.
The expertise and the experience of the including allocation of non-audit fees to ensure that their members of the Committee are summarised on page 30. independency and objectivity is maintained: Audit Committee members are expected to have an understanding of x To meet with the auditors to discuss the scope of the audit issues the principles of, and developments in, financial reporting, including the arising from their work and any matters the auditors wish to raise: and applicable accounting standards and statements of recommended practice, key aspects of the Companys policies, finance, internal control x To review the Groups corporate review procedures and any statement mechanisms and matters that require the use of judgement in the on internal controls prior to endorsement by the Board.
presentation of accounts as well as the role of the external auditors.
In addition, the Audit Committee during the year: The Committee met three times during the year and the Directors x Reviewed the Committees Terms of Reference: attendances for each meeting is shown in the table on page 38.
Meeting agendas are linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
x Reviewed the Committees effectiveness: Executive Directors are invited to attend meetings and provide reports x Reviewed tax policy: and as and when considered appropriate.
The Committee meets with external auditors without management present at least once during x Received and considered reports from the risk management function.
The Committee has direct access to the Groups auditors The Company has reviewed and updated its policies in light of the and liaises with executive management to review the effectiveness enactment of the Bribery Act 2010 which came into force on 1 July of internal controls.
The Company remains committed to the highest standards of KPMG Audit plc were appointed as Auditors to the Company in 2006, business conduct and insists all its employees act accordingly.
and are reappointed annually by shareholders.
To ensure objectivity, The Company has reviewed and updated its whistle blowing policy and the key members of the audit team rotate off the Companys audit.
During policy is available on the Companys website at www.
the course of the year KPMG changed their Lead Engagement Partner in accordance with applicable UK rules.
The Lead Engagement Partner Nomination Committee changed following the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
During the year, The Nomination Committee meets when required and at the date of this the Committee reviewed KPMG Audit plcs fees, effectiveness and report comprised R E Lerwill Chairman and also the non-executive whether the agreed audit plan had been fulfilled and the reasons for any Directors D K Nichol, E A Hewitt and C F Baroudel.
With effect from variation from the plan.
The Committee also considered its robustness 7 June 2012, D K Nichol, senior independent Director, will take up the and the degree to which KPMG Audit plc was able to assess key role of Chairman of the Committee.
Only members of the Committee accounting and audit judgements and the content of the management are entitled to be present at meetings but others may be invited letter.
The Committee concluded that the audit was effective and that the by the Committee to attend if appropriate.
relationship and effectiveness of the external Auditor be kept under review.
KPMG Audit plc also audits the subsidiaries of the Group.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for considering all potential appointments to the Board and for making suitable proposals to the The total fees paid to KPMG Audit plc in the year ended 1 April 2012 Board in relation to potential appointments.
It meets as and when Board were 425,000 2011: 438,000 of which 58,000 related to non-audit appointments or other senior positions within the Group are made.
The Board has agreed formal, rigorous and transparent procedures The Committee has developed and implemented a policy on the to be followed by the Committee in making its recommendations supply of non-audit services by the external auditors to ensure their and appointments to the Board.
The Committee has access to such continued objectivity and independence.
The Committee is satisfied information and advice both within the Group and externally, at the that the provision by KPMG Audit plc of non-audit services does not cost of the Company, as it considers necessary.
This may include the impair their independence or objectivity.
The Committee has approved appointment of external executive search consultants where considered the range of services that may be provided by KPMG Audit plc.
The Committee met twice during the year.
These include transaction due diligence and accountancy assistance on projects.
Subject to approved authorisation limits, the services require For the appointment of E A Hewitt as non-executive Director prior authority from either the Group Finance Director, the Chairman on 1 September 2011, the Company engaged a firm of external of the Audit Committee or the full Audit Committee.
The Chairman of search consultants to handle the search and recruitment process.
the Audit Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond The Nomination Committee was fully involved with both the recruitment to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the and assessment of potential candidates.
A shortlist of candidates was Committees activities.
put through a rigorous assessment process and final candidates were interviewed by the whole Nomination Committee.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 37 Governance Corporate Governance continued The Nomination Committee reviews the senior leadership needs of Assessment of business risk the Group to enable it to compete effectively in the market place.
A system of business risk identification, assessment and evaluation The Nomination Committee also advises the Board on succession has been in place during the year within the management process planning for executive Board appointments although the Board is itself throughout the Group, through a formal risk management framework responsible for succession generally.
led by the Group Director of Risk Management.
This is explained in the reports of Principal Risks and Uncertainties and Corporate and Social The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to all Responsibility on pages 23 and 25 respectively.
The Board regularly Board Committees.
Directors attendance record Control environment The attendance of Directors at relevant meetings of the Board and its The Groups operating procedures include a comprehensive system for Committees was as follows: reporting financial and non-financial information to the Board including: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee x The definition of authorisation limits, both financial and otherwise.
Detailed appraisal documents are produced for any major Total number of meetings 16 3 6 2 capital projects: i R E Lerwill 15 of 16 2 of 2 5 of 6 1 of 2 x A review of annual budgets and forecasts against budgets that are R M Steeves 16 of 16 produced at least twice a year: G Hill 16 of 16 x A review of monthly management accounts at Group and operational D K Nichol 14 of 16 3 of 3 6 of 6 2 of 2 level, including financial performance, together with balance sheet C F Baroudel 16 of 16 3 of 3 6 of 6 2 of 2 and cash flow analysis, which are reported against budget, forecasts ii E A Hewitt 9 of 10 2 of 2 2 of 2 and prior year with major variances explained: and Notes: x A risk management report for each Board meeting, focusing on any i R E Lerwill stepped down as a member and Chairman on the Audit Committee on new risks arising and management of existing risks.
On an annual basis the Group finance function undertakes a review ii E A Hewitt was only entitled to attend 10 Board meetings following her appointment as a of financial controls as part of its year end process, which is considered Director on 1 September 2011. by the Board.
The annual review gives a comprehensive update on Directors conflict of interest the previous years report and outlines actions taken to redress any There are procedures in place to deal with Directors conflict of interest weaknesses in each regional business and across Group functions.
arising under the Companies Act 2006 and such procedures have The review also highlights areas where improved controls have been operated effectively during the year.
implemented and key actions to be addressed in the coming financial year, which are monitored by both the Board and the Audit Committee.
Articles of Association Control procedures The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by Special Resolution at a General Meeting of shareholders.
Detailed operational procedures that embody key controls have been developed for each of the Groups businesses.
The implications Internal control of change in law and regulations are taken into account within The Directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the those procedures.
Group systems of internal control and for reviewing the effectiveness of Monitoring process those controls.
There are clear procedures for monitoring the system of key controls.
The Board has taken into account the relevant provisions of the Code, The significant components are: the Turnbull report and the Listing Rules and an ongoing process has been established for identifying, managing and evaluating the risks x Cyclical and random reviews of operational and financial controls faced by the Group.
by the Director of Risk Management, the Groups quality managers, the Head of IT, senior finance managers and the Group finance team: The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve the Groups objectives.
The systems provide reasonable, x Review by the Audit Committee of the process for identifying and not absolute, assurances against material mis-statement or loss.
assessing risks and of the effectiveness of controls via the work Such systems are reviewed by the Board to deal with changing of external audit and direct access to Group and operational circumstances.
The Group does not have an internal audit function, although this is The Board confirms that it has considered the effectiveness of the continually under review by the Board and the Audit Committee.
The Groups system of internal controls described above for the financial year Board is presently of the view that having reviewed and considered the and up to the date of this report.
current control environment, it is still adequate given the Groups size and range of businesses.
The Group has a Group finance function that reports to the Group Finance Director and is independent of the business units to ensure objectivity and control when preparing Group financial information.
The Group finance function undertakes financial reviews of the regional finance functions on an ad hoc basis and provides technical and commercial support when required.
38 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Compliance statement The Company applied all of the principles set out in the Code for the period under review and has throughout the year complied with the detailed provisions set out therein.
The Companys auditors, KPMG Audit plc, are required to review whether the above statement reflects the Companys compliance with the provisions of the Code specified for its review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reflect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
Relationship with shareholders The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the Group Company Secretary are responsible for ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
The Company places considerable importance on communication with the shareholders, including its employee shareholders.
Apart from the Annual General Meeting, the Company communicates with its shareholders by way of the Annual Report & Financial Statements, which are available to all shareholders either in paper form or electronically and can be accessed via the Companys website http: www.
The Groups annual and interim results, as well as all announcements issued by the London Stock Exchange, are published on the Companys website.
The Company also communicates with its institutional shareholders through a combination of analysts briefings throughout the year but particularly at the interim and year end results stage.
Business at the Companys Annual General Meeting will cover the Annual Report & Financial Statements, the Directors Remuneration report, the declaration of a final dividend, election and re-election of Directors, reappointment and remuneration of auditors, political donations and political expenditure, authority to allot shares, disapplication of pre-emption rights, purchase by the Company of its own shares and notice period for general meetings.
Full details and an explanation of these resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, are counted before the Annual General Meeting and the results will be made available at the meeting after shareholders have voted on each resolution on a show of hands.
All results, statements and Company announcements are accessible to all shareholders via the Groups website http: www.
All shareholders are invited to the Annual General Meeting at which they have the opportunity to put questions to the Board.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 39
