30 Synthomer plc Annual report 2012 Corporate governance Report from the Chairman Application of the Code The main principles of the Code were applied as follows: Dear Shareholder As well as achieving a second successive year of record profitability 2012 Leadership and effectiveness also saw an enhancement in our standards of corporate governance.
Operation of the Board The activities of the Company are controlled by the Board which, I succeeded Peter Wood as Chairman of the Board in May 2012 and during 2012, comprised two executive directors and seven to eight during the course of the year three new independent non-executive non-executive directors.
In anticipation of the retirement of Mr P S Wood directors were recruited to regain Board balance following the retirement and Dr A A Dobbie at the 2012 Annual General Meeting and the of Peter and Sandy Dobbie at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
The appointment of Mr N A Johnson as Chairman three new independent appointment of Just Jansz, Ishbel Macpherson and Jinya Chen widened non-executive directors were recruited during the course of the year: the general diversity, skills and business background of the Board and Dr J J C Jansz, Ms I J S Macpherson and Mr J Chen.
The roles of I was delighted to welcome them to the Company.
Ishbel Macpherson Chairman and Chief Executive officer are clearly divided between has subsequently announced her intention not to stand for election at Mr Johnson who heads the Board in his capacity as non-executive the forthcoming AGM.
Chairman and Mr A M Whiteld who has responsibility for the running of the Companys business as Chief Executive officer.
The non-executive Our chairman of the Audit Committee, Jez Maiden, highlights the work of directors all have wide business and boardroom experience gained in that Committee later in this report which included a tender process for the a broad range of business sectors.
Groups audit services and implementation of an internal audit programme.
The Board has reserved to itself a schedule of matters which includes I took over as chairman of the Remuneration Committee in February 2013 setting long-term objectives for the Group and the strategies to be and a report on all matters relating to remuneration and the work employed in achieving them, setting policies in the areas of safety, health performed in 2012 under the chairmanship of Sandy and subsequently and the environment, recruitment and employment, risk management Ishbel is also set out separately.
Considerable work will be required and treasury and, subject to materiality thresholds, decisions on the raising in 2013 to adapt to the new UK government proposals for reforming of capital, financial commitments, capital expenditure, acquisitions and directors remuneration and associated reporting and I will oversee the disposals and the prosecution, defence and settlement of litigation.
implementation of these important changes.
During 2012 the Board held six scheduled meetings to review current and The Nomination Committee, which I have chaired since March 2012, projected performance and to determine strategic issues.
The directors had a very busy year as a result of the recruitment referred to above.
receive in advance full information on all matters to be discussed at Board The Committee will now manage the process for the appointment of meetings as well as a detailed review of performance prepared by the a further independent non-executive director following the vacancy that Chief Executive officer.
The Board has established Audit, Nomination and will arise in May and will seek to ensure that an appropriate mix of skills, Remuneration committees which are discussed below.
experience and diversity is maintained.
In addition arrangements are made each year for the Board to visit There is little compulsory change required to corporate governance up to two of the Groups operational sites and meet local management.
reporting for 2012 however your Board is monitoring closely the significant Ad hoc site visits are facilitated for individual non-executive directors developments which are expected to impact on reporting for 2013. on request.
During 2012 the Board held a meeting at the ofces of its As a number of these developments still require nalisation we have only Malaysian businesses in Kuala Lumpur.
In conjunction with that Board adopted the anticipated changes to a limited extent in this years annual meeting presentations were given by local senior management and the report.
2012 is the last year in which we report against the UK Corporate directors visited the Groups Malaysian plants.
Governance Code the Code which was published in June 2010 by the Financial Reporting Council following the publication of a revised Code in The Board has delegated to the Chief Executive officer responsibility for September 2012 which is applicable to our reporting for 2013. the development and preparation of the business plan for the Group and the annual Group budget for recommendation to the Board.
As the senior Our full statements on compliance and the application of the main executive director, the Chief Executive officer is responsible for all aspects principles of the Code are set out in the following sections of this report.
of day-to-day operational control of the Group and execution of the Group strategy.
The Chief Executive officer has established and chairs an Neil Johnson Executive Committee whose other members are the Chief Financial officer, Chairman the Chief Operating officer, the Chief Counsel and Company Secretary, the Vice President Human Resources, the Vice President Europe, Middle East & Africa, the Vice President South East Asia, the Vice Statement of compliance President Finance and the Vice President Operational Excellence & The Company considers that it has complied throughout the financial year Engineering to assist him in the performance of his duties and which ended 31 December 2012 with the provisions set out in the Code except meets once a month.
The Chairman has available to him the minutes of the in relation to the composition of the Board and its Nomination Committee.
Executive Committee and all directors receive a monthly trading summary Further details on these matters are set out in this report.
and commentary from the Chief Financial officer and an update report from the Chief Executive officer.
Governance Synthomer plc Annual report 2012 31 Board membership and balance Induction and training The Chairman, Chief Executive officer and Senior Independent Director Induction arrangements are in place in order to ensure new directors are identied on page 26.
The Chairmen and members of the Audit, receive a full formal and tailored induction on appointment.
The Chairman Nomination and Remuneration Committees are identied below.
The Board reviews and agrees the training and development needs of the directors considers Mr J K Maiden, Dr J J C Jansz, Ms I J S Macpherson and and the skills and knowledge of the Board as a whole are updated by Mr J Chen are independent in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
briengs provided by the Companys internal resources and materials and seminars offered by external advisers.
For some five months of 2012 the Company was not in compliance with the requirement of Code provision B.
1.2 for half the Board, excluding the Performance evaluation Chairman, to comprise independent non-executive directors.
Following Performance evaluations of the Board, its committees and its directors completion of a recruitment exercise in 2012 which culminated with the were carried out in the last year by the following internal processes: appointment of Mr J Chen in October 2012 the Board returned to s an assessment of the performance of individual non-executive compliance with this requirement.
directors is carried out by the Chairman through a rolling programme of one-to-one discussions using performance evaluation questions as The Board held a total of six meetings in 2012.
In addition the Chairman the centrepiece for those discussions.
Every non-executive director is held one separate meeting with the non-executive directors without the assessed in this way once a year: executive directors being present to appraise the performance of the s the performance of the executive directors was reviewed in August 2012 executive management.
The non-executive directors also met once at a meeting of the non-executive directors chaired by the Chairman: without the Chairman to appraise his performance.
s a meeting of the non-executive directors in the absence of the Chairman chaired by the Senior Independent Director was held in The table below shows the number of meetings of the Board, Audit, November 2012 to evaluate the performance of the Chairman, taking into Remuneration and Nomination Committees held during the year and the account the views of the executive directors: and number of meetings attended by each director.
Where a director is unable s the Board and its Committees carry out an annual self-assessment of to attend a Board or Committee meeting his views on agenda items are performance led by the Chairman and the Chairman of each committee canvassed in advance of the meeting and incorporated into the discussions.
The results of assessment questionnaires completed by those Chairmen were reviewed by the relevant committees and the Number of meetings held Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Board and were shared with and discussed by the Board as a whole 64 4 1 at its meeting in November 2012 and January 2013.
Number of meetings attended 2012 saw significant change to the Boards composition with a strengthening of its effectiveness and a widening of its skills, business 6 6 N A N A N A D C Blackwood background and general diversity.
Due to this change it was considered 6 6 N A N A N A A G Catto that it would be too early to consider the introduction of an externally 6 3 3 1 1 2 2 N A A A Dobbie facilitated Board evaluation process during 2012.
6 6 0 1 2 2 1 1 N A Johnson 5 6 N A N A N A Lee Hau Hian Non-executive directors are appointed for three-year terms.
All directors 6 6 4 4 3 4 0 1 submit themselves for annual election at each Annual General Meeting.
J K Maiden 6 6 N A N A 1 1 A M Whiteld Board committees 6 3 3 N A N A N A P S Wood The Board has formally established Nomination, Audit, and Remuneration 1, 5 1 2 1 1 1 2 N A D Fournier Committees, each with their own terms of reference which set out their 2 4 4 3 3 2 2 N A J J C Jansz respective roles and the authority delegated to them by the Board.
Copies 3 2 3 3 3 2 2 N A I J S Macpherson of the terms of reference are available upon request from the Company 4 J Chen 1 1 N A N A N A Secretary and can also be downloaded from the Companys website.
Since 17 May 2012 the Nomination Committee has not complied with 1.
Appointed on 1 January 2012 the composition requirements of Code Provision B.
Appointed on 2 April 2012 of its members were not independent non-executive directors.
Appointed on 17 May 2012 considers that the current composition of the Nomination Committee 4.
Retired on 13 March 2012 provides it with the exibility and speed of decision making that is necessary 6.
Retired on 17 May 2012 in connection with the interview process required for making nominations to ll Board vacancies.
Accordingly the Board does not currently intend to make any changes to the composition of this Committee.
All non-executive directors have a standing invitation to attend Committee meetings unless they are notied otherwise.
32 Synthomer plc Annual report 2012 Corporate governance continued Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee Throughout 2012 the Audit Committee was chaired by Mr J K Maiden Dear Shareholder and comprised three independent non-executive directors.
Mr Maiden is During 2012 the Committee carried out substantial work in connection considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience with the provision of the Groups external audit services and internal for the purposes of Provision C. 3.1 of the Code due to his current financial audit processes.
The Committee has established a detailed remit regarding the application of financial reporting and internal control As the external auditor had been in place since 2002 and their appointment principles, which covers: was last reviewed in 2009 it was decided that 2012 was an appropriate s monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any point at which to put the Groups audit services contract out to tender.
formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and The Committee oversaw the tender process which was initiated in reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: April 2012 and conducted by senior financial management and involved s reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and the Groups internal formal proposals and presentations from three audit rms.
Following a control and risk management systems: rigorous process which took into account qualication, expertise, s monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit resources, independence and value for money the Committees function: recommendation to the Board that  LLP be s making recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment appointed was accepted and the appointment was made on 12 July 2012. of the external auditor and approving their remuneration and terms There were no contractual obligations that acted to restrict the Committees of engagement: recommendation.
I would like to thank the outgoing auditors, Deloitte LLP, s reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence for their service over the last ten years and welcome on your behalf and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: and  LLP as our new auditor.
s developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
Following an assessment of the effectiveness of the 2012 audit carried out by way of a review and discussion with the external audit team and The Chief Financial officer and senior members of his department attend the Companys senior financial management the Committee is pleased meetings of the Committee as part of the review of the Groups interim to recommend to you that  LLP be appointed and annual financial statements prior to their submission to the Board.
as auditor at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Committee meets periodically with the Companys auditor without management present to discuss the adequacy of the Groups financial As anticipated in the 2011 Audit Committee report a formalised programme management, internal controls and information systems and to review the of outsourced internal audit services managed by a member of the terms of their engagement, effectiveness, independence and objectivity.
Companys senior financial management was put into operation from the beginning of 2012.
The Committee approved the appointment of With regard to seeking to ensure the independence and objectivity of KPMG UK LLP at the end of 2011 as the provider of the outsourced the auditor, the Audit Committees policy is to avoid the auditor providing services and agreed a three year work plan with reports to be made to services in areas which may create or be perceived to create a conict of the Committee twice a year.
The first year of the programme has worked interest.
Accordingly, other than in circumstances where time constraints well with all the businesses acquired as part of the PolymerLatex render it impractical or assignments are of a minor nature, the auditor is not acquisition in 2011 being the subject of internal audit reports in 2012. invited to tender or propose for services of the following nature: corporate The second year of the programme will be rolled out in 2013 and is being finance, legal, information technology and systems, recruitment or supplemented, as it was in 2012, by operational review visits performed remuneration, accounting, internal audit or control, acquisition due by senior financial management.
diligence, valuations or appraisals, actuarial or general business consulting.
In addition the auditor has been requested not to provide services to The Committee also covered the other matters delegated to it by the executive directors or senior executives except where approved by the Board under its remit during the course of the year and these are reported Audit Committee.
Non-executive directors are required to disclose any on in the following section of this report.
relationship they have with the auditor.
Prior to appointment in July 2012  LLP were providing and have continued to Finally I would like to thank my fellow Committee members whose provide personal tax advice to the Chief Executive officer and expatriate tax details are set out below for their support and look forward to working services to the Groups senior managers who are required to work outside with Alex Catto who joined the Committee this month.
The Committee do not consider that the provision of these services creates any conict of interest as they are of a minor nature Jez Maiden and are provided by individuals and teams who are not involved in the audit Audit Committee Chairman and accordingly have approved their continuation.
Details of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditor in 2012 are set out Audit Committee membership since 1 January 2012 in note 6 on page 56.
Non-audit fees principally relate to tax compliance Jez Maiden Chairman and tax advisory services.
Just Jansz from 17 May 2012 Alex Catto from 6 March 2013 Ishbel Macpherson from 17 May 2012 until 7 February 2013 Sandy Dobbie until 17 May 2012 Neil Johnson until 17 May 2012 Dominique Fournier until 13 March 2012 Governance Synthomer plc Annual report 2012 33 The Committee met formally 4 times during 2012 and carried out The Board has adopted a set of shareholder communication principles the following main activities in addition to the items mentioned in the in order to ensure that Board members develop an understanding of the Chairmans overview: views of the Groups major shareholders.
These principles require the Chairman to be present with the Chief Executive officer and the Chief s Reviewed the financial statements in the 2011 annual report and Financial officer at sufficient shareholder presentations and meetings the 2012 interim statement: that he fully understands the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
s Reviewed the scope and effectiveness of the external audit: s Monitored the effectiveness of the internal controls and risk The Chief Executive officer reports on shareholder relations at each management: Board meeting.
Communications with shareholders relating to corporate s Received reports from the external auditor on the major findings governance matters are conducted by the Chairman with the assistance of its work: of the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
s Approved the annual audit plan: Written reports on all meetings between non-executive directors and s Reviewed its remit: and institutional shareholders and their representative bodies are presented s Reviewed the Groups whistleblowing arrangements.
to the Board at the first opportunity following such meetings as is all correspondence with them.
In addition the Chairman of the Committee had regular dialogue with the auditor during the course of the year.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of the Chairman or Nomination Committee the Chief Executive officer has failed to resolve or for which such contact The composition of the Nomination Committee since 1 January 2012 is inappropriate.
has been as follows: Neil Johnson Chairman since 17 May 2012 The Board seeks to encourage participation of all shareholders, and in Jez Maiden particular private investors, at the Companys Annual General Meeting and Adrian Whiteld endeavours to ensure all Board members are in attendance.
In particular, Peter Wood until 17 May 2012 and Chairman until that date the Chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees Sandy Dobbie until 17 May 2012 are available to answer questions.
The Committee is responsible for: the regular review of the structure, size The Company makes use of its website www.
com to and composition of the Board and the making of recommendations with communicate with its shareholders where it publishes interim and full year regard to any changes: leading the process for Board appointments results, Company announcements, share price and corporate governance and nominating candidates for non-executive positions: and considering and other investor information.
Accountability The Committee led the process for nominating Dr J J C Jansz, An explanation of the directors responsibility for preparing the Ms I J S Macpherson and Mr J Chen for appointment as independent financial statements, their report that the business is a going concern, non-executive directors.
This process involved a thorough review a responsibility statement and their statement as to disclosure of information of a range of candidates put forward by an independent recruitment to the auditor are set out on pages 40 and 28 respectively.
Statements by consultancy, which conducted an extensive search process.
The diversity the auditor about its reporting responsibilities are set out on pages 41 and including gender of the Board was taken into account by the Committee 79 respectively.
A report on the approach to internal control is set out below.
The directors The Committee also reviewed senior management succession planning endeavour to make the annual report and financial statements as within the Group during the course of the year.
informative and understandable as possible.
The Nomination Committee held one formal meeting during 2012 and Internal control a number of informal meetings and telephone calls as well as numerous The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for the Groups system interviews in connection with the nomination process referred to above.
of internal control and sets appropriate policies to ensure that the Code requirements on internal control are met.
The system of internal control The Board adopted a policy on diversity in March 2013.
This policy seeks deployed within the Group is designed to reduce the risks of failure to to ensure that diversity in its broadest sense is taken into account in the meet business objectives, but these risks cannot be eliminated.
The internal process of making appointments on merit against objective selection control system adopted can therefore only provide reasonable, not criteria.
Copies of the policy are available at www.
absolute, assurance about meeting such business objectives or against material mis-statement or loss.
Remuneration Committee All matters relating to the Remuneration Committee and remuneration The Groups internal controls over the financial reporting and consolidation are covered in the Remuneration report, set out on pages 35 to 39. processes are designed under the supervision of the Chief Financial officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting Relations with shareholders and the preparation and fair presentation of the Groups published financial Dialogue with institutional investors is conducted on a regular basis by the statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS.
Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer and meetings take place following the announcement of interim and full year results and at other times according to circumstances.
34 Synthomer plc Annual report 2012 Corporate governance continued An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant In addition, the Board: business risks faced by the Group has been in place since 2000. s receives copies of the minutes from all Audit Committee meetings: This has since been built upon so as to embed further the process into s considers the role of the Group insurance programme: the businesses and to enhance the usefulness of the relevant processes s receives regular written and oral reports from management on all and information, and has been operated throughout 2012 and up to the aspects of production, operations, financial and risk management date of approval of the annual report and accounts, and accords with the matters: and Turnbull Guidance.
s in compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code the Board regularly reviews and approves the effectiveness of the Groups system The system is applied across the Group on a functional and regional basis of internal controls.
and a bottom up risk prole is created by evaluating the information at an operational and Group level.
Individual senior managers within Synthomers The Board confirms that a review of the effectiveness of the Companys businesses identify and assess key risks associated within their area of risk management and internal control systems was carried out in 2012. responsibility based on formal management information and interaction with colleagues, customers, suppliers and other parties.
Environmental, social and governance matters In January 2007 the Association of British Insurers ABI published a revised The individual submissions are consolidated, reviewed and agreed by version of its guidelines on responsible investment disclosure.
A business risk report is prepared that is closely guidelines require statements on the extent to which environmental, social linked to business strategy and takes account of key internal and external and governance matters are taken into account by the Board and identied, factors.
Risks are prioritised using a common risk matrix, which forms the assessed, managed and monitored, particularly in relation to the risks and basis of a single corporate risk report that is reviewed and discussed by opportunities they present to the value of the Company.
The Company is a member of the FTSE4Good Index.
The individual business risk reports are formally reviewed every six months, out of which a revised report is submitted which identies changes in the Environmental matters risk environment.
The maintenance of high standards of environmental together with health and safety protection is central to the Companys business.
A separate The process was last reviewed by the Synthomer Board of Directors in statement on safety, health and environmental SHE matters has been March 2013.
The nature of the risks identied as a result of this process a feature of the annual report for a number of years.
The Corporate social during the year primarily relate to matters of an operational and financial responsibility report statement on pages 15 to 25 incorporates the nature and the most significant of those which faced the Group in 2012 ABI guidelines and includes a report on the initiatives the Company are reviewed in the reports of the Chairman, Chief Executive officer, has adopted regarding sustainable development.
Chief Financial officer and the Report of the directors.
Social and ethical matters Risks associated with safety, health and the environment are, by the nature The Board takes account of social and ethical matters as part of its review of the Groups business, always of the utmost concern and the Corporate of internal control which, by virtue of its approach to risk identication, social responsibility report on pages 15 to 25 reviews the Groups covers areas which encompass social and ethical matters.
performance in this connection in 2012.
The Board is conscious of its responsibility to the communities in which The processes which are used by the Board either directly or, where the Groups businesses operate and encourages local engagement appropriate, through the Audit Committee to review the effectiveness of the by management which includes supporting environmental, health and internal control and risk management systems including in relation to the education initiatives.
financial reporting process and the process for preparing consolidated accounts include the following: The Board is also aware of the reputational and legal risks associated with s a review of the external audit work plan: social and ethical issues and has a Group-wide code of business conduct s consideration of reports from management and external parties, on corruption and anti-competitive activities, which is available on the including the auditor, on the system of internal financial control and Companys website and upon request from the Company Secretary.
The any material control weaknesses: purpose of this code is to ensure that the Groups employees have a clear s a quarterly review of safety, health and environmental performance: understanding of the principles that are important in these areas when s discussion with management of the actions taken on any possible conducting the Groups business.
The application of the code is explained problem areas for the business identied by Board members or in to senior management at regular intervals and they are charged with its the audit report: communication throughout their businesses supported by internal and s consideration of a consolidated risk management report setting out external training.
A compliance procedure involving annual certication by the main conclusions from the internal control process: and regional senior management and a procedure for maintaining a register of, s a biannual report from the internal audit function.
and where appropriate gaining prior approval for, gifts, entertainment and corporate hospitality operates throughout the Group.
A report is made to the Audit Committee annually on the code and the Companys whistleblowing procedure.
Governance The Boards approach to governance, training of directors and identication and assessment of risk is set out above.
