18 Corporate governance Introduction Number of meetings attended Board  The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Number of meetings 6 3 7 1 Listing Authority the Board confirms that the Company has throughout the year and as at the date of this Annual Report, Director Board  complied with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Charles Dunstone, Chairman 6 Dido Harding 6 This section of the Annual Report, together with the Directors 1 Report and Directors Remuneration Report, provides details Amy Stirling 5 ofhow the Company has applied the principles and complied 2 David Goldie 5 with the provisions of the Code.
In particular, this section Roger Taylor 6 1 summarises the Boards compliance with the five key principles 3 of the Code, namely: Leadership, Effectiveness, Remuneration, John Gildersleeve 527 1 Accountability and Relations with Shareholders.
Ian West 6 3 7 1 John Allwood 6 3 Board balance and independence The Board has nine members, four of whom, excluding the 4 Brent Hoberman 6 4 Chairman and deputy Chairman, are considered independent 1 Amy Stirling was unable to attend a Board meeting due to illness.
These are John Gildersleeve, our 2 David Goldie was unable to attend a Board meeting due to a prior Senior Independent Director, John Allwood, Brent Hoberman business commitment.
Roger Taylor, the deputy Chairman, is not 3 John Gildersleeve was unable to attend a Board meeting and an Audit considered independent given he was previously Chief Financial Committee meeting due to a prior business commitment.
4 Brent Hoberman was unable to attend three Remuneration Committee officer of CPW from the which the Company was demerged meetings due to prior business commitments.
Although the Board believes it currently has the right balance and level of independence, the Board is also considering a proposal to appoint another independent As well as the formal meetings during the year, the Board met at Non-Executive Director during FY2013 in order to provide other times appropriate for approving certain announcements certain additional experience to the Board.
will be carried out by the Nomination Committe.
It is important to the Board that Non-Executive Directors have Therefore, at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman the ability to inuence and challenge appropriately.
To this end areindependent and this has been the situation for allof the all Non-Executive Directors are given a thorough induction to financial year.
the Group and take priority in Board discussions.
All Directors receive papers in advance of meetings.
They also receive regular The Chairman and Executive Directors have service contracts reports and members of the Groups executive team are invited that can be terminated by either the Company or the Director to present at Board meetings so that the Non-Executive on12 months notice.
Directors form a good knowledge of how the Group operates.
The Non-Executive Directors have three year periods of The Chairman meets regularly with just the Non-Executive appointment, all of which commenced from 20 January Directors, usually in the evening prior to every other Board 2010 withthe exception of Ian West, who was appointed meeting.
This ensures that any concerns can be raised and on 8 February 2011.
All the independent Directors have discussed outside of formal Board meetings.
The Senior a three month notice period with no compensation for Independent Director also attends these sessions where it loss of ofce.
Roger Taylor has a six month notice period.
is also possible, if required, to discuss any matters with the otherindependent Non-Executive Directors.
Leadership The Senior Independent Director also takes responsibility for performance evaluation of the Board: succession planning for How the Board operates theChairman: and chairing Non-Executive Director only meetings.
The Board has reserved certain matters, and delegated others, Inaddition, he is an alternative point of contact for shareholders to the Groups Executive Committee, which comprises Dido inthe event that normal executive channels are not appropriate.
Harding Chief Executive officer, Amy Stirling Chief Financial officer, David Goldie Group Commercial Director and other It is important to the Group that all Directors understand external senior employees drawn from across the Group.
Reserved views of the Group.
To this end regular reports are provided to the matters include approving the Groups strategy, annual budgets Board by the Groups Investor Relations Director, covering broker and other longer term planning.
reports and the output of meetings with significant shareholders.
As stated below, the Board has also delegated certain matters toa number of Board Committees.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 19 Effectiveness John Allwood remains the member of the Committee with relevant and recent financial experience as recognised Performance evaluation and continued development by the Consultative Committee of Accountancy bodies, Each Board member has been subject to an internal although all members are expected to be nancially literate performance review during the year, where the balance of and have an understanding of: skills, knowledge andexperience of each Director was reviewed.
the principles of, contents of and developments in, financial This was undertaken by each member of the Board completing reporting, accounting standards and statements of detailed questionnaires.
The results of these were analysed by recommended practice: the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and the Board as a whole against the broad criteria of overall Board effectiveness key aspects of the Companys operations: and individual contributions.
matters that inuence or distort the presentation of As part of the performance review the ability of each Director, accounts and key financial information: inparticular the Non-Executive Directors, to demonstrate the the principles of, and developments in, key applicable required time commitment to the role was assessed.
company law and other legislation relevant to the Company: As a result of this performance evaluation the Chairman the role of internal and external auditing and risk management: confirms that each of the Directors seeking re-election at theAGM continues to be effective and has demonstrated the regulatory framework of the Companys business: and theappropriate commitment to the role.
environmental and social responsibility best The Senior Independent Director also met with the other reportingpractices.
Non-Executive Directors to assess the Chairmans effectiveness During the period, the formal calendar of items considered taking into account the views of Executive Directors.
at each Audit Committee meeting within each annual cycle In line with the Code, an external performance evaluation embraced the Code requirements to: ofthe Board will be conducted during the FY2014.
monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the The Company Secretary ensures that the Board is made aware Company, and any formal announcements relating of new laws, regulations and other information appropriate to the totheCompanys financial performance, including reviewing Group to ensure that all Directors continually update their skills, significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: knowledge and familiarity of the Group in order to full their review the Companys internal financial controls and its roles.
Additionally each Director has access to the advice and internal control and risk management systems and to services of the Company Secretary and also has the ability to make recommendations to the Board: take independent external advice if required.
review the Companys arrangements by which employees Board Committees may raise concerns in confidence: The Board has established five Committees: Audit, monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys Remuneration, Nomination, Regulatory Compliance and internal audit function: Television: the first three as required by the Code, the fourth to ensure the compliance of the Group within the regulatory make recommendations to the Board in relation to the environment in which it operates and the fifth to focus on the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external Groups work in relation to its forthcoming television proposition.
auditor and to approve their remunerations and terms ofengagement: Audit Committee review and monitor the external auditors independence and The Committee currently comprises the following independent objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking Non-Executive Directors: John Allwood Chairman, John into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory Gildersleeve and Ian West.
Roger Taylor is not a member but requirements: and attends the Committee by invitation.
review the Companys policy on the engagement of the The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board on any external auditor to supply non-audit services.
significant issues that may have arisen at the Board meeting following each Committee meeting.
In addition, the Chairman The Committees remit requires it to report to the Board ofthe Committee is happy to make himself available to identifying any matters in respect of which it considers investorson request.
During the year, all requirements of that action or improvement is needed and to make theCode in respect of the Committee were met.
The work recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
undertaken by the Committee is described within the following The actions taken by the Committee over the last sections of this report.
12 months include: The Groups Chief Financial officer and other senior management review of the financial statements in the Annual Report 2011 attend the Committee meetings by invitation of the Committee.
and received reports from the external auditor on the same: Representatives of the Companys external auditor and other senior executives from Finance, Tax and Treasury, Legal and review of the non-audit work undertaken by the external auditor Business Assurance also attend these meetings by invitation during the year and the non-audit fees paid to the auditor: of the Committee.
The external and internal auditor has direct review of the external auditors performance: access to the Committee during formal meetings and time is set aside for them to have private discussion with the Committee, receipt of reports on internal audit work undertaken, key inthe absence of management attendees.
findings and implementation of actions and approval of the internal audit plan for the year: TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2012 20 Corporate governance continued review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal The Committees terms of reference, which are available on controlsand disclosures made in the Annual Report request from the Company Secretary and are published on the onthismatter: and Groups website www.
review of updates on Group Accounting, Tax and In light of the assessments and review undertaken, the Treasury matters.
Committee recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be retained as the auditor of the Company.
This recommendation The Committee is responsible for the development, wasendorsed by the Board.
implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy on external audit, which assigns responsibility for monitoring the Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in independence, objectivity and compliance by the external ofce as auditor andaresolution to re-appoint them will be auditor to the Committee.
proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The policy relating to the provision of non-audit services by theexternal auditor species the types of work from which the Remuneration external auditor is excluded: for which the external auditor can be engaged without referral to the Committee: and for which Remuneration Committee a case by case decision is required.
In order to safeguard the The Committee currently comprises the following independent auditors objectivity and independence, the ratio of non-audit Non-Executive Directors: John Gildersleeve Chairman, Brent fees to audit fees is monitored by the Committee.
Any work Hoberman and Ian West.
Roger Taylor is not a member but the proposed in excess of 50% of the audit fee is referred tothe attends the Committee by invitation.
Amounts below this are discussed with the Other Directors including the Chief Executive officer, the Chairman of the Committee.
Company Secretary, the Group Human Resources Director, A statement of fees paid or accrued for services from the and advisors attended by invitation of the Committee.
A detailed external auditor during the period is set out below: description of the Committees remit and work during the period is contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages m 2012 2011 22 to 28.
Fees payable to the Companys auditor for The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board following theaudit of the Companys annual accounts 0.1 0.1 each Committee meeting.
Audit of the Group and its subsidiaries The Committees terms of reference, which are available on pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.7 request from the Company Secretary and are published on the Audit services provided to all Group Groups website www.
companies 0.7 0.8 Accountability Taxation services 0.1 0.1 Nomination Committee Other services 0.2 0.1 During the year the Committee comprised the following All other services 0.3 0.2 Non-Executive Directors: John Gildersleeve Chairman, Roger Taylor and Ian West.
Total Group auditors remuneration 1.0 1.0 The Committee is responsible for succession planning at Board level, overseeing the selection and appointment of Directors, regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Certain non-audit services are pre-approved by the Committee Board and making its recommendations to the Board.
It assists depending upon the nature and size of the service.
Tax services in evaluating the commitments of individual Directors and the principally comprise technical advice associated with relevant balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
UK and international scal laws and regulations and, in particular, assessment of the potential implications of proposed corporate The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board following transactions or restructuring.
Other services principally each Committee meeting.
represent advice provided and project management support The Committees terms of reference, which are available on received for the set up of the Groups human resources and request from the Company Secretary and are published on the finance shared service functions.
Having undertaken a review Groups website www.
of the non-audit related work, the Committee has satisfied itself that the services undertaken during the period did not prejudice Regulatory Compliance Committee the external auditors independence.
The members of this Committee are John Gildersleeve At each of its meetings the Committee reviewed and considered Chairman, Dido Harding Chief Executive officer, reports on Risk and Business Assurance on the status of the David Goldie Group Commercial Director and Tim Morris Groups risk management systems, findings from the internal Company Secretary.
audit function concerning internal controls, and reports on the Other senior executives of the Group attend by invitation status of any weaknesses in internal controls identied by the of theCommittee.
The purpose of the Committee is to provide the Board with The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board following visibility of how the Group remains compliant with those each Committee meeting.
regulations affecting its businesses from time to time.
Its members therefore include those senior executives who are operationally responsible for implementing permanent changes necessary to ensure the Group remains compliant.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 21 Such members are accountable to the Committee and the to achieve business objectives.
They can only provide Board for the successful delivery of such changes.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of law and regulations.
This Committee meets at least four times a year and reports to the Board accordingly.
The Group also operates a weekly The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness Compliance Committee made up of those senior executives of the systems of risk management and internal control in including the Chief Executive officer responsible for all key operation during the year and up to the date of the approval of areas of compliance across the Group and is chaired by the the Annual Report and financial statements.
This was approved Company Secretary.
Targets set at these meetings are by the Audit Committee and the Board.
This is supported by the Business Assurance function through an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Television Committee risks faced by the Group.
The Board has established a Committee delegated with managing the Groups future plans for television.
The Board retains strategic decision making capacity in relation to television.
The Committee Relations with shareholders is chaired by Ian West and its members are drawn from the The Board believes it is important to explain business Executive Directors and other senior executives of the Group.
developments and financial results to the Companys Terms of reference for the Committee are available from the shareholders and to understand any shareholder Company Secretary on request.
Theprincipal communication media used to impart information to shareholders are news releases Risk management and internal control including results announcements and Company The Company has established a risk management programme publications.
In all such communications, care is taken that assists management throughout the Company to identify, to ensure that no price sensitive information is released.
assess and mitigate business, financial, operational and compliance risks.
The Board views management of risk as The Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer have integral to good business practice.
The programme is designed lead responsibility for investor relations.
They are supported to support managements decision making and to improve by a dedicated Investor Relations Director who, amongst other the reliability of business performance.
matters, organises presentations for analysts and institutional investors.
There is a full programme of regular meetings and The risk management programme is supported by the Business dialogue with major institutional shareholders, fund managers, Assurance and Internal Audit functions.
analysts, retail brokers and credit investors, upon which the To ensure that all parts of the Group have a good understanding Chairman ensures that the Board receives regular updates at of risk, members of this team have conducted risk workshops Board meetings.
TheBoard also receives periodic reports on and reviews within each of the main functions in the past year, investors views ofthe performance of the Company.
All the culminating in an assessment of key business risks by the Non-Executive Directors and, in particular, the Chairman and Executive Directors and key management.
These risk Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with major assessments have been wide-ranging, covering risks arising shareholders, if such meetings are required.
The Company plans from the regulatory environment, strategy, counter-parties also to communicate with shareholders through the AGM, at andorganisational change associated with major projects.
which the Chairman will give an account of the progress of the Therisk management process operates throughout the Group, business over the last year, andareview of current issues, and being applied equally to the main business units and corporate provides the opportunity forshareholders to ask questions.
A risk report and update is provided at each Board During the year the Group launched a new discretionary and Audit Committee meeting.
Prior to the launch of the plan, significant The output of each assessment is a list of key strategic, financial, shareholders were consulted.
Associated action plans The Companys AGM provides all shareholders with the and control to mitigate identied risks are put in place where opportunity to vote on the resolutions put to shareholders this is possible and to the extent considered appropriate by whether personally or by proxy.
Information relating to the Board taking account of costs and benets.
Changes in the votes cast will, following the AGM, be available on the status of the key risks and updates on mitigation are reported Companys website www.
regularly at each Board meeting.
Further financial and business information is available on the The Directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system Groups website www.
of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Board delegates to executive management the responsibility for designing, operating and monitoring these systems.
The systems are based on a process of identifying, evaluating and managing key risks and include the risk management processes set out above.
The systems of internal control were in place throughout the period and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and financial statements.
The effectiveness of these systems is periodically reviewed by the Audit Committee in accordance with the revised guidance in the Turnbull Report.
These systems are also rened as necessary to meet changes in the Groups business and associated risks.
The systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2012
