Governance: Board of Directors Introducing your Board of Directors Sir Peter Gershon Chairman and Javed Ahmed Chief Executive Tim Lodge Chief Financial Officer Chairman of the Nominations and Joined the Board as Chief Executive in Joined the Board in December 2008 as Corporate Responsibility Committees October 2009.
Joined the Board as an independent Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Non-Executive Director and Chairman Javed has extensive international experience Tim joined the Group in 1988 and has held Designate in February 2009.
Appointed from a wide variety of senior commercial a number of senior operational and financial Chairman in July 2009.
He started his roles, both in the UK and internationally, Skills and Experience career with Procter & Gamble and then including Managing Director of Zambia Sir Peter has broad business experience spent five years with Bain & Co. before Sugar: Group Financial Controller: Finance gained in large and complex international joining Benckiser later Reckitt Benckiser Director of the Food & Industrial Ingredients, organisations and held various leadership plc in 1992 where he gained significant Europe division: and Director of Investor roles in the UK private and public sector.
experience of international consumer goods Relations.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered He was formerly Chairman of Premier markets and held positions including Senior Institute of Management Accountants.
Farnell plc: Chief Executive of the Office of Vice President, Northern Europe: President, Other Directorships Government Commerce: and Managing North America: Executive Vice President, None Director of Marconi Electronic Systems.
North America, Australia and New Zealand: and Executive Vice President, Europe.
Other Directorships Chairman of National Grid plc Other Directorships Member of the UK Defence Academy None Advisory Board Member of HM Government Efficiency Board Liz Airey Non-Executive Director and William Camp Non-Executive Director Evert Henkes Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Joined the Board in May 2010.
Joined the Board in January 2007.
Joined the Board in December 2003.
Skills and Experience Bill worked for 22 years for Archer Daniels Liz was an investment banker and has Midland Company, before retiring in 2007, Skills and Experience extensive financial experience in the UK and and held a variety of management positions Most of Everts career was with Shell where internationally.
She was formerly Finance including Executive Vice President, Asia he held a number of senior management Director of Monument Oil and Gas plc.
Strategy: Executive Vice President, positions in Europe and Asia Pacific Processing: and Senior Vice President, culminating in Chief Executive of Shell Other Directorships Global Oil Seeds, Cocoa and Wheat Milling.
Chemicals from 1998 until his retirement Chairman of the Unilever UK Pension Fund in 2003.
Senior Independent Director of Jupiter Other Directorships Fund Management PLC Non-executive director of Chiquita Brands Other Directorships Non-executive director of Dunedin International Inc Non-executive director of Air Products Enterprise Investment Trust PLC Non-executive director of BioAmber Inc and Chemicals Inc Senior Advisor, Naxos Capital Non-executive director of SembCorp Industries Ltd Non-executive director of TNK-BP Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 36
