Governance: Corporate Governance Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises three Dear Shareholder Main responsibilities of the Audit non-executive directors, and oversees the Committee Groups financial reporting and internal I am pleased to present the Audit controls and provides a formal reporting Committees report on our activities The main responsibilities of the link with the external auditors.
Its terms of during the year.
Committee include: reference, which are reviewed annually by We restructured our agenda this year overseeing the Groups financial the Board, are available on the Companys to give us more time to conduct reporting process and monitoring the website, www.
detailed reviews of key topics, in integrity of the financial statements The Committee met six times during the addition to the usual matters we and formal announcements relating year.
Membership of the Committee and consider, such as approving the to the Groups financial performance: attendance during the year were as follows: financial results for the full year, half reviewing significant financial Number of year and the interim management reporting issues and accounting Directors as at Number of meetings statements and reviewing applicable policies and disclosures in financial 31 March 2012 meetings attended accounting policies and going concern reports: Liz Airey Chairman assumptions.
The topics we reviewed reviewing the effectiveness of the of the Committee 6 6 included the protection of confidential Groups internal control procedures Evert Henkes 6 5 information, governance of Group and risk management systems: Douglas Hurt 6 6 pensions, commodities risk reviewing the effectiveness of the management and the first phase of internal audit function: All the Committee members have the transfer of activities into our global overseeing the Groups relationship extensive management experience Shared Service Centre in dz, Poland.
with the external auditors: in large international organisations.
It is reviewing and monitoring the external The Committee felt this change was a a requirement of the Code that at least auditors independence and good one, as we know from feedback one Committee member has recent and objectivity and the effectiveness from the Board and Committee relevant financial experience.
Liz Airey was of the audit process: and effectiveness reviews, and so we will an investment banker and former finance making recommendations to the continue with it.
Topics for the year director of Monument Oil and Gas plc and Board on the appointment or ahead include accounting control Douglas Hurt is Finance Director at IMI plc, reappointment of the Groups standards, risk management and more and both meet this requirement.
detailed reviews of Group functions.
The Chief Financial Officer, VP Group In March 2012, the Board visited our Audit and Assurance, Group VP Finance Independence of the external auditors new Commercial and Food Innovation and Control and representatives of the The Groups external auditors are Centre in Chicago, USA.
This provided external auditors are normally invited to  LLP PwC us with a useful opportunity to meet attend each meeting of the Committee.
and the Committee operates a policy to with both the local audit team and The Chairman of the Board and Chief safeguard the objectivity and independence local finance managers.
We have also Executive also attend meetings of the of the external auditors.
This policy sets adjusted our agenda so that divisional Committee by invitation.
out certain disclosure requirements by finance leaders will now meet with us The minutes of each meeting are circulated the external auditors to the Committee: more regularly.
The VP Group Audit and restrictions on the employment of the Liz Airey Assurance and the external auditors have external auditors former employees: partner Chairman of the Audit Committee direct access to, and meet regularly with, rotation: and procedures for the approval the Chairman of the Committee outside of non-audit related services provided by formal Committee meetings.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the processes that the The Committee maintains a formal calendar external auditors have in place to safeguard of items for consideration at each meeting their independence and received a letter and within the annual audit cycle to ensure from them confirming that, in their opinion, that its work is in line with the requirements they remained independent.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 44 Governance The Audit Committee restructured its agenda this year to devote more time to detailed reviews of key topics.
The Committee closely monitors the level In addition to the activities outlined in Audit Committee Effectiveness of audit and non-audit related services the statement from the Chairman of the undertaking an effectiveness review they provide to the Group.
Non-audit related Committee, during the year and up to which concluded that the Committee was services are normally limited to assignments the date of this annual report, the work considered to be operating effectively, that are closely related to the annual audit undertaken by the Committee included: while identifying some process changes.
or where the work is of such a nature that External audit a detailed understanding of the Group is Review of the effectiveness of the reviewing the effectiveness of the external necessary.
A policy for the engagement external auditors audit process, the external auditors of the external auditors to supply non-audit conducting an internal review of the strategy and plan for the half-year review related services has been implemented external auditors in the year having and full-year audit, and the qualifications, to formalise these arrangements which undertaken an external review in the expertise, resources and independence requires Audit Committee approval for year ended 31 March 2010, which of the external auditors: certain categories of work and fee levels.
concluded that the external audit process agreeing the terms of engagement and A breakdown of the fees paid to the external was operating effectively and PwC fees of the external auditors for the audit: auditors in respect of audit and non-audit continued to provide a good service to reviewing the policy on auditor related work is included in Note 8 of the Tate & Lyle.
The Committee agreed that independence and the basis of the financial statements.
Having undertaken there was no need to undertake a tender provision of non-audit related services a review of the non-audit related services for the audit at present: by the external auditors: provided during the year the majority of reviewing the fees paid to other audit meeting with representatives of the which related to work performed on the firms for services during the year ended external auditors in the USA while on Groups common IS IT platform, it was 31 March 2012 and noting that there were a scheduled site visit : and assessed that PwC were best placed to no contractual obligations that would undertaking a review of the effectiveness perform these additional services in view restrict the Committees choice of external of the external auditors.
of their knowledge of the business, the time auditors should it decide that any change constraints in completing the work and the Risk management framework and was appropriate: and likely cost.
The Committee is satisfied that internal audit recommending to the Board that PwC these services did not prejudice the external receiving and considering regular reports continue to act as auditors to the Group.
from the VP Group Audit and Assurance PwC have indicated their willingness to on the Groups risk management system, continue in office, and a resolution that Work undertaken during the year findings from reviews of internal financial they be reappointed will be proposed at The chart below shows the approximate controls, and the remit, organisation, the AGM.
time the Committee has spent discussing annual plan and resources of the internal agenda items during the year, separated Review of the effectiveness of the audit function: into broad categories.
internal audit function reviewing the strength of the internal undertaking a review of the effectiveness controls framework and considering the Work undertaken during the year of the internal audit function.
The review annual review of internal controls on concluded that the internal audit function behalf of the Board: continued to strengthen and was making reviewing the Group Assurance map: and 1 a significant contribution to the internal 5 reviewing the controls being put in place governance of the Group.
It was agreed as part of the business transformation that additional internal resource would programme.
be required to ensure that the function 4 continues to meet the Groups evolving 2 needs and further opportunities to improve communication, processes 3 and practices were identified and are being implemented.
1 Financial Reporting 28% 2 External Auditors 22% 3 Group Audit & Assurance 23% 4 Detailed Reviews of Key Topics 14% 5 Other 13% Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45
