Governance More online: Read more about governance at www.
com Directors attendance at Board UK Corporate Governance Code Matters reserved to the Board meetings The FRC published the UK Corporate Number of Governance Code the Code in May The schedule of matters reserved Directors as at Number of meetings 2010.
The Code, which has replaced the to the Board for decision includes 31 March 2012 meetings attended Combined Code on Corporate Governance, approval of: Sir Peter Gershon 6 6 is available on the Financial Reporting Javed Ahmed 6 6 Group strategy: Councils website, www.
As a Tim Lodge 6 6 annual budget and operating plans: UK company with a premium listing on the Liz Airey 6 5 major capital expenditure, London Stock Exchange, we are required William Camp 6 5 acquisitions or divestments: to state how we have applied the principles Evert Henkes 6 6 dividends: contained in the Code and to disclose full-year and half-year results and Douglas Hurt 6 6 whether we have complied with the interim management statements: Robert Walker 6 6 provisions of the Code during the year.
Board and Company Secretary Former directors Throughout the period from 1 April 2011 1 appointments: Dr Barry Zoumas 2 2 to 31 March 2012 the Company has been senior management structure and in full compliance with the Code.
1 Died on 14 August 2011. responsibilities: This report, which is structured to reflect the treasury policies: Dr Ajai Puri joined the Board on 1 April 2012 and is main headings of the Code, together with therefore excluded from the above analysis.
directors conflicts of interest: and the Directors Remuneration Report and the systems of internal control and risk All substantive agenda items have disclosures contained in the Risks section management.
comprehensive briefing papers circulated on pages 27 to 29, provide details of how five working days before the meeting.
the Company applies the principles and Directors access to information was complies with the provisions of the Code.
Board meetings enhanced during the year with the The core activities of the Board are implementation of an electronic Board Leadership undertaken in scheduled meetings of the portal which enables all directors to access The role of the Board Board and its Committees, the timing Board and Committee papers as soon as The Board is collectively responsible for of which is linked to key events in the they are issued and this also supports the promoting the success of the Company Companys corporate calendar.
Ad hoc Groups environmental goals.
and for providing entrepreneurial leadership meetings are also arranged to consider Meetings are structured to facilitate within a framework of prudent and effective matters requiring review and decision open discussion, and all directors controls that enable risk to be assessed outside the scheduled meetings.
Six participate in discussing strategy, trading, and managed.
It sets the Companys scheduled Board meetings were held during safety, financial performance and risk objectives, ensures that the Company the year ended 31 March 2012: one of the management.
Members of executive has the necessary financial resources Board meetings was held at the global management attend Board meetings and people to meet them, and reviews Commercial and Food Innovation Centre and make presentations regularly.
The Board also met offsite also sets the Companys values and for one day to focus on strategy.
During the year, the Chairman continued standards and ensures that its obligations to hold a short discussion with the In the few instances where a director is to shareholders and others are met.
non-executive directors collectively both unable to attend a meeting, his or her immediately before and after each There is a schedule of matters reserved to comments on the briefing papers are scheduled Board meeting.
Other responsibilities given in advance to the relevant Chairman.
are delegated to Board Committees, details Summary of the Boards work during The rolling programme of items for of which are given on pages 44 to 49.
The the year discussion by the Board, which has been directors responsibilities for the preparation During the year, the Board considered all in operation for a number of years, is of financial statements are explained in the matters within its remit, focusing in particular reviewed at each Board meeting and Directors Statement of Responsibilities on on the following: updated to reflect topical matters.
Their statement on going concern agreed to overhaul this programme as part safety: is on page 26. of the 2012 Board effectiveness review, reviewing the operations and details of which are on page 41. effectiveness of the Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients business units and the Innovation and Commercial Development group: Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39
