Governance Nominations Committee The Committee met five times during the Work undertaken during the year Dear Shareholder year.
Membership of the Committee and During the year and up to the date of this their attendance during the year were annual report, the work undertaken by the I am pleased to present the Nominations as follows: Nominations Committee included: Committees report on our activities Number of during the year.
Board composition Directors as at Number of meetings reviewing the successional needs of The Committee focused on two 31 March 2012 meetings attended the Board throughout the year.
As part of key areas during the year, namely Sir Peter Gershon 5 5 its ongoing review of Board composition, non-executive director recruitment and Javed Ahmed 5 5 the Committee had already commenced the Board diversity policy, as well as the Liz Airey 5 4 a selection process for an additional usual matters we review, such as Board William Camp 5 4 non-executive director with food science composition, succession planning and Evert Henkes 5 5 expertise prior to the untimely death the performance of members of the Douglas Hurt 5 5 of Dr Barry Zoumas in August 2011, Executive Committee.
Robert Walker 5 5 following which the scope of the role Early in the financial year, we began Former directors was revised to include chairmanship of 1 the process to select an additional Dr Barry Zoumas 1 1 the Research Advisory Group.
External non-executive director with food science search consultants, who in line with the 1 Died on 14 August 2011. expertise.
Following a structured search Boards stated policy, are signatories to process, details of which are outlined Dr Ajai Puri joined the Board on 1 April 2012 and is the Executive Search Firms Voluntary a member of the Nominations Committee.
As he did below, the Committee recommended Code of Conduct, were retained to assist not serve during the year under review, he is excluded that Dr Ajai Puri be appointed as both in the search.
A diverse candidate list from the above analysis.
non-executive director and Chairman of was presented and following a detailed The Committee has a formal calendar of the Research Advisory Group.
He joined selection process, the Committee items for consideration at each meeting the Board with effect from 1 April 2012. recommended that Dr Ajai Puri be and meets at least twice a year.
appointed as an additional non-executive We also addressed a key action arising director and Chairman of the Research from 2011 Board effectiveness review, Main responsibilities of the Advisory Group.
The recommendation namely developing a strategy on Board Nominations Committee was approved by the Board and diversity, which was subsequently Dr Ajai Puri joined the Board with approved by the Board.
As part of this The main responsibilities of the effect from 1 April 2012. process, the Committee, and the Board Committee include: as whole, discussed the Davies Report Board Diversity reviewing the size and composition on Women on Boards details of the developing a strategy on Board diversity of the Board, including succession Boards approach to Board composition which was subsequently approved by planning, and the leadership needs and diversity are on page 38. the Board: and of the Group generally: considering the recommendations of The Board and Committee effectiveness recommending candidates for the Davies Report on Women on Boards reviews indicated that the Committee appointment as executive and nonand the needs of the Tate & Lyle Board continued to function effectively during executive directors and as Company and preparing a formal statement on the the year, and identified some areas to Secretary, taking into account the Boards approach to Board composition focus on in the coming year, in particular balance of the Board and the and diversity, which was subsequently succession planning.
required blend of skills and agreed by the Board and published on experience, bearing in mind the Sir Peter Gershon the Companys website.
need for diversity: Chairman of the Nominations making recommendations on the Performance evaluation Committee processes for the appointment undertaking a performance evaluation of the Chairman of the Board: and of each of the members of the Group reviewing annually the performance Executive Committee and reporting its The Nominations Committee comprises of each member of the Group conclusions to the Remuneration the Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive Committee and reporting Committee.
Executive and all of the non-executive on that review to the Remuneration directors.
Its terms of reference, which are Nominations Committee effectiveness Committee.
reviewed annually, are available on the undertaking a review of effectiveness Companys website, www.
which concluded that the Committee was considered to be operating effectively while identifying a number of areas for focus, including succession planning.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47
