Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Corporate Governance The Board takes corporate governance very seriously.
This Report explains the processes in place for the delivery of long term success, compliance and shareholder value.
Dear shareholder I am very pleased to be able to take this opportunity again to make t An update to the Stewardship Code, published by the FRC: a personal statement on the Companys approach to corporate t Draft proposals from the Department of Business, Innovation and governance.
As mentioned earlier in this Annual Report, the Skills BIS to clarify and improve the reporting of executive pay: and Board takes corporate governance very seriously and this has been demonstrated over many years, with full compliance with t The Kay Review of the performance of the UK equity markets in the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and its enhancing company performance and investor returns.
Your Board welcomes these proposals and, in line with best practice This Report on Corporate Governance therefore sets out and explains and our previous approach to governance, has already adopted or in clear terms the processes in place which are essential for the delivery embraced, as appropriate, many of the New Code provisions and BIS of long term success whilst ensuring that we comply with all applicable proposals in this years reporting in advance of their formal introduction.
laws and regulations as well as, of course, meeting the requirements of Board evaluation our shareholders and their representative bodies.
The Board believes Following an externally facilliated 2011 Board evaluation carried out by that good governance should be focused not only on how the Board Egon Zehnder International, the 2012 Board evaluation was conducted itself operates but also how all our businesses operate.
internally by myself and the Company Secretary.
The evaluation In addition, this Report explains what your Board of Directors actually confirmed that the Board is effective and continues to work well as a does and describes how it is responsible for setting the values of the unit, but with good constructive challenge and debate.
It has managed Company, ensuring that the Company is run in the best interests of Board succession effectively with the appointment of a number of high our shareholders and other stakeholders, and how it interacts with quality directors over the past two to three years.
its shareholders in explaining the Companys strategic goals and The main action items coming out of the 2012 evaluation related to performance against them.
From a governance perspective it is not further developing our succession planning and our ambitions relating just a case of what is done but also and just as importantly, how it is to diversity.
Both of these key areas will remain rmly on the Boards done therefore, we try and avoid a simple box ticking approach, agenda during 2013.
More detail, including the ways in which the preferring our governance to be something that is embedded in findings of the 2011 review were addressed during the year, and the our processes and decision making.
process for the 2012 evaluation is set out on pages 33 and 34.
The A key part of my role as Chairman of the Board is to ensure that the Code requires the evaluation to be carried out via external facilitation Board retains an appropriate level of independence in order to allow once every three years and we will therefore look to do this in 2014. the independent Non Executive Directors to challenge the Executive Diversity constructively whilst also supporting them to implement the strategy Diversity has continued to be a key item on the overall UK governance and run the business effectively.
Another key part of my role is to agenda during 2012.
Within Taylor Wimpey, diversity has remained on ensure that the Board has the right blend of skill, independence and the Boards agenda and this will continue to be the case during 2013. knowledge and this is something that is kept under regular review Our ambitions and views on diversity are set out in our Diversity Policy in conjunction with the Nomination Committee.
which can be found on page 32 and on the Companys Web site: As a Board we regularly review health and safety, our strategy, risks, plc.
Although the the market, operational matters, human resources, our financial Board will continue to appoint on merit we recognise that boards will position and performance, governance and legal matters and our generally perform better when they include top quality people from a shareholders.
This is done through reports submitted by and range of backgrounds and perspectives.
Diversity will continue to be a discussions with the Executive Directors and through other reports key consideration when contemplating the composition and refreshing and presentations by our senior management.
The Board and its of the Board and indeed our senior and wider management.
We members also undertake visits to our regional businesses and also recognise that whilst the overall balance of gender is good within the to their development sites.
Group, with 32% of employees being female as at December 2012, we recognise that we still have more work to do in order to fulll our overall During 2012 there were a number of enhancements to good diversity ambitions.
governance, including: t An update to the Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2012 the New Code : 30 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 The Board consists of nine Directors two of whom are women Statement of compliance 22% and we will aspire to maintain at least this level of diversity For the year ended 31 December 2012, the Company complied with going forward consistent with our past practice, the Code and our all the provisions of the Code and with the provisions of the Disclosure response to the recommendations made by Lord Davies of Abersochs and Transparency Rules on Audit Committees and Corporate report on Women on Boards in 2011 Davies Report.
The Code is publicly available at www.
Appointments and succession We announced on 1 March 2013 that Baroness Dean of The Board and its Committees Thornton-le-Fylde Brenda Dean would be stepping down from As at the date of this Report, the Board consists of nine Directors, the Board immediately after the 2013 Annual General Meeting on namely: the Chairman, three Executive Directors and five Independent 25 April 2013 AGM broadly coinciding with her third three year Non Executive Directors.
Their names, responsibilities and other details term of ofce.
We also announced that Baroness Ford of Cunninghame appear on pages 28 to 29.
There have been no changes to the Margaret Ford will be appointed a Non Executive Director on composition of the Board since 1 January 2012.
25 April 2013 at the conclusion of the AGM.
Margaret Ford will The role of the Independent Non Executive Directors is to offer advice stand for election by shareholders to the Board at the 2014 and guidance to the Executive Directors, using their wide experience Annual General Meeting.
in business and from their diverse backgrounds.
They also provide a At the AGM, all Directors with the exception of Brenda Dean will again constructive challenge, scrutinising the performance of the Executive be subject to re-election by shareholders in accordance with the Code.
Directors and satisfying themselves as to the integrity of the financial Biographical details of each Director can be found on pages 28 to 29. information made available both to the Board and to the Companys shareholders.
The Non Executive Directors also play an important part Board Committees in the appointment or removal of Executive Directors and in general The Nomination Committee has been involved in not only refreshing succession planning for the Board and other top executive positions the Board but also ensuring that succession plans are in place or being immediately below Board level.
developed for all key positions throughout the Company.
Additional reporting on its activities, in line with the Code is set out on page 34.
The Board met on eight occasions during 2012.
Directors make every effort to attend all Board and applicable Committee meetings, as The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the draft proposals evidenced by the exceptional attendance records over several years.
from BIS referred to opposite and has decided to implement a Where, exceptionally, a Director is unable to attend a meeting, it is number of them in advance of their scheduled introduction.
It has also Board policy that the Chairman and or the Group Legal Director and continued to implement and measure the findings of the successful Company Secretary the Secretary will, as soon as possible, brief the Remuneration Review, carried out at all levels within the Group during Director fully on the business transacted at the meeting and on any 2011, more details of which are set out on page 45. and to engage decisions that have been taken.
In addition, the views of the Director with major shareholders and their representative bodies on key are sought ahead of the meeting and conveyed to those attending the remuneration matters.
meeting by the Chairman and or the Secretary as appropriate.
Details of the attendance of each Director at Board and Committee meetings The Audit Committee has continued to focus closely on the key area are set out in the tables on pages 32, 34 and 35. of risk management and internal controls so as to monitor closely our exposure to risks which could impact upon the future prospects of the The Board discharges its responsibilities by providing strategic and Company and achievement of its strategic objectives.
In line with the New entrepreneurial leadership of the Company, within a framework of Code, the Audit Committee has established processes so as to enable it controls and a culture of openness and transparency, which enables to satisfy and recommend to the Board that the information presented to opportunities and risks to be assessed and managed.
It sets the shareholders in this Report and Accounts is, as a whole, a fair, balanced Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial and and understandable assessment of our position and prospects.
human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
As ever, I very much look forward to meeting with shareholders at the AGM on 25 April 2013 and as always, along with all of your Directors, Our Board and Committee structure remain available to answer or respond to your questions, concerns and suggestions at any time.
Overall, I think your Board is effective and working well, and that we are in good shape on our governance, but as always we continually look for ways to learn and improve.
Yours sincerely Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Kevin Beeston Chairman Taylor Wimpey plc plc.
co. uk 31 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Corporate Governance continued The Board also receives regular reports and minutes from the Treasury Committee, under the chairmanship of the Group Finance Director, and Taylor Wimpey plc Board which also comprises the Secretary, the Group Treasurer and a UKH Divisional Chairman.
The key activities of the Treasury Committee are, broadly, to monitor and keep under review the Groups financial risks, financial policies, financial facilities and covenant compliance.
The following documents are available for review on the Companys Web site plc.
co. uk InvestorRelations CorporateGovernance: t schedule of matters specically reserved for the decision of the Board: t terms of reference of the Board Committees: Audit, Nomination and Kevin Beeston Remuneration, which outline their objectives and responsibilities and Chairman which define a programme of activities to support the discharge of those responsibilities: and Number of meetings in 2012 8 t Board policies covering operational, compliance, corporate responsibility and stakeholder matters, which are reviewed Directors Attendance whenever necessary to take account of developments in corporate Kevin Beeston governance, changes in legislation and revised processes.
Chairman 8 All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Secretary.
Pete Redfern The Board has an established procedure whereby Directors may take Chief Executive 8 independent professional advice at the Companys expense where they judge it necessary to do so in order to discharge their responsibilities Ryan Mangold as Directors.
Group Finance Director 8 The Board took advice during the year from  James Jordan LLP PwC on the details of an Enhanced Transfer Value offer made to Group Legal Director and Company Secretary 8 certain members of one of the Companys pension schemes and from Rob Rowley Slaughter and May on the proposed merger of the Groups two UK Senior Independent Director 8 pension funds, described in more detail in Note 20 to the Accounts Kate Barker on page 89.
Independent Non Executive Director 8 The Board also took advice during the year on dealing with issues Brenda Dean arising from the installation of extended gas ues by registered Gas Independent Non Executive Director 8 Safe engineers at certain of its developments following which a number of initiatives were implemented across the business so as to raise Mike Hussey awareness and minimise risk.
Independent Non Executive Director 7 The Board receives at each meeting a report from J. P. Morgan Tony Reading Cazenove on the sector and the relative performance of the Companys Independent Non Executive Director 8 share price.
Jefferies Hoare Govett attended the Board during the year in order to provide a detailed presentation on the industry, UK stock market and the wider economy.
The Board is responsible for dening and setting the Companys values All businesses and employees are expected to operate at all times to and standards which it does, amongst other things, through a number the highest standards of integrity and conduct in all matters concerning of policies and codes of conduct, and ensures that its obligations to its the Group.
Accordingly, there is a Code of Business Conduct, which shareholders and other stakeholders are clearly understood and met.
sets out the standard for individual dealings both internally and The Board is led in these respects by the Chairman, who ensures that externally.
Formal policies have been adopted, which set out the ethical the Board operates correctly, setting the culture and, by extension, framework within which all Taylor Wimpey companies are required to the culture of the Company in its operations and its dealings with undertake their business this includes Bribery Act compliance sign all stakeholders.
These policies are available for review on the Companys Web site plc.
As also set out in our 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report, the Board is fully committed to providing a safe place in which our employees and Board and Committee balance, diversity, independence sub-contractors can work, and that our customers can visit, and to high and effectiveness standards of environmental management.
The Board receives detailed It is the Companys policy, in line with the Code, that the composition reports on health, safety and environmental matters at each Board of the Board, proposed appointments to the Board, and succession meeting in respect of the Companys operations in the UK and Spain.
planning, are each based on merit, judged against objective criteria, whilst also having due regard to the benets of diversity, including Operational management of the Companys business is undertaken by gender, age, ethnicity, experience and thinking.
The Board also the Chief Executive who receives advice from the Group Management continues to recognise its responsibility to comply with the Team GMT.
The GMT is the most senior executive committee and, recommendations of the Davies Report and has stated that it will in addition to the Chief Executive, consists of the Group Finance aspire at least to maintain the current level of representation of Director, the Secretary, the Group HR Director, the Land and Planning women on the Board two out of nine, representing 22% of Directors.
Director and the two UK Housing UKH Divisional Chairmen.
32 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 The Nomination Committee, which is composed of a majority of relationships which could affect the Directors judgement.
A more Independent Non Executive Directors in line with the Code, oversees rigorous review took place with regard to those directors who had on behalf of the Board the identication, assessment and selection of completed more than six years service as a Non Executive Director.
candidates for appointment to the Board.
The Committee has a formal, The Chairman, at the time of his appointment on 1 July 2010, met rigorous and transparent process against objective criteria.
Typically the independence criteria as set out in the Code.
the process of appointment, prior to the decision of the Board, will include the engagement of recruitment consultants, interviews by In addition, and in line with the Code, the Chairman and the Senior the candidate with all members of the Board and the taking up of Independent Director, independent of each other, hold meetings at detailed references.
least annually with the Non Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
The Nomination Committee also guides the Board in regularly assessing whether the Board has the correct balance of expertise Performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and and in arranging orderly succession planning for appointments to the other functions Board and in respect of senior management across the Group.
As part The 2011 Board evaluation was externally facilitated by Egon Zehnder of this process, management below Board level is regularly provided International and was reported on in detail in last years Report.
The with access to the Board, including the opportunity to attend Board main action points arising from that exercise are set out below: Meetings and Board dinners in order to give presentations on t continue to improve the succession planning process: specialist topics and project work.
This continues to be reviewed by the Nomination Committee and the Board and Committee roles and responsibilities Board and the review includes all senior management and up and The work of each of the Board Committees Nomination, Remuneration coming talent amongst employees as well as Board level roles.
During and Audit is described later in this Report.
the year the Board had greater exposure to management and The Board has an established framework of delegated financial, employees including at Board dinners so as to facillitate a higher level commercial and operational authorities, which define the scope and of engagement and insight into the future pool of talent that exists powers of the Chief Executive and of operational management.
In line with the Code, the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman t the improvement of reporting to the Board in certain dened areas: and the Chief Executive have been clearly dened, set out in writing These areas included greater external benchmarking of the Companys and signed by Kevin Beeston and Pete Redfern.
performance: and more forward-looking data.
In order to assist Directors in complying with their duty to avoid conicts Financial reporting to the Board has been further improved and or possible conicts of interest, it is standard procedure that the Board includes additional comparative analysis and evaluation of strategic must first give its clearance to such potential conicts of interest which targets relative to the Companys performance.
would include directorships or other interests in outside companies and organisations following which, an entry is then made in the statutory t arranging for additional time to be devoted by the Board on strategy register which the Company maintains for this purpose.
and risk related matters: Whenever any Director considers that he or she is, or may be, The Board considers its strategic objectives regularly and has also interested in any contract or arrangement to which the Company introduced a post-capital review process.
Risk is kept under constant is or may be a party, the Director gives due notice to the Board in review and in addition is formally reviewed and monitored twice-yearly.
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Following the external facilitation of the 2011 evaluation, as described Articles of Association.
In such cases, unless allowed by the Articles, above, the Board determined that the 2012 evaluation process should any Director with such an interest is not permitted to participate in be conducted in-house.
The evaluation process was therefore carried any discussions or decisions relating to the contract or arrangement.
out by the Chairman and the Secretary and consisted of a bespoke During 2012 no such matters arose.
questionnaire which the Secretary sent individually to all Directors The Board undertakes a regular review of each Directors interests, for completion.
if any, outside of the Company and is satisfied that, in line with the The questionnaire focused on the performance of the Board, each of Code, all Directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the Company the three Board Committees, each Director by way of self-assessment to enable them to discharge their responsibilities as Directors effectively.
and also by way of a condential evaluation by the Chairman on each Where there have been any outside commitments, the Board is Director and nally the performance of the Chairman.
In line with the satisfied that they do not detract from the extent or quality of time Code, the questionnaire also had a separate section in respect of the which the Director is able to devote to the Company.
two Non Executive Directors who had completed more than six years The Code requires every Director to seek election or re-election, of service Brenda Dean and Tony Reading so as to enable the further as appropriate, at each years Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, evaluation of their independence.
In calculating the length of service, at the 2013 AGM, every Director, irrespective of the date of his or her time served on the board of George Wimpey Plc, prior to the merger appointment and the length of his or her service on the Board, will be with Taylor Woodrow plc in mid-2007, was taken into account.
submitted for re-election other than Brenda Dean, who will be standing The questionnaire required detailed consideration by each Director down at the conclusion of the AGM.
of the balance of skills: experience: independence: knowledge of Details of the resolutions to be proposed in this respect and supporting the Company: diversity: succession planning: gender: how the biographical details of the Directors appear in the Notice of Meeting on Board works as a unit: and other factors relevant to the Boards pages 112 to 119. effective operation.
As part of the 2012 Board Evaluation process the Board reviewed Once completed, the Secretary then collated all of the responses and re-afrmed that it considers each of the Non Executive Directors to the questionnaire and produced a summary in respect of each to be independent in character and judgement and that there are no performance area.
co. uk 33 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Corporate Governance continued The Chairman and the Secretary then reviewed the summaries in respect of each performance area and in respect of each Director Nomination Committee except those completed with regard to the Chairman in respect of which the process is set out below and then formally presented the Reports directly to the findings to the Board for discussion at the December Board meeting Taylor Wimpey plc Board on a non-attributable basis.
As part of the appraisal process the Chairman also discussed the evaluation on a one-to-one basis with each contributor as necessary.
A number of action points designed to increase the overall effectiveness of the Board came out of the 2012 performance Kevin Beeston evaluation and have either already been implemented or will be Chairman implemented during 2013 which include: t additional focus by the Board on the performance of the Companys Number of meetings in 2012 2 regional business units and operating divisions: Directors Attendance t greater involvement and contact between the Board and the Companys senior management and talent pool: Kevin Beeston 2 t the carrying out of further work and initiatives to further develop Kate Barker 2 the Companys strategy and progress to date on diversity: and Brenda Dean 2 t further work on succession planning.
Mike Hussey 2 These action points will be kept under regular review by the Board and Tony Reading 1 progress against them will be reported on in the 2013 Annual Report Pete Redfern 2 and Accounts.
Rob Rowley 2 As part of the 2012 process, the Non Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, undertook the evaluation of the Main Objective Chairmans performance.
The evaluation was based on a nonTo ensure there shall be a formal, rigorous and transparent attributable summary prepared by the Secretary on the feedback process for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, its received from the Non Executive Directors and Executive Directors in Committees and to other senior roles and to ensure effective response to the questionnaire.
The Secretarys summary was reviewed succession planning processes across the Group.
by the Non Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman, following which Rob Rowley in his capacity as the Senior Independent Director provided feedback direct to the Chairman.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and the Secretary meet sufciently in advance of each Board meeting in order to ensure action points from Information and professional development The Company has procedures whereby newly appointed Directors previous meetings have been implemented and to prepare the agenda and matters to be covered at the next and at future Board and including Non Executive Directors receive a formal induction.
This includes training and continuing familiarisation with the Companys Committee meetings as appropriate.
business, operations and systems, the principles underlying the Board Committees and their work discharge of their duties as Directors and wider issues relating to Nomination Committee the housing sector.
The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and is All Directors visit Group operations on a regular basis, engaging with composed of a majority of Non Executive Directors as required by employees at all levels in order to foster and maintain an understanding the Code.
Its members are set out in the table above.
Board visits are arranged each year to operations and out earlier in this Report, the Committee has procedures in place with during 2012, in addition to individual visits, the Board visited operations regard to maintaining a formal, rigorous and transparent process for in the Taylor Wimpey Yorkshire region over a three day period during Board appointments, ensuring that appointments to the Board are which regional presentations and a formal Board meeting took place, made on merit and assessed against objective criteria.
It guides the as well as site visits.
Board in regularly assessing whether there is a correct balance of expertise, reviewing progress towards compliance with the Davies The Group Legal Director and Company Secretary acts as Secretary Report and wider diversity considerations, and in arranging the orderly to the Board and its Committees and he attends all meetings.
It is succession for appointments to the Board and in respect of senior Board policy that wherever possible a formal agenda and reports are management across the Group.
A description of how appointments issued electronically to Directors in respect of all Board and Committee are typically made to the Board is set out on page 33. meetings one week prior to the meeting, in order to allow sufficient time for detailed review and consideration beforehand.
Formal minutes are The Board has adopted a policy on diversity which is available on the prepared in respect of all Board and Committee meetings and are then Companys Web site plc.
The Company actively circulated and submitted for approval at the next meeting.
embraces the business and local communities in which we operate and will strive to reect their richness and character to include such The Secretary provides regular briengs to the Board on regulatory and aspects as gender, race and religion but also diversity of thought, governance matters which are included as part of his formal regular background and experience.
The Company believes that everyone reporting to the Board.
34 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Reports directly to the Reports directly to the Taylor Wimpey plc Board Taylor Wimpey plc Board Rob Rowley Tony Reading Chairman Chairman Number of meetings in 2012 4 Number of meetings in 2012 2 Directors Attendance Directors Attendance Rob Rowley 4 Tony Reading 2 Kate Barker 4 Kevin Beeston 2 Tony Reading 4 Brenda Dean 2 Rob Rowley 2 Main Objective To assist the Board in fullling its corporate governance Main Objective responsibilities relating to the Groups internal control framework, To establish and maintain formal and transparent procedures for internal audit process, risk management, financial reporting developing policy on executive remuneration and for agreeing the practices and external audit process.
remuneration packages of individual Directors and senior executives and to monitor and report on them.
should have the right to equal access to employment and, when in our Audit Committee employ, to equal pay and access to training and career development.
The members of the Audit Committee are as set out above.
Details The Company is also committed to ensuring that our people are free of the Committees activities during 2012 are contained in the Audit from any direct or indirect discrimination, harassment or bullying.
The Company has put in place systems to measure and monitor Remuneration Committee and remuneration diversity around the Group more effectively.
Currently in addition to The Boards policy and approach to the setting of remuneration for Board diversity referred to above there is one woman out of seven Directors and senior executives and the activities of the Remuneration on the GMT 14% and one woman out of 24 Regional Managing Committee are described in detail in the Directors Remuneration Directors 4%.
Across the Group the Company employs approximately Report on pages 41 to 56.
The Committee is constituted in 1,185 women representing 33% of the workforce.
Of the new starters accordance with the Code and its members are set out above.
with the Company during 2012, 53% were women.
Within the The levels of remuneration are considered by the Committee to be Companys new mentor programme for the development of staff, sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Directors and other senior 48% of the participants are women.
management of the quality required to run the Company successfully, This detailed information on the types and extent of various forms of without being excessive.
A significant proportion of Executive Directors remuneration is linked to rewarding corporate and individual diversity around the Group, is taken into account when considering where recruitment, training and career development work is necessary, performance and there is linkage to effective risk management.
There is a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy with a view to ensuring that there is a suitable recruitment pool at all levels from which to increase diversity, where appropriate.
on executive remuneration, including shareholder consultation and professional advice, and for agreeing the remuneration packages of The Companys plans and progress in implementing its diversity individual Directors, none of whom is involved in deciding his or her policy, benchmarked against appropriate targets, are set out on own remuneration.
Progress is measured and monitored by the Nomination Committee and the Board.
The 2012 Remuneration Report has adopted a number of the draft BIS proposals in order to help to clarify and improve the reporting of The Committee met on two occasions during the year to consider executive pay, which the Committee welcomes.
detailed short and long term succession planning for Directors and key executives, together with appropriate development plans.
There were The Committee is chaired by Tony Reading and consists of three no changes in the composition of the Board during 2012.
Details of the Independent Non Executive Directors and also the Chairman of the attendance of each Director are set out in the table on page 34.
During the year the Remuneration Committee met on two occasions and details of the attendance of each Director are set out in the table on this page.
co. uk 35 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Corporate Governance continued Management The Board encourages all shareholders to participate in the Annual Progress in achieving the Group Strategy is reviewed at each Board General Meeting, which is attended by all Directors.
Shareholders meeting and is reported on page 9.
The Chief Executive has attention is drawn to the Notice of Meeting on page 112 which sets responsibility for preparing and reviewing strategic plans for the Group out details of the rights of shareholders in connection with the notice and the annual budgetary process.
These are subject to formal of, and participation in, general meetings of the Company.
Information about the Company, including full year and half year results Budgets are re-examined in comparison with business forecasts and other major announcements, and additional information about throughout the year to ensure they are sufciently robust to reect the shareholder facilities, is published on the Companys Web site possible impact of changing economic conditions and circumstances.
co. uk The Chief Executive and the Board conduct regular reviews of actual This 2012 Annual Report and Accounts results and future projections with comparison against budget and prior Your Directors have responsibility for preparing this 2012 Annual Report year, together with various treasury reports.
Disputes that may give rise and Accounts and for making certain conrmations concerning it.
In to significant litigation or contractual claims are monitored at each accordance with the Code provision C. 1.1 the Board considers that, meeting of the Board with specic updates on any material taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides developments or new matters.
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys The Group has clearly dened policies, processes and procedures performance, business model and strategy.
governing all areas of the business, which will continue to be reviewed The Board reached this conclusion after receiving advice from the and rened in order to meet the requirements of the business and Audit Committee.
Dened authority limits continue to be closely monitored in response to prevailing market conditions.
Any The Board also notes Provision C. 1.1 of the New Code which investment, acquisition or significant disposal of land requires detailed will apply to the 2013 Financial Year and has been mindful when appraisal and is subject to approval by the Board or the Chief Executive, considering the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts that going forward, depending on the value and nature of the investment or contract.
the Companys Annual Report and Accounts will be required to be prepared in a fair, balanced and understandable way as a whole to There is a clearly identiable organisational structure and a framework shareholders in order to comply with the New Code.
of delegated authority approved by the Board within which individual responsibilities of senior executives of Group companies are identied and can be monitored.
These activities are reinforced through process compliance and other audits conducted by Internal Audit.
The annual employee performance appraisal process is objectivebased, with individual objectives cascaded down from the appropriate business objectives.
Reviews identify training needs to support achievement of objectives.
Relations with shareholders The Board actively seeks and encourages engagement with major institutional shareholders and other stakeholders and supports the initiatives set out in the Code and the Stewardship Code which aim to foster a more pro-active governance role by major shareholders.
The Board has put in place arrangements designed to facilitate contact about business, governance, remuneration and other issues.
This provides the opportunity for meetings with the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director as well as the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary and other executives, in order to establish a mutual understanding of objectives.
The Company also operates a structured programme of investor relations, based on formal announcements and publications covering the full year and half year results.
All Directors receive formal reports and briengs during the year about the Companys investor relations programme and receive detailed feedback through surveys, direct contact and other means, through which they are able to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the Company.
36 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
