Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Audit Committee Report We continue to focus on strengthening all elements of the Groups governance framework.
As a Committee we support the Board in fullling its responsibilities relating to the Groups internal control framework, internal audit process, risk management, financial reporting practices and external audit process.
In 2012 the Company has Dear shareholder t Fully embedded a robust risk management framework across all operational businesses and all corporate activities.
I am pleased to be able to take this opportunity as Chairman of the Audit Committee to summarise the ongoing objectives and t Reviewed the Whistleblowing policy, processes and reporting responsibilities of the Committee and the work that has been carried to ensure best practice across the Group.
out during 2012. t Established a Steering Committee to oversee all aspects of Following a review in July 2012 it was determined that the terms policy and processes governing the review of the Extended of reference of the Audit Committee remain valid and no significant Gas Flues issue.
A key requirement of the Audit Committee is that it should evaluate its performance against its key t Reviewed the implementation of the 1B1S ERP system One objectives on an annual basis.
The 2012 performance against Business One System, being rolled out across the UK operating objectives was formally assessed at the meeting of 25 February 2013. business that commenced in 2012, including the review of the effectiveness of the project management and the impact on the During 2012 the Audit Committee met with the management team overall control environment of the business.
of the pilot business unit for the new 1B1S ERP system along with the Project Team, to ensure that we were satisfied with the processes t Reviewed the Internal Audit Planning and Methodology following the and plans in place.
As a Plc Board, we visited a business unit that had implementation of the new 1B1S ERP system that will be operational been using the new system for a period of time to obtain feedback across all our business units during 2013 and, as a result of the new and conrmation that there were no significant issues with utilising the processes and procedures, will require a new approach to our system from an operational point of view.
I am pleased to confirm that Internal Audit process and risk management.
there are no significant issues and that the rollout of the system Highlights for 2012 continues to plan.
t Fully embedded a robust risk management framework across the A key priority for 2013 is to ensure that, once the 1B1S ERP system whole business.
has been completed, as an organisation we can maximise the benets t Review by Internal Audit in relation to the Extended Gas Flues issue and ensure continuous improvement supported by a targeted Internal including a thorough review of all developments and the close out of Audit approach to auditing in the new environment.
The Committee will continue to focus on ensuring that all the relevant codes and regulations are in place to ensure that the business is Priorities for 2013 operating in a controlled and managed environment.
t Ensure common processes are embedded across all businesses in order to support and gain maximum benets from the completed ERP system.
Yours sincerely t Introduce the new Internal Audit approach to auditing in the new ERP environment across all businesses.
Rob Rowley Chairman of the Audit Committee Taylor Wimpey plc plc.
co. uk 37 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Audit Committee Report continued Audit Committee and auditors of the Companys developments.
In order to support the Companys The Audit Committee is chaired by Rob Rowley.
All members response to the issue, across all businesses, Internal Audit undertook of the Committee are Independent Non Executive Directors as a comprehensive review so as to ensure compliance with a number of required by the Code.
The Board has determined that Rob Rowley, instructions relating to EGFs.
The Audit Committee received regular who currently chairs the Audit Committee at both Intu Properties plc updates throughout the period.
com Group PLC, has recent and relevant External auditor financial experience as required by the Code.
The Chairman of the Deloitte LLP is the Companys external auditor and will be proposed for Company and other Non Executive Directors, the Chief Executive, re-appointment at the 2013 AGM.
Their performance is kept under Group Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit and other senior regular review by the Board and the Audit Committee.
executives attend Committee meetings by invitation.
Deloitte LLP, the external auditor, is also invited to attend Committee meetings.
Deloitte was the external auditor of Taylor Woodrow plc at the time The Committee also meets privately with representatives from Deloitte of the merger with George Wimpey Plc in 2007.
Shortly following the LLP during at least two Committee meetings per annum, which merger, a formal competitive tender process was carried out with normally take place around the time of the Full and Half Year financial regard to the appointment for the 2008 audit, following which Deloitte statements, in order to discuss any matters which the auditors may was selected as external auditor to the Company.
The Company notes wish to raise without any Executive Directors other than the Secretary that one of the provisions of the New Code states that FTSE 350 being present.
companies should put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
The Company also notes the guidance issued by the During the year the Audit Committee met on four occasions.
Details FRC by way of transitional arrangements.
Therefore, having gone out of the attendance of each Director are set out in the table on page 35. to tender since 2000 i. e. in 2007 2008 the Company intends to defer The meetings around the full and half year results are typically also tendering until completion of the next partners rotation in 2019 but will full and half attended by the Non Executive Directors who are not of course keep the matter under regular review taking into account members of the Committee.
performance as well as other relevant factors.
There are no contractual The Committees remit includes reviewing the internal control restrictions on the Companys selection of its external auditor.
framework, the internal audit process, risk management, the Appointment of the auditor for non-audit services financial reporting practices, the external audit process and The Audit Committee has an approved policy on whether to recommending to the Board whether to re-appoint the external employ the external auditor to provide services other than audit auditors.
It ensures that the Board regularly assesses business risks services.
This policy requires that there should be a competitive including their management and mitigation.
In doing so, the Committee tender process except in narrowly dened circumstances where places reliance on regular reports from executive management, Internal it is considered that, based on condentiality, past knowledge and Audit and the external auditors.
In monitoring the financial reporting other commercial reasons, there is an advantage in using a single practices the Audit Committee reviewed accounting policies, areas tender procurement procedure.
of judgement, the going concern assumptions and compliance with accounting standards and the requirements of the Code.
During the The Committee has determined that the following assignments should year the Committee reviewed, prior to publication, the Full and Half not be undertaken by the auditors: Year financial statements and other statements affecting the Group t bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records concerning price sensitive information as necessary.
The Committee or financial statements: will also be further considering Provision C. 1.1. of the New Code which will require future Annual Reports and Accounts, taken as a whole, to t internal audit outsourcing services: be presented in a fair, balanced and understandable way so as to t the provision of advice on large Information Technology systems: and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
t services connected with valuation, litigation support, legal, recruitment or remuneration.
In addition, the other significant issues considered by the Committee during 2012 and to date were: The Board is satisfied that this policy is conducive to the maintenance of auditor independence and objectivity.
1B1S: in November 2011 the Company commenced a programme of updating its business systems.
The process, which is due to be Non-audit services in 2012 and 2011 predominantly relate to work completed in June 2013, represented a significant change to the undertaken as a result of Deloittes role as auditors, or work resultant internal control environment.
The Audit Committee has received from knowledge and experience gained as part of the role.
Other regular briengs on the progress of this project and Internal Audit assurance services related to advisory services relating to pension has undertaken a series of detailed reviews into these revised liability management consultation.
The services in 2011 included business practices.
necessary work related to certain attest services in relation to the interested party offers for the North American business.
The work was Extended Gas Flues: as noted on page 19, an issue was identied either the subject of a competitive tender or was best performed by the during the year which related to the previous installation by independent Groups auditors because of their knowledge of the Group.
Tax services Gas Safe registered engineers of extended gas ues EGFs at certain included advisory services for Taylor Wimpey plc and its subsidiaries.
38 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 The Audit Committee fully recognises and supports the importance Risk Management and Internal Control of the independence of auditors.
It is satisfied that the carrying out The Group has established an ongoing process of risk management of the above work would not impair the independence of the external and internal control applying principle C2 of the Code.
The Board is auditor and recognises that from time to time, there is a clear responsible for the effectiveness of the system of internal control, which commercial advantage based on cost and timetable requirements in has been designed and implemented to meet the requirements of the using the Companys auditors.
As a result of a reduction in the overall Group and the risks it encounters.
level of major strategic corporate level project work, the level of Internal Control is managed according to a framework which consists non-audit services work signicantly reduced from 1.2m in 2011 of clearly dened processes and objectives which are assigned to to 0.3m in 2012. individuals.
This framework defines the way the Company operates Internal Audit and how it is managed on a day-to-day basis.
In the Group UK this The Internal Audit function reviews the effectiveness and efficiency is achieved through an established Operating Framework supported of the systems of internal control in place to safeguard the assets, by functional manuals covering the main disciplines.
Compliance with to quantify, price, transfer, avoid or mitigate risks and to monitor the policies, processes and procedures is required to ensure business activities of the Group in accomplishing established objectives.
effectiveness and efficiency see Management on page 36.
Every Following each review an Internal Audit report is provided to both employee is required to comply with Group policies and specic the management responsible for the area reviewed and the Group responsibilities and accountabilities are identied at each process level, Management Team GMT.
These reports outline Internal Audits yet the governance framework supports and encourages, individual opinion of the management control framework in place together and team initiatives.
The control framework in place establishes with actions indicating improvements proposed or made as procedures to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks faced by appropriate.
The Chief Executive, the GMT and senior management the Group.
These procedures manage rather than eliminate the risk of consider the reports on a regular basis and are responsible for failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable ensuring that improvements are made as agreed.
A database of and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
audit recommendations and improvement initiatives is maintained.
The successful management of risk is essential to enable the Group Follow-up and escalation processes ensure that such improvements to deliver on its strategic priorities.
The risk management framework are implemented and fully embedded in a timely manner.
consists of risk registers at all organisational levels which detail the risks We belong to and participate in industry-wide forums and other faced by the Group, its operating companies and the central service teams.
The registers identify key operational and financial risks while initiatives aimed at combating fraud within the construction industry.
strategic risks are identied as part of the business planning process Summaries of all key Internal Audit review and activity and resulting although it is expected that strategic risks will be included on risk reports are provided to the Audit Committee for review and discussion.
The risk registers take into account the signicance of environmental, social and governance matters of the Company The Internal Audit function also reviews proposed related party and use a standardised methodology for the assessment of risk.
transactions, such as purchases by executives from Group companies, to ensure proper procedures are followed and that such procedures This methodology requires each risk identied to be assessed and are undertaken in accordance with the formal policy in place.
ranked according to a risk matrix which accounts for the likelihood and impact of each risk.
The risks identied are assessed for potential The most recent independent formal evaluation of the Internal Audit effect on the Companys short and long term value.
The completion of function was carried out on behalf of the Audit Committee during 2011 risk registers is iterative and refreshed on an ongoing basis.
The risk by PwC and its nding was that Internal Audit is operating effectively.
registers feed into a formal half yearly risk assessment that identies A number of initiatives were progressed during 2012 to ensure the the principal risks see pages 12 to 13 and allows the Board to Internal Audit function continues to meet both current best practice re-evaluate the identied strategic risks facing the Group.
and the evolving needs of the Group.
The Internal Audit Charter, which The Board oversees the risk and control framework of the Group codifies the aims, modus operandi and outputs of Internal Audit, was and the Chief Executive is responsible for implementing any necessary reviewed for ongoing appropriateness.
Following this assessment of improvements with the support of the GMT.
The Board conducts control and process risk and how that assessment inuences Internal formal risk reviews half-yearly, consistent with the Code, and the Audit review priorities was updated and enhanced to ensure alignment GMT conducts a more detailed review as part of the business with the Groups risk management framework and to allow for the planning process.
impact of the implementation of the integrated ERP system which is in progress.
In compliance with the Code, the Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in providing a The Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Chairman of the responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
The Boards monitoring Audit Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and covers all controls, including financial, operational, compliance and the other Executive Directors.
assurance controls which include risk management.
During the first half of 2012 the Internal Audit team supported the work being carried out to establish which developments in each Region should be addressed and ensuring that all processes were correctly followed and closed out.
co. uk 39 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Audit Committee Report continued This process is based principally on reviewing reports from Going concern management to consider whether significant risks are correctly The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on managed and controlled as part of managing the Groups a going concern basis and on a historical cost basis except as operations.
The Board is assisted in the assessment of risks by otherwise stated in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial the Audit Committees review of risk management procedures for Statements on pages 67 to 101. appropriateness and effectiveness see Audit Committee remit The Taylor Wimpey plc Groups the Group business performance page 38.
Throughout 2012 and into 2013 the Audit Committee and position, along with the significant factors that are likely to inuence continued to assess the Groups risk management and internal its future activities are set out in the Chief Executives Review on control framework by reviewing the business change issues and pages 6 to 14.
Internal Audit activities across the Group.
The Group has recorded profits in the current year and has maintained At its half year and year end meetings the Board reviewed the risk its drawn debt facilities at the reduced level achieved following the prole of the Group and the mitigating factors identied with the disposal of the North America business in 2011.
At the year end meeting in February 2013 following signed an agreement with Prudential M&G UK Companies Financing the annual review by the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of Fund LP to extend our existing 100 million term loan, giving us the internal controls and a formal half year assessment of risk, which option to extend the loan for a further 5.5 years to mature in November included a detailed risk assessment by the GMT, the Board completed 2020.
This extension is subject to redemption of the 10.375% Senior its annual assessment of risks for the year end 31 December 2012.
Notes due 2015, prior to 30 June 2015 of which 149.4 million The key risks affecting the Group were identied and agreed with the currently remains outstanding.
Board together with processes for their elimination or mitigation and actions required to reduce the likelihood of each risk to the Company The Group is still reliant on external debt nancing and has to meet all and the Group.
the covenant measures included in its debt facilities.
The Group has also prepared forecasts, with certain sensitivities, for a period of at least A detailed review of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the 12 months from the date of signing these financial statements, and as Group is set out in the Business Review: See Principal Risks and such, whilst market conditions have stabilised, there continues to be Uncertainties on pages 12 to 13. certain risks, including mortgage availability and weakened demand Whistleblowing due to market environment.
However, the Directors are satisfied that The Groups whistleblowing policy is supported by a clear process the Group will be able to continue to operate within the available that includes an externally facilitated hotline through which any person, nancing facilities for at least the next 12 months from the date of including employees of the Company, may, in confidence, raise signing these financial statements.
concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting, other Accordingly the consolidated financial statements have been prepared operational matters or inappropriate personal behaviours in the work on a going concern basis.
All whistleblowing cases are investigated by the Head of Internal Audit, Group Health and Safety Director where appropriate, Group Human Resources Director and or the Secretary depending on the nature and seriousness of the issue.
The Chief Executive is apprised of all allegations and review conclusions.
Whistleblowing incidents and their outcome are reported to the Audit Committee.
Whistleblowing is a standing item on each Audit Committee agenda, which allows the Committee to regularly review the adequacy of the policy in line with its requirement to do so under the Code.
During the year a number of initiatives took place to raise the prole of the whistleblowing service.
These initiatives included a full review of the process and related reporting by both the Group Management Team and the Audit Committee to ensure ongoing appropriateness and effectiveness.
40 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
