Report of the Audit Committee Membership of the Audit Committee The UK Code provides that all members of the Committee should be independent non-executive Directors.
Independent non-executive Director with month of appointment to Committee Simon Batey Chairman October 2007 Simon Batey Audit Committee Chairman John OReilly Maurizio Carli The integrity of the Groups financial results October 2007 May 2011 andthe effectiveness of its risk management and internal control systems are important both toDirectors and to shareholders.
They are also critical to the way the Groups business is Sahar Elhabashi May 2011 operated as they are required to measure and to sustain achievement of its strategic objectives.
The Chairman, whose biography is included on page 41, has recent and relevant financial experience from a number of finance director As the Audit Committee, we assist the Board in its oversight and and audit committee roles: monitoring of financial reporting, risk management and internal controls.
We test and challenge these areas in conjunction with management and The Group Finance Director and other senior members of financial the internal and external auditors as appropriate.
management attend and present at meetings other than during private discussions between the Committee and the Auditors : In this report, I summarise our activities in 2012.
Representatives of the external Auditors attend and present atmeetings other than during discussions regarding their Developments during the year performance : and In the past year, along with the management team, we: The internal Auditor also attends and presents at meetings.
Introduced a new Code of Ethics, providing a reference point for thehigh standard of conduct we expect from all our Directors and employees in the operation of the Groups business: Specic objectives achieved in 2012 Stayed focussed on the Committees top priorities of financial Instigated a process for the ongoing monitoring of, and training in, the reporting and related internal control risk: Groups anti-bribery policy: Continued to monitor accounting judgements and estimates: Established a whistleblowing hotline through an external company to provide an additional method for employees to report any suspected Considered whether the financial statements and disclosures wrongdoing, anonymously should they so wish: toldthe Companys story: Increased the activities of our Internal Auditor including in reviews Aimed to cut any verbiage from the Annual Report: ofrisk management in the Groups operations, of Group systems and Monitored regulatory initiatives on auditor independence and ofrecently acquired businesses: transparency, and considered the implications for the Audit Reviewed Group tax matters with management: Committee: and Refreshed our process for the review of annual reports, which I Reviewed Group tax matters.
summarise in the next section: and Achieved a further reduction in non-audit work performed by the Specic objectives for 2013 Auditors on which I comment further on page 49.
Continue to stay focussed on the Committees top priorities ofnancial reporting and related internal control risk: Public reporting Continue to monitor accounting judgements and estimates As a Committee, we review and comment on both the financial andprepare for any accounting changes: information and non-financial information in the Groups Annual Reports Continue to consider whether the financial statements prepared by management.
Our timetable for this is included on the anddisclosures told the Companys story: Committees calendar on page 48. Review the Groups initiative to improve consistency in the As shown on the calendar, we meet as a Committee three times per year.
recordingof risks and the actions to manage them: and Ahead of each meeting, I discuss relevant accounting matters with the Group Finance Director and his senior team.
I also discuss relevant audit Review internal audit effectiveness in line with the Chartered matters in advance with our audit partner.
This helps me to lead focussed Instituteof Internal Audit requirements.
and informed discussions of agenda items with my Committee colleagues at our meetings.
One purpose of our reviews is to confirm that the information in the Annual Report presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Indeed, even in the years before UK Code Principle: the recent guidance placing additional emphasis on this, the Group The board should present a fair, balanced and understandable enhanced its disclosures in these and other respects.
A particular assessment of the companys position and prospects.
example of these improvements is the explanation of the Groups Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 47 Report of the Audit Committee continued Audit Committee calendar for 2012 February March April May June August September November December January July October Annual results, including Half year results including Consideration of plans for consideration of: consideration of: preparation of the annual results, Report of the Group Finance Report of the Group Finance including: Director Director Report of the Group Finance Director Report of the Auditors Report of the Auditors Report of the Auditors Going concern Draft results announcement Review of Results of formal assurance Draft investor presentation non-audit work by and fees to process for non-financial data Recommendation to the Board Auditors and policy on these Draft Annual Report onthe results Plans to enhance review of Draft results announcement Enhancement of whistleblowing non-financial as well as financial arrangements Draft investor presentation sections of Annual Report by Review of Committee Review of risk management and Implementation of new financial internal control Plans for systems-based internal reporting system audit functionality Performance and independence Addressing of external Auditors of the external Auditors Report on meeting with country internal control observations management on risk management Meeting with the Auditors in Non-audit work by the Auditors and insurance arrangements absence of management Review of Annual Internal audit report and plans Recommendations to the Boardon: The annual results Re-appointment of the Auditors New Group wide Code of Ethics Reviews of financial reporting, Reviews of reports on: Consideration of internal audit: Reviews of: including: Risk management Reports Minutes of previous meetings Any proposed changes to Risk registers Plans Reports on implementation of accounting policies actions from previous meetings Internal control Review of implementations Key assumptions, judgements ofobservations andestimates proposed by management Developments in reporting and accounting requirements affecting the Group business model this year included on pages 10 to 23.
To assist with this detailed review and comment by the Board as a whole rather than at process, wereceive and comment on a first draft of the Annual Report specic Audit Committee Meetings.
We consider this approach before the year end.
appropriate in view of the limitedamount of financial information contained in the Groups InterimManagement Statements, and the We see this process of improvement as an ongoing journey on which thorough review process undertaken by the Board.
theGroup will continue to travel.
Nonetheless, we believe this Annual Report is indeed telling the story of the Company, in the way envisaged Further information regarding the preparation of the Group accounts by the UK Codes new recommendations which will apply to the isincluded in the Directors Report commencing on page 96.
Together with management, we set ourselves an objective over Internal control and risk management framework and thelastcouple of years of cutting verbiage from our annual reports.
procedures Whilstrisingto this task, we have found the Group, along with all other The key elements of the Groups internal financial control framework public companies, subject to additional disclosure requirements and andprocedures are set out in the table at the top of the next page.
recommendations, which have sometimes been more challenging than Areview of the Groups system of risk management commences helpful to the process.
We see unnecessary or excessive information onpage28.
asdetracting rather than contributing to an understanding of the Group.
Through the processes outlined: We hope that this Annual Report strikes the right balance for the majority of readers and shall continue to resist the pressure for ever more lengthy, Areas for enhancement of internal controls and risk management yet often less comprehensible, annual reports.
areidentied: As a Committee, we also review the Groups half year results prior to Action plans to deliver such enhancements are devised: and publication in a similar way as for the full year results.
We review the Delivery is then monitored by management and by us as a Committee.
Groups twice yearly Interim Management Statements as part of their 48 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 At specic meetings At each main meeting The key elements of the Groups internal financial control framework and procedures include: The close involvement of the executive Regular meetings of the Board and Audit Production of accurate, relevant and timelynancial information by each Directors, including regular meetings with Committee at which financial information ofthecountries: thesenior management team to review isreviewed and business risks are reported operational aspects of the business: upon and monitored: and Safeguarding of the Groups assets Clearly dened responsibilities and limits Reviews by the Groups internal Auditor throughphysical controls and segregation ofauthority, including a schedule of matters ofspecic areas of operations selected in ofduties: and that are required to be brought to the Board consultation with the Audit Committee.
Proactive risk identication and for decision: Reports of the results of these reviews mitigationthough appropriate monitoring A comprehensive Group-wide system of arediscussed with the Chairman of the and controls.
financial reporting, budgeting and cash AuditCommittee and presented to and A review by the Audit Committee and the forecasting and control through which considered by the Audit Committee.
Board of the effectiveness of the Groups risk financial accounts are prepared and The main aims of the internal audit reviews management and internal control systems submitted to the Board monthly: are to ensure the: isundertaken atleast annually.
Regular preparation and, when appropriate, Operation of an effective system of update of profit and cash ow forecasts, internal control being maintained at Group tomonitor actual against expected and country levels: performance: We review such matters at each meeting and consider that none The fees paid for these other services during the year represented 28% oftheareas identied for enhancement during the year constituted 2011: 50% of the fees paid for the statutory audit and audit-related asignicant failing or weakness for the Group.
Excluding the audit-related assurance services, they represented 37% 2011: 99% of the statutory audit fee.
In addition, members of the Committee assist in providing input to Further details of these amounts are included in note 8 of the accounts.
management outside meetings when the occasion arises.
For example, during 2012, I met with operational management on a number of As a Committee, we welcome the substantial reduction of these occasions to review the governance processes involved in the proportions over the past years, and are satisfied that the work construction of one of the Groupskey new data centres.
undertaken by the Auditors with the safeguards they have in place hasnot threatened their overall independence.
We consider that the information that we receive as a Committee is sufficient to enable us to review the effectiveness of the Groups risk We have a policy so that, before any former employee of the external management and internal controls.
These accord with the guidance of Auditors may be employed by the Group, careful consideration must be the Turnbull Committee.
Of course, they manage rather than eliminate given as to whether the independence ofthe Auditors will be adversely affected, and our approval is required.
This particular circumstance has the risk of not achieving business objectives.
Whilst they cannot provide not yet arisen.
absolute assurance, we believe they provide reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The rotation of our external audit personnel accords with their professional guidelines and our current audit partner is being replaced Maintenance of the independence of the external Auditors under these guidelines during 2013.
Whilst we do not consider it We have developed procedures relating to the provision of non-audit necessary to have a policy for rotation of external audit rms, services by the Groups external Auditors.
Under these procedures, consideration is periodically given to placing future audits out to tender, as was done in 2008.
In reaching our recommendation to the Board for non-audit work and the fees involved require approval by the Audit theannual re-appointment of the external Auditors, we reviewed their Committee, after taking account of any potential risk of a conict of performance and effectiveness in the past year.
interest arising then or in the future.
This is subject to fide minimis amountsof routine work involving fees of no more than 10,000 which On behalf of the Audit Committee maybe necessary between Committee meetings that are then reportedat our next meeting.
In 2011, the Companies Act introduced two discrete classications of non-audit work provided by statutory auditors: audit-related assurance services and other services.
Audit-related assurance services include work required by law or regulation, for example review of interim financial Simon Batey statements, which would normally be performed by the statutory Chairman of the Audit Committee auditors.
They also include extended audit work that is integrated intothestatutory audit.
12 February 2013 During the year, the audit-related assurance services provided by the Auditors to the Group mainly comprised the review of the half year results and assurance in respect of the implementation of IT systems.
Other services performed by the Auditors in 2012 related mainly to general taxadvice.
UK Code Principle: UK Code Principle: The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
considering how they should apply the corporate reporting and risk Theboard should maintain sound risk management and internal management and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditor.
Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 49
