Report of the Nominations Committee Membership of the Nominations Committee The UK Code provides that independent non-executive Directors should comprise the majority of the Committee Board Chairman independent on appointment Independent non-executive Director with month of appointment to the Committee John Hughes Chairman Oct 2007 John Hughes, CBE Nominations Committee Chairman John OReilly Simon Batey Oct 2007 Senior Having an appropriate range of high calibre Independent Director Directors on our Board is key to determining Oct 2007 andmaximising success in the Groups strategicobjectives on an ongoing basis.
Havingappropriate succession planning for Sahar Elhabashi Maurizio Carli theBoard and senior management is essential April 2012 April 2012 toensuring that this success can be sustained over the long term.
The Chief Executive officer normally also attends meetings although this would not be the case if the Committee was discussing matters in connection with the appointment of a successor : As the Nominations Committee, we assist the Board in the key areas of composition and succession planning for the Board and the senior The Group Director of Human Resources may also attend and give management of the Group.
In this report, I summarise our work.
presentations at meetings: and The Chairman would not chair any meeting in connection with the Appointment of Directors appointment of a successor.
All our non-executive Directors were selected through externally facilitated recruitments, as was I as Chairman of the Board.
All are Specic objectives achieved in 2012 independent, as was I on appointment although under the UK Code, Ongoing development of succession planning including for the Iamnot considered to be independent after appointment as Chairman.
Chairman and non-executive Directors: Ibelieve this has created a diverse group of non-executive Directors able, along with our two executive Directors, to provide the required range of Reviewed the procedures for monitoring and setting objectives for skills, knowledge and experience to the Board.
increased diversity in the Group: and Biographies of all Directors are included Reviewed talent assessment and management in the Group including on pages 40 and 41 identication of and opportunities for good performers.
The progressive appointment of Directors over past years has assisted in refreshing the membership of our Board as shown in the length of tenure Specic objectives set for 2013 of Directors diagram at the bottom of the next page.
This has similarly Ongoing development of succession planning: enabled us to refresh the membership of our Committees for which we Ongoing monitoring of objectives for increased diversity in the Group: have this year shown months of appointment in the introductory sections of their reports.
Following initial three-year terms, we review the terms of Review talent assessment and management in the Group including our non-executive Directors annually, in line with their annual retirement outside top management: and under the UK Code, as we did most recently at our December meeting Review of organisational and people development generally, and how in2012.
this should progress over time.
Letters of appointment of our non-executive Directors set out the time commitments normally required, as does mine for my role as Chairman.
Such time commitments can involve peaks of activity at particular times and we are all exible in managing these.
We notify the Board of any significant changes to our other commitments before they arise.
Ourletters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce and our Annual General Meeting AGM.
Future appointments to the Board will also be externally facilitated following a process similar to that employed for the appointments we made in 2011.
This was summarised in our report in last years Annual Report which can be viewed on the Companys website.
We will report on it again inother years when appointments are made, as we intend to do in 2013, having commenced a recruitment process towards the end of2012.
UK Code Principles: There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board.
All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the company todischarge their responsibilities effectively.
56 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Nominations Committee calendar for 2012 January March April May June July September November December February August October Updates on succession planning Reviews of: Reviews of: Consideration of recruitment for: Update on executive Director Executive team succession ofan additional non-executive and senior management team planning and development Director, including: Executive Directors succession planning Equality assurance plan, Determination of candidate Other senior management Committee report for inclusion including: specication Non-executive Directors, in in Annual Report Group policies and practices Selection of Heidrick & particular those on Board for Results of Committee that support diversity Struggles to assist with this five years evaluation The skills gap in the Review of results of Board Committee objectives for technology sector generally Evaluation recommendation to the Board Ongoing actions in 2012 Recommendation to the Board on proposals for reappointment The composition of the Board of Directors going forward Update on plans for Agreement for an external appointment of an additional Board evaluation to be carried non-executive Director out the following year Initial consideration of 2013 Agreement to review plans of and Committee objectives for the non-executive Directors who had been on the Board for fiveyears Reviews of: Minutes of previous meetings Reports on actions agreed at previous meetings Maurizio Carli and Sahar Elhabashi.
The review included consideration Re-election of Directors ofthe roles we as individuals hold and discussion with us regarding our All our Directors retire at every AGM under the UK Code.
If decided appropriate by the Board, Directors may be proposed for re-appointment personal plans.
Having considered matters, the Committee is of the view by shareholders.
In reaching its decision, the Board acts on our advice as that the interests of the Company and its shareholders are best served by the Nominations Committee, taking account of the results of our 2012 there being no changes to these roles for the time being.
The Committee Board evaluation summarised on page 58. will keep them under review.
This year, we intend to propose all Directors for re-appointment.
Mycolleagues are each a key member of the Board, bringing valuable Length of tenure of Directors andunique skills, knowledge and experience to its overall effectiveness.
Their Individual details are given in their biographies on pages 40 and 41.
IPO Following our evaluation of the Board, I, as Chairman, confirm that the Oct performance of all our Directors continues to be effective and to 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 demonstrate commitment totheir roles.
John Hughes 5 years Succession planning We have developed a thorough succession planning process for the Michael Tobin 5 years since IPO executive Directors and senior management in the Group.
This includes Brian  and facilitation of the development of each individual Muscroft 5 years since IPO aswell as career progression as opportunities arise.
These matters are reviewed regularly by the Committee and the feedback from participants Simon Batey 5 years has been positive.
During 2012, the Committee reviewed succession planning in relation Maurizio Carli 2 years tothe longer-serving non-executive Directors and me as Chairman.
Afresh perspective was brought to this review by the appointment to Sahar Elhabashi 2 years ourCommittee of our more recently recruited non-executive Directors, John OReilly 5 years UK Code Principle: All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 57 At specic meetings At each main meeting Report of the Nominations Committee continued Board and Committee evaluation Critical to the success of our Board and Committees in achieving their aims is Board evaluation process the effectiveness with which they operate.
Accordingly, we take our evaluation of this very seriously.
Even before the UK Code took effect, we had Comprehensive questionnaire containing a series adopted the three-year cycle for external evaluations that it recommends.
of open questions requiring narrative answers Completed by all Directors covering the following areas: 2009 and 2012 Internally Strategy and implementation facilitated Succession planning and talent development Board dynamics, operation and information ow The Chairmans performance Performance of each of the Board Committees Director self-assessment and training needs 2008 and 2011 2010 and 2013 Internally Externally Interviews by the Senior Independent Director facilitated facilitated with the other Directors Including discussion on: clarification or expansion of answers in the questionnaires Any additional matters which the relevant Director or A summary of our 2012 Board and Committee evaluation process led by Senior Independent Director wished to raise Simon Batey, our Senior Independent Director, and me is shown in the ow chart on the left.
A summary of the actions we took in response to our The performance of the Chairman evaluation process in 2011 is shown on the next page.
I will report to you next The individual Directors performance and training year on the actions taken in response to our 2012 evaluation, and on our 2013 requirements evaluation which will be externally facilitated in line with our three year cycle.
The Chairman held the equivalent interview with the Senior Independent Director.
Board and employee diversity Diversity within our Board is essential in maximising its effectiveness and Results of the questionnaire and interviews within our business is essential in maximising its success.
The different and drawing of conclusions perspectives that this diversity brings enriches debates, business planning and problem solving.
The results were reported to the Board and its Committees in a manner that did not identify individuals specic responses, Taking, for example, two aspects of diversity, we have recognised the benets of having female and non-UK representation on our Board and ensuring that these responses could be as open, frank and Committees.
A review of these two aspects of diversity in TelecityGroup informative as possible.
is shown in the diagrams on the next page.
These responses showed that the Board welcomed the enhancements to its processes following the 2011 evaluation These aspects are measured rstly with reference to our non-executive reported on the next page.
Directors, and secondly with reference to our senior management including the executive Directors.
We have adopted this split because Following review of the results, the Board drew conclusions allappointments and promotions within the senior management team, and agreed actions including: aswith Group employees generally, are made strictly in accordance with the Groups equal opportunities employment policies.
We also show the Suggestions for specic topics for further Board meetings split with regard to gender in the Group as a whole.
This indicates that to be considered in relation to: TelecityGroups overall gender breakdown is similar to the national Organisational and people development gender split in the IT sector in the UK according to published statistics.
Customer offerings Technological evolution We believe in and practise equal opportunities in relation to all employees Energy efficiency initiatives and in recruiting the right person for the job.
As part of this, we will Competitor strengths and weaknesses continue to aim to increase diversity over the coming years.
Greater coverage of post-event capital expenditure In 2012, we commenced an action plan to review equality policies and projectassessment and learnings in country manager communications: recruitment and selection processes: performance, presentations pay and reward levels: and career development opportunities and assistance in achieving these.
This included the implementation of an Further consideration of evolution of future investor enhanced appraisal process: the launch of a revised and improved expectations of the Company employee handbook: and enriched development plans for senior Objectives of the Committees to be updated in light managers and training opportunities for other staff.
ofevaluation comments As an equal opportunities employer, diversity in all areas is a priority for TelecityGroup.
Relevant policies and processes are regularly reviewed Follow-up meetings and discussions toensure we are meeting the high standard which we set for ourselves inpromoting a diverse workforce.
We continually investigate ways in The Chairman and non-executive Directors met in the which to attract diversity into the organisation with a focus on meritabsence of the executive Directors to discuss the based selection and promotion.
Recruitment processes now include performance of the executive Directors competency-based interviewing and a focus on testing of potential The non-executive Directors met in the absence of the employees for technical ability and or panel presentations.
Chairman to review his performance The Chairman reviewed training requirements established from the evaluation process for the individual Directors UK Code Principle: and the Board as a whole The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
58 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Actions taken in response to 2011 Board and Committee Evaluation 2011 Evaluation Recommendation Action in 2012 in response Enhance further the structure and content of Board meeting agendas Enhancements made are commented on in the report of the Board and reports on page 42 Provide the Board with greater and more frequent external input on An external speaker presented on a matter of strategic interest at strategic matters most main Board meetings Review the membership of the Board and its Committees during2012 This was done in April 2012 and is commented on in the governance introduction on page 38 Set annual objectives for the Board and Committees in their work These are included in the introductory sections of each of their individual reports in this governance review Consider shorter-term and longer-term strategic issues more Began in 2012, development of this approach will continue in 2013 independently of each other Enhance further the induction process for future new Directors Agreed to be completed when the next new Director is appointed Board and employee diversity Non-executive Directors Group and country managers including Chairman including executive Directors By gender By gender Female 13% Male 80% Female 20% Male 87% By citizenship By citizenship UK 60% Non-UK 40% Non-UK 56% UK 44% As I stated in our report last year, in relation to the future appointment of non-executive Directors, we expect to make appointments of each gender in equal numbers subject to the merits and diversity in general of the available candidates.
This aim will be taken account of in succession planning for these roles.
On this basis, as appointments All employees are made, we expect the proportion of female non-executive including Chairman Directors on our Board to increase over time towards 40% based onthe current Board size and structure.
We welcome the external Gender by job level Female guidance during the past year that echoes these aims.
manager 3% On behalf of the Nominations Committee Female non-manager 15% Male non-manager 66% Male John Hughes, CBE manager 16% Chairman of the Nominations Committee 12 February 2013 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 59
