BUSINESS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors, Michael Pavia Chairman of the Committee, Julian Schild and Melvin Lawson in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code provision C. 3.1.
Michael Pavia is also identified as having recent and relevant financial experience.
Attendance at Audit Committee meetings during the current year by Audit Committee members is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 29 of this document.
In accordance with best practice, the Audit Committee has the opportunity, as required, to meet with the external auditor of the Company without the presence of any executive directors and has done so during the current year.
The key responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: reviewing the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor and the direction of the external auditor to investigate any matters of particular concern: assessing the effectiveness of the Companys external auditor, including considering the scope and results of the annual audit: reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and assessing any potential impact on objectivity resulting from the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating to the Companys performance: and reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and other internal control and risk management processes.
The senior management team and executive directors periodically review the effectiveness of key internal control and risk management processes within the Company and report any changes in such activities to the Audit Committee and the external auditor for consideration at least once per year.
The review covers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
As part of its review during the current year, the Committee has focused on the risks associated with the Companys information technology systems and in this regard has obtained more detail from the IT department on the system safeguards and security in place.
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed and approved the Companys half year and annual financial statements, including an evaluation of the key accounting estimates contained therein.
Also, in conjunction with the Companys external auditor, the Audit Committee has considered, among other matters, compliance with the provisions of the Code and accounting developments, the Companys financial control environment and its risk management and control processes.
As part of this process the Audit Committee has also considered the need for any special projects or internal investigations and concluded that no such projects or investigations have been required.
In accordance with the Code provision C. 3.5, the Audit Committee has also considered the need for an internal audit function at the Company and has concluded that, in the light of its review of the internal controls in place and the report of the external auditor, no such function is currently required.
The external auditor presents a detailed audit report to the Audit Committee following their review of the annual financial statements.
Having regard to the work performed by the external auditor during the year, the Audit Committee considers that the relationship is working well and remains satisfied with the effectiveness of the external auditor.
Accordingly the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board, for approval by the shareholders, the reappointment of PKF UK LLP as the Companys auditor.
The external auditor has provided certain tax and other services to the Group during the year.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the services provided and in the light of the nature of the work performed and the level of fees paid as set out in note 2 of the financial statements on page 57 of this document considers that the external auditors objectivity and independence have not been compromised and that the external auditor was best placed to provide these services.
41 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED In order to guard against the objectivity and independence of the external auditor being compromised, the provision of any significant additional services aside from audit and tax remains subject to the approval of the Audit Committee.
The Committee would be likely to prohibit the provision of the following types of non-audit related work by the Companys external auditor: book-keeping and work relating to the preparation of accounting records and financial statements that will ultimately be subject to external audit: financial information system design and implementation: appraisal or valuation services in respect of material assets: internal auditing: investment advice or corporate broking: and any other work where mutual interests exist that could compromise the independence of the external auditor.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee, Michael Pavia, is the primary point of contact for staff of the Company to raise, in confidence, concerns they may have over possible improprieties, financial or otherwise.
All employees have been notified of this arrangement on the Companys intranet site which sets out Michael Pavias contact details Code provision C. 3.4.
No such matters were raised by employees during the current year.
Michael Pavia Chairman of the Audit Committee On behalf of the Board 22 May 2012 42 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
