BUSINESS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Board is pleased to report that during the year and as at the date of this Annual Report the Company has complied with the main principles and the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010.
This report, together with the Directors Report on pages 25 to 28, and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 39, provides details of how the Company has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Code.
This report also sets out certain specific procedures identified by the Companys board evaluation exercise which, whilst being compliant with the Code, will in future be improved.
A copy of the Code is available at www.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board meets regularly to review the progress of the Company and to discuss the measures required for its future development.
Directors are provided in advance with a formal schedule of matters to be discussed at each meeting, and with the information needed to monitor the progress of the Company.
Records of meetings and the decisions of the Board are maintained by the Company Secretary and are approved by the Board at the following meeting.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, if required, are able to take independent advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Any question of the removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
While the members of the Board are all experienced and well qualified, the opportunity to receive further training at the Companys expense is available to them at all times.
BOARD DUTIES The matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board are fully documented and include the following principal areas: Reviewing and agreeing the Companys strategy and long term objectives.
Assessing performance in the light of the Companys strategy and objectives.
Ensuring an effective system of risk management and internal controls is in place.
Approving changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board and reviewing its performance on an annual basis.
Reviewing the Companys overall corporate governance arrangements.
Approval of the Companys financial statements prior to publication.
Matters that are specifically delegated to the committees of the Board are documented in the various Terms of Reference of each committee which are available on the Companys website www.
TABLE OF ATTENDANCE AT FORMAL MEETINGS DURING THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2012 Name of Director Board Remuneration Audit Nomination Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 10 2 3 - Charles Wigoder 10 - - - Julian Schild 10 2 3 - Andrew Lindsay 10 - - - Chris Houghton 10 - - - Melvin Lawson 10 2 3 - Michael Pavia 9 2 3 - BOARD EVALUATION The directors recognise that the Code requires an external evaluation of the Boards of FTSE 350 companies to be carried out at least every three years.
The directors concluded that for the current year, and while the market for external evaluations remains in its infancy with relatively few experienced practitioners, an internal evaluation of the Board remained appropriate.
However, the Board will continue to monitor the development of market practice in this area and reassess its position in this regard during the coming year.
29 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The internal evaluation of the Board for the current year was conducted through the completion of formal detailed board, and board committee, evaluation questionnaires by each director.
In addition, and in order to achieve a greater level of rigour in its assessment of performance, a review involving each director was carried out.
This review was conducted by the Deputy Chairman and Company Secretary and principally covered the following areas: specific matters of concern arising from the board evaluation questionnaires, individual directors performances and key objectives for the coming year, and the identification of any specific training and development requirements.
The evaluation questionnaires were focussed on assessing effectiveness in the following key areas: the size and balance of the Board: the quality of Board debates and its decision making processes: the individual contributions made by each director: the Chairmans approach to leadership: the non-executive directors challenge of the executive directors: the Boards approach to identifying and mitigating key business risks: the quality of the Companys communications with key stakeholders: and the induction and training of Board members.
6.3 of the Code and building on the results of the evaluation questionnaires, the Deputy Chairman led a separate evaluation of the performance of the Chairman.
This evaluation principally comprised a review of the Chairmans leadership style and tone in promoting effective decision-making and ensuring constructive and sufficient debate took place around key issues.
The results of this evaluation were entirely satisfactory.
In general the evaluation concluded that the Board and its Committees had operated well during the year and that all the directors had effectively contributed to the Board as appropriate to their experience and varying roles and responsibilities.
However, it was identified that improvements could be made in certain areas covered by the evaluation.
It emerged that the induction of directors on appointment and the ongoing review of the training requirements for each director could be improved.
It has therefore been agreed that the Deputy Chairman, assisted where appropriate by the Company Secretary, will more regularly review the training and development requirements of each director.
It has also been proposed that a more formal induction programme be put in place ahead of any future Board appointments.
The evaluation also identified that improvements could be made to the Boards communication with the Companys key stakeholders on certain matters.
In particular, it has been agreed that communication with the Companys key shareholders be extended beyond the normal interaction with the executive directors.
This enhanced level of communication is likely to focus principally on governance related issues and will be mainly led by the Deputy Chairman.
The Board will also aim to make better use of the Companys AGM to facilitate engagement from a wider spectrum of the Companys shareholders.
Processes for covering routine AGM matters will be streamlined in order to provide the maximum opportunity for shareholders to engage with the Board on any matters of particular interest.
30 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS BOARD BALANCE AND DIVERSITY The Board has remained unchanged during the year and consists of three executive directors and three independent non-executive directors.
Julian Schild acts as the Companys Deputy Chairman and Senior Non-Executive Director.
Membership of each committee of the Board is set out in the table below: Name of Director Remuneration Audit Nomination Committee Committee Committee Charles Wigoder - - Julian Schild Chairman Andrew Lindsay - - - Chris Houghton - - - Melvin Lawson - Michael Pavia Chairman Chairman indicates independent non-executive directors The Board, in conjunction with the Nomination Committee, regularly reviews whether the composition of the Board and the diversity of its members remain appropriate in the light of the commercial challenges and risks facing the Company.
The members of the Nomination Committee believe that the composition of the Board is currently appropriate for the size of the Company and the nature of its operations.
However, the Committee appreciates that should the Companys situation change significantly in future, then the appointment of new directors to the Board may be required.
The main objective of the Nomination Committee when considering the appointment of new directors to the Board will remain to ensure that successful candidates are of the highest calibre and offer the optimum set of skills, experience and background.
The Committees Terms of Reference further stipulate that candidates from a wide range of backgrounds shall be considered and that due regard will be given to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
It remains the Committees position that it would not be appropriate to stipulate the characteristics of any future directors ahead of a full assessment of the particular requirements of the role at the time.
However, the Committee will ensure that it continues to adhere to the principles set out above in identifying and recruiting the most appropriate candidates to the Board in a non-discriminatory manner.
Further detail regarding the Companys position in relation to encouraging diversity within all layers of the organisation is set out in the Employees section of the Business Review on pages 16 and 17.
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company with the Executive Chairman responsible for developing the strategic direction of the business and ensuring the effective operation of the Board, including compliance with principles of good corporate governance, and the Chief Executive primarily responsible for implementing strategy and running the Groups operations on a day to day basis.
As appropriate, and in order to ensure good corporate governance, the Executive Chairman is assisted by the Companys independent non-executive Deputy Chairman in ensuring the effective operation of the Board.
The division of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive has been set out in writing and agreed by the Board in accordance with the Code provision A.
31 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED SUPPLY OF INFORMATION Information is supplied to the Board in a timely manner with board papers and accounts being provided in advance of meetings.
When the Board requests additional information it is provided.
RE-ELECTION The Companys Articles stipulate that one third of all directors are required to retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting and all newly appointed directors are required to offer themselves for election by the shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
However, the Code requires that all directors of FTSE 350 companies be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Therefore all the directors will be submitted for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Board has a Remuneration Committee whose responsibility is to ensure that the remuneration of executive directors is sufficient to attract, retain and motivate people of the highest calibre.
The Remuneration Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors, namely Julian Schild Chairman of the Committee, Melvin Lawson and Michael Pavia.
The Directors Remuneration Report, giving the details of the emoluments of each director, may be found on pages 34 to 39.
The Remuneration Committee has written terms of reference, available on the Companys website www.
co. uk, which describe the authority and duties which have been delegated to it by the Board.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors, Michael Pavia Chairman of the Committee, Melvin Lawson and Julian Schild in compliance with the Code provision C. 3.1.
The activities of the Audit Committee are set out on pages 41 and 42.
The Audit Committee has written terms of reference, available on the Companys website www.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee comprises Michael Pavia Chairman of Committee, Julian Schild and Charles Wigoder and therefore has a majority of independent non-executive directors in compliance with the Code provision B.
The main purpose of the Nomination Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new directors.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference, available on the Companys website www.
The activities of the Nomination Committee are set out on page 40.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS It is the policy of the Company to maintain a dialogue with institutional shareholders and to keep them informed about the objectives of the business.
The Board considers that it is appropriate for the executive directors to discuss any relevant matters regarding company performance with major shareholders and that this is undertaken primarily by the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
The Chief Executive provides feedback from major shareholders to the other directors, in order to ensure that Board members, and in particular non-executive directors, develop a balanced understanding of the views of major investors.
The executive directors met with a number of the Companys main shareholders during the year.
32 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS The Executive Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director also have periodic discussions with the Companys brokers and issues are fed back to the Board as appropriate.
Responsibility for communication with key shareholders in relation to corporate governance and Board remuneration matters lies primarily with the Deputy Chairman who is assisted in this regard by the Company Secretary.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each matter including the adoption of the Report and Accounts, the Directors Remuneration Report and the appointment of the Groups auditor.
Proxy votes are counted and the meeting is advised of the number of proxies lodged for and against each resolution.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees and the remaining non-executive directors are available to answer questions.
Shareholders who attend are invited to ask questions and take part in the meeting.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and risk management.
However it recognises that any system can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In conjunction with the Companys senior management team, the executive directors regularly identify, review and evaluate the key risks faced by the Group and the effectiveness of the internal controls in place to mitigate these risks.
The results of these reviews are recorded in a formal document which sets out a detailed evaluation of each risk and the associated internal control in place to mitigate that risk.
The document is reported to the Audit Committee and the Companys external auditor for review at least once per year.
The Board of directors has continued to review the internal controls of the Group including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management and the principal risks which the Group faces during the year.
No material weaknesses in internal controls were identified during the year.
The principal risks faced by the Company and the measures taken to address these risks are set out in the Business Review on pages 18 to 20.
SHARE CAPITAL AND VOTING RIGHTS Details of the Companys share capital and substantial shareholdings can be found in the Directors Report under the Capital structure and Substantial shareholders sections on pages 27 and 28.
33 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
