TRAVIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Nominations Committee Report FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 Just as the Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the private equity as well as plc companies.
We were delighted to performance and condition of the Groups financial and physical announce the appointment of Tony Buffin, who will join the Group assets, so the Nominations Committee is responsible for monitoring on April 8 2013: Tony was previously Group CFO at the 20bn the performance, appropriateness and future succession of the revenue Coles Group in Australia: Groups executive and Board talent.
Reflecting this importance, the 9ZiV aZY eaVch [dg i]Z [jgi]Zg eZghdcVa YZkZadebZci d[ ?d]c Nominations Committee has met as frequently as the Boards other Carter, following his appointment as Deputy Chief Executive.
major committees over the past two years.
The Committee met five All our Non Executive Directors were individually and times in 2012 and comprises myself as Chair, Chris Bunker and John collectively involved in contributing to Johns development, Coleman, although all the other Non-Executive Directors also came as well as specifically tailored courses: to the meetings.
Frequent attendees at the meetings were the Groups 6 eZg[dgbVcXZ gZk Zl d[ cZl ] gZh VcY cZl Veed cibZcih id i]Z Chief Executive and Group HR Director, depending on the relevance of Group below executive director level and the available pipeline of the issues under discussion.
internal talent feeding into those management levels: The principal role of the Nominations Committee is to identify, 6eegdkVa [dg [jijgZ jhZ d[ cZl hZgk XZ XdcigVXih i]Vi iV`Z cid and nominate for Board approval, candidates to fill Board vacancies account recent legal and corporate governance developments.
Of course, these days it is more and more In the coming year, the focus of the Committees work will switch to important to plan for Board and executive succession well in advance, planning the future Non Executive membership of the Board.
This in order to ensure smooth succession and ensure that the Groups is because three of our current NEDs are due for retirement in the Board and executive leadership skills are fully aligned to the Groups next three years and in addition, Philip Jansen has decided to retire long term strategy.
from the Board after the Annual General Meeting because of his In planning these appointments, the Nominations Committee will: other executive commitments.
We plan to conduct a comprehensive EgZeVgZ V [jaa YZhXg ei dc d[ i]Z gdaZ!
h` aah VcY XVeVW a i Zh assessment of the Boards skills, given our long-term strategy, to required: ensure that our future NEDs are fully able to complement and 6eed ci ZmiZgcVa hZVgX] [ gbh!
ZVX] i bZ gZk Zl c VaiZgcVi kZ support the executive leadership.
In leading this process on the options, and ensuring that the chosen firm has signed up to the Nominations Committee, I will be discussing this skills assessment relevant industry codes, for example, on diversity: with each of our major investors, seeking their input and where :c V Z l i] i]Z gdjeh bV dg h]VgZ]daYZgh dc [jijgZ h` aa possible their suggestions as to possible nominees.
requirements and ideas for potential candidates.
Importantly, we will also continue the development work A further important role for the Committee is to ensure that there undertaken in 2012 on preparing for future senior executive is a continuous pipeline of high performing and executive talent succession.
at the two levels below executive director.
These discussions As Chairman of the Committee, I will be available at the Annual would normally take place at least once a year.
In this sense, the General Meeting to answer any questions about the Committees work.
Nominations Committee has a broader HR function.
The focus of the Committees work in 2012 was on four topics: I]Z hZVgX] [dg V ] ] XVa WgZ XVcY YViZ id hjXXZZY EVja VbeYZc Smith as Group CFO, given his intention to retire.
Russell Reynolds was chosen, after considering a number of alternatives, to conduct the search and was given a wide remit and demanding Robert Walker specification, covering both the UK and international markets, Chairman 75 GOVERNANCE
