TRAVIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Corporate Governance FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 UK corporate governance code and constructive debate.
I agree the agenda for board meetings in We explain below how the Company has applied the principles and conjunction with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code in 2012.
Agendas are based upon an annual plan but also include matters of We do so by reference to the five main sections of the Code.
Where particular interest or concern to the Board at any particular time.
practicable, we have complied early this year with changes to the I discuss the meeting papers with any director who is unable to Code, and with forthcoming regulations on executive remuneration attend a meeting, to obtain that directors view prior to the meeting.
reporting, which will not technically apply to the Company until next I also monitor the information provided to the Board to ensure it is years annual report.
sufficient, timely and clear, and the Board reviews the adequacy of this information as part of its annual evaluation process, described below.
Leadership I make a habit of contacting all the non-executive directors in The Company is governed by a board of directors, of which I am advance of Board meetings, to suggest the key issues for discussion Chairman.
In addition, there are three executive and five nonduring the meeting: this also helps the directors to prepare, during executive directors.
Geoff Cooper is Chief Executive.
Chris Bunker their reading of the papers in advance of the meeting.
was the Senior Independent Director throughout 2012 and until I maintain regular direct contact with the executive directors and succeeded in that role in January 2013 by John Coleman.
Ruth keep the non-executive directors informed of material developments Anderson, Philip Jansen and Andrew Simon are also independent between board meetings.
I have regular, mostly weekly meetings with non-executive directors.
the Group Chief Executive and meet from time to time throughout The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it, which the year with the Finance Director and Deputy Chief Executive.
Its key a number of meetings during the year with all the non-executive responsibilities are for overall group strategy, policy on corporate directors, without the executive directors being present.
governance, approval of expansion plans and major capital expenditure, consideration of significant financial and operational Board meetings matters and the Companys exposure to key risks.
It also reviews We held twelve Board meetings in 2012 two by conference call, the strategy of the individual businesses, their annual budgets and One meeting was dedicated to consideration of the Companys longprogress towards the achievement of those budgets and longterm strategy.
Nine meetings included either visits to parts of the term objectives.
Legislative, environmental, health and safety and Companys operations, presentations by senior executives on their employment issues are also considered.
The Board has also approved areas of responsibility or, in one case, a visit to the factory of a major a written statement of the division of key responsibilities between supplier.
The latter visit was prompted by a recommendation in the myself, as Chairman, and the Chief Executive: again, we review this previous years externally-conducted performance evaluation, in annually and no changes were made in 2012. which it was suggested the Board have more contact with its wider, The Company maintains directors & officers insurance in respect external partners.
Non-executive directors also made individual visits of the risk of claims against directors.
In addition to the regular board meetings, key All directors have direct access to the Company Secretary and financial information is circulated to directors outside of meetings.
may take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their The number of board and committee meetings attended by each duties if necessary.
director in whole or in part during the year is detailed in the table below.
The larger number of Remuneration Committee meetings is Communication unusual and was prompted by the need to give full consideration to As Chairman, I take care to ensure that each director is able to make the Groups proposed new replacement deferred share bonus plan an effective contribution within an atmosphere of transparency see Remuneration Report, page 65.
PLC Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Health & Safety Executive No.
Number of meetings 12 4 9 5 3 12 Attendances: R. Anderson 11 4 - 5 3 - C. J. Bunker 12 4 9 5 - - J. P. Carter 12 - - - 3 11 J. Coleman 12 4 9 5 - - G. I. Cooper 12 - 9 3 - 12 P. N. Hampden Smith 11 4 2 - - 12 P. Jansen 12 - 8 5 - - A. H. Simon 12 - 9 5 3 - R. Walker 12 4 9 5 3 - 57 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board committees Ruth Anderson October 2014 3 years We have five board committees: the Audit Committee, the Chris Bunker October 2013 9 years, 9 months Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee, the Health John Coleman February 2014 9 years & Safety Committee and the Executive Committee, which operate within defined terms of reference, which we review annually.
These Philip Jansen April 2015 6 years are available on the Companys website or may be obtained from Andrew Simon February 2015 9 years the Company Secretary.
The minutes of committee meetings are Robert Walker September 2015 6 years circulated to all the Directors.
The Executive Committee is chaired by the Group CEO and its members are listed on page 56.
Other executives are invited to attend The letters of appointment will be available for inspection at the from time to time in relation to specific matters.
The main purpose of Annual General Meeting.
this Committee is to assist the executive directors in the performance Chris Bunker has now served on the Board for over 9 years.
However, of their duties in relation in particular to: with the arrival of a new Finance Director in April 2013, and as the HigViZ n!
egdXZYjgZh VcY WjY Zih0 Board will be conducting a key strategic review in the Autumn of this I]Z bdc idg c d[ deZgVi dcVa VcY [ cVcX Va eZg[dgbVcXZ0 year, it was agreed that the Board would greatly benefit from retaining I]Z VhhZhhbZci VcY Xdcigda d[ g h`0 Chris skills and experience for a few more months.
He will therefore, I]Z eg dg i hVi dc VcY VaadXVi dc d[ gZhdjgXZh# now retire from the Board in October 2013.
The Chairman consulted This committee is in the process of establishing a number of subwith major shareholders who were supportive of this extension.
committees to carry out more detailed review in areas such as trading Regrettably, because of the extent of his other executive performance or financial control, which will allow the committee to commitments, Philip Jansen has also decided to retire from the Board focus on key strategic issues.
with effect from the end of the Annual General Meeting in May 2013.
Effectiveness Induction The Board is satisfied that I and the five non-executive directors are We have an induction process for new directors, which is facilitated all independent.
In particular, none of the specific circumstances by the Company Secretary.
In particular, this includes a programme set out in Code provision B.
Appointments of new directors of meetings with senior management in both operations and central are made by the Board on the recommendation of the Nominations functions, and visits to a range of branches and stores.
I chair that Committee and all the other members are all directors receive appropriate training on appointment and then independent non-executive directors.
A report of the Committees subsequently as required, taking into account the need to update work in 2012 is on page 75. their skills and their knowledge of the Companys business.
Nonexecutive directors are also regularly provided with information on Appointments forthcoming legal and regulatory changes and corporate governance With regard to the appointment of non-executive directors, our policy developments, and briefings on the key risks facing the Company, is to recruit people of the highest calibre, with a breadth of skills including those identified in the Corporate Responsibility statement and experience appropriate for the Companys business.
We support on page 56. the principles of the Davies Review and the need for a diverse range of attributes among board members, although we do not intend to Executive mentoring by NEDs commit to specific quotas.
We use search firms who have committed Since 2011, and conscious of the potential impact of the Groups to abide by the voluntary code of conduct which followed the Davies growth on communication between the Board and senior Review.
We will establish a diversity policy during 2013 as required management, we have adopted a new approach to involving our by the Code.
We will report on this next year.
non-executive directors including myself more closely with the Non-executive directors are appointed for a period of three years, individual businesses.
Each non-executive director is allocated to at the end of which the appointment may be renewed by mutual one or more of the Groups businesses and one of the Groups central agreement.
It is the Boards policy that non-executive directors should functions to mentor during the year.
The precise process is left to generally serve for six years two three-year terms and that any each non-executive director to decide, but involves a programme of term beyond this should be subject to a rigorous review.
This review contact and meetings with the management of those businesses or takes into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board, functions, and a number of site visits.
The intention is to give the maintenance of a balance of skills and experience and the particular non-executive directors a better understanding of our businesses requirements of the Company at the time of the possible extension.
and functions, their people and strategies, while allowing them Non-executive directors do not have a service contract, but each has to use their skills and experience to bring a fresh, independent, received a letter of appointment.
These appointments expire on the viewpoint to those parts of the Group.
This mentoring arrangement following dates, and the length of service at that date is also shown.
58 TRAVIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Evaluation of performance the essential understanding of financial controls and accounting During the year, the Board undertook an evaluation of its background.
An understanding of information technology will performance and the performance of its committees and the become increasingly important.
The Boards policy is to engage an external facilitator to assist this process every three years, while recognising 3.
Accountability the difficulty in finding fully capable expertise in this area.
It A review of the performance of the Groups businesses and the is a fact of life that new government regulations often spawn financial position of the Group is included in the reports of the Chief new businesses and it has been Board members experience Executive, the Deputy Chief Executive and Finance Director set out that individuals who set out to provide this service in the past on pages 20 to 43.
The Board uses them, together with my statement were simply not fit for purpose.
Previously, the Board has very on pages 18 and 19 to present a full assessment of the Companys successfully utilised the service of Egon Zehnder, one of the largest position and prospects, its business model, and its strategy for providers of board evaluation services in the UK, since there has delivering that model.
The Directors responsibilities for the financial been no conflict of interest.
Going forward, we are encouraged to see statements are described on page 80.
Their consideration of the the emergence in the past year or so of more professionally qualified Group as a going concern is dealt with in the Finance Directors report evaluation service providers on page 43.
Having appointed an external facilitator in 2011, in 2012 the Board carried out an internal review of its performance.
This entailed each Internal control director and the company secretary completing a questionnaire The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control about the performance of the Board and its committees, which and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In the design of the system of was followed by interviews with the Chairman, who subsequently internal control, consideration has been given to the significant risks prepared a report, which was presented to the Board in December.
to the business, the probability of these risks manifesting themselves Chris Bunker, as senior independent director also conducted a review and the most cost effective means of controlling them.
The threat of the performance of the Chairman on which he reported separately posed by those risks, and any perceived change in that threat, is to the other directors.
Having considered the outcome of these reviewed quarterly by both the Executive Committee and the Board.
reports, the Board believes that it has operated effectively during The system manages rather than eliminates risk and therefore can the year but it will focus on a number of areas in 2013 where it may only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material further improve its performance.
Those areas are: misstatement or loss.
"cXajY c Vbdc cdc""ZmZXji kZ Y gZXidgh0 The day-to-day operation of the system of internal control is Hjeedgi [dg i]Z [jgi]Zg YZkZadebZci d[ bVcV ZbZci YZkZadebZci delegated to executive directors and senior management, but the programmes: effectiveness of the system is regularly reviewed by the Audit I]Z YZkZadebZci d[ [ cVcX Va gZedgi c id i]Z 7dVgY0 Committee and the Board in a process that accords with the GZXZ k c cYZeZcYZci k Zlh [gdb ZmiZgcVa hdjgXZh!"
through discussions or site visits, to gain greater insight in to best practice in a number of areas.
Risk assessment In 2013, the Board will conduct an internal review of its performance.
The Board and the Executive Committee receive reports on specific areas of risk at each meeting, in accordance with a rolling timetable.
Re-election They also receive reports of Internal Audit reviews.
If appropriate, At the AGM, all directors except Philip Jansen will submit these reports include recommendations for improvement in controls themselves for re-election.
As a result of the board evaluation exercise, or for the management of those risks.
Measures to integrate risk as Chairman I am satisfied that each director continues to show the management processes into the Groups operations, to extend necessary level of commitment to the Group, and has sufficient time awareness of the importance of risk management and to ensure available to fulfil his or her duties, to justify their re-election.
The that recommended improvements are implemented, are regularly other directors, in a process led by the Senior Independent Director, reviewed and refreshed.
Senior executives are asked, each year, have reached a similar view in regard to my own re-election, and in to confirm the adequacy of internal controls in their areas of particular have recognised that my appointment as chairman of responsibility, identify any control weaknesses, and to confirm the Enterprise Inns during 2012 has not affected my commitment to and accuracy and completeness of information given to the directors and time available for my role at Travis Perkins.
This process was extended further through The Board believes that there is presently a blend of skills and the management structure in 2012. experience among the non-executive directors, which is appropriate In conjunction with the Audit Committee, the Board has carried out for the Group.
The skills required for our Board, include experience an annual review of the overall effectiveness of the system of internal in the merchanting and retail sectors, capital project and M&A control and risk management, during the year and up until the date of evaluation and experience of international markets, as well as approval of this Annual Report.
59 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit committee and auditors addition, written reports about the Company by analysts or brokers The Board has established an Audit Committee consisting of three are circulated to all directors.
Its key responsibilities and a As regards governance issues, the Chairman aims to meet description of its work in 2012 are contained in its report, which is set with major shareholders shortly after the previous years annual out on pages 61 to 63. shareholders meeting.
These meetings are deliberately timed early in the year so that the Board can consider and respond to shareholder 4.
Remuneration concerns well in advance of the following years annual report and The Board has established a Remuneration Committee consisting shareholder meeting.
I normally contact our 20 largest shareholders of the Chairman and four independent non-executive directors.
to ensure the widest consultation possible and particularly, given Its responsibilities include remuneration policy, a review of the market volatility, to ensure that the views of a shareholder who performance of executive directors prior to determining their substantially increases its stake during the year have been fully remuneration and the approval of incentive arrangements, including taken into account.
The remuneration of the non-executive As well as sending the annual report to shareholders, during the directors is determined by the Board as a whole, except that the year, the Company published its interim results on its website, Remuneration Committee makes a recommendation in respect of the issued two interim management statements, and one further trading Chairmans fee.
No director plays a part in the discussion about his update.
Shareholders receive at least twenty working days notice own remuneration.
of the Annual General Meeting at which all directors are available The Committees key responsibilities and a description of its work in for questions and a short business presentation takes place.
Each 2012 are contained in its report, which is set out on pages 64 and 74. substantive issue is the subject of a separate resolution.
I announce the numbers of proxy votes for and against each resolution at the 5.
Relations with shareholders meeting, after the voting has taken place, and these numbers are The Company encourages two-way communication with both its subsequently published on the Companys website.
institutional and private investors and responds promptly to all enquiries received.
In 2012, the Chairman, the Senior Independent Corporate governance compliance statement Director and the executive directors, either separately or together, I am pleased to report that the Company has complied throughout the attended a large number of meetings with analysts, and with year ended 31 December 2012 with the provisions set out in the Code.
shareholders representing about 55% of the issued share capital.
In particular, three strategy presentations including site visits, were held for analysts and investors during the year.
We also make it clear that the Senior Independent Director is available as a direct contact for shareholders, if they wish.
The Chairman and executive directors Robert Walker report to the Board on any meetings with shareholders or analysts.
