Directors Robert Walker Geoff Cooper John Carter Paul Hampden Smith Chairman Deputy Chief Executive Robert Walker was appointed as a non-executive John Carter joined Sandell Perkins as a management director in September 2009 and became Chairman in trainee in 1978.
He held a number of regional May 2010.
He is chairman of Enterprise Inns plc and management positions, before being appointed Americana International Holdings Ltd, and a senior Managing Director, Operations in 1996, and a director independent director of Tate & Lyle PLC He was of Travis Perkins plc in July 2001.
He became Chief previously chairman of W H Smith PLC, Williams Lea Operating Officer in February 2005 and was appointed Group Ltd and BCA Europe and Group Chief Executive of Deputy Chief Executive in December 2011.
He spent over 30 years with Procter & trustee of the Building Research Establishment.
He is a Gamble, McKinsey and PepsiCo and has also served as a member of the Health & Safety Committee.
non executive director on a number of FTSE 100 and 250 boards.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee Finance Director and a member of the Remuneration and Health & Safety Paul Hampden Smith served as Finance Director Committees.
throughout 2012 and retired from the Board on 28 February 2013.
Chief Executive Tony Buffin is to be appointed as Finance Director Geoff Cooper joined the Company in February 2005 on 8 April 2013.
He is a chartered accountant and joins and was appointed Chief Executive in March that year.
us from the Coles Group in Australia where he was Chief He is a chartered management accountant and had Financial Officer from 2009.
He was formally Chief a career in management consultancy before joining Financial Officer of the Loyalty Management Group.
Gateway as Finance Director in 1990.
In 1994 he became Finance Director of UniChem plc, subsequently Alliance UniChem plc which later became part of Alliance Boots plc, where he was appointed Deputy Chief Executive in 2001.
He is non-executive Chairman of Dunelm Group Plc, and Chairman of the Construction Products Association.
He is Chairman of the Executive Committee.
