TRAVIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Audit Committee Report FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to report below on meetings with the Director of Business Risk and Assurance and the Committees activities in 2012. with the external auditors, without management being present.
Committee members meet regularly with operational and functional Role of the audit committee staff throughout the year and participate in relevant technical update The Committee is primarily responsible for: programmes.
I am satisfied that the Committee received sufficient, I]Z ciZ g in d[ i]Z [ cVcX Va hiViZbZcih d[ i]Z 8dbeVcn VcY reliable and timely information from management to enable it to any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial fulfil its responsibilities during the year.
performance, and reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained therein: Main activities of the committee during the year GZk Zl c i]Z 8dbeVcnh ciZgcVa [ cVcX Va Xdcigdah VcY ih At our meeting in February, the Committee reviewed the annual internal control and risk management systems: financial statements of the Company.
It took into account regular Bdc idg c VcY gZk Zl c i]Z Z[[ZXi kZcZhh d[ i]Z 8dbeVcnh management accounting information, a report from the internal internal audit function: auditors on internal control matters and the external auditors report GZk Zl c i]Z VjY i eaVch d[ i]Z ZmiZgcVa VjY idgh VcY [dg on the conduct of their audit, their review of accounting policies and monitoring the conduct of the audit: areas of judgment in the financial statements and their comments on GZk Zl c i]Z ZmiZgcVa VjY idgh cYZeZcYZcXZ VcY dW ZXi k in VcY statements concerning risk and internal control.
A similar review was the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration undertaken at the July meeting when the interim statements were relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: considered.
"During the year the Committee also reviewed: GZk Zl c VcY beaZbZci c i]Z 8dbeVcnh eda Xn dc i]Z AZhhdch aZVgcZY [gdb i]Z egdXZhh id ciZ gViZ i]Z 7HH gdjeh engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, financial systems, the costs of that integration, and the associated taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of exceptional items: non-audit services by an external audit firm: I]Z beV gbZci iZhi c d[ ddYl aa VcY di]Zg cdc""bdcZiVgn VhhZih 8dcYjXi c Vcn iZcYZg egdXZhh [dg i]Z egdk h dc d[ i]Z ZmiZgcVa and the accounting processes and disclosures related thereto: audit, and making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution I]Z VXXdjci c igZVibZci d[ i]Z VXfj h i dc d[ i]Z gZbV c c h]VgZ to be put to the shareholders in relation to the appointment and capital in Toolstation in January 2012: remuneration of the external auditors."
I]Z egd gZhh d[ igV c c dc i]Z 7g WZgn 6Xi0 Shortly after each meeting, I report to the Board on the work of the I]Z 8dbeVcnh iVm bVcV ZbZci VcY ih Xdbea VcXZ l i] Committee, identifying any matters where it considers that action or tax legislation, the tax impact of significant projects, and the improvement is needed, and make recommendations as to the steps relationship with HMRC: to be taken.
6c ZkVajVi dc d[ i]Z 8dbb iiZZh ldg` XVgg ZY dji Vh eVgi d[ i]Z The Committees full terms of reference are available on the Board evaluation process referred to on pages 58 and 59.
Companys website, or on request to the Company Secretary.
I subsequently reported to the Board on this evaluation: I]Z 8dbb iiZZh iZgbh d[ gZ[ZgZcXZ0 X]Vc Zh lZgZ gZXdbbZcYZY Composition of the audit committee to the Board in the light of changes to the UK Corporate Governance I was Chairman, and Ruth Anderson and John Coleman were Code: members, of the Committee throughout 2012.
All members of the 8dbbZcih gZXZ kZY dc ih '%&& gZedgi [gdb chi iji dcVa ckZhidg Committee are considered to be independent and have considerable bodies: financial and commercial experience from a variety of corporate and I]Z Z[[ZXi kZcZhh d[ i]Z hnhiZb d[ ciZgcVa [ cVcX Va Xdcigda VcY professional backgrounds.
In particular, the Board considers that the system for monitoring and reporting on risks faced by the both I and Ruth Anderson have the recent and relevant financial Group: the Committee considered these systems to have been experience required by the UK Corporate Governance Code see also effective during the year: the board profiles on pages 54 and 55.
The Company Secretary is I]Z iZgbh d[ gZ[ZgZcXZ!
egdXZhhZh VcY secretary to the Committee.
effectiveness of the internal audit department, taking into account the results of an exercise to benchmark its performance against Meetings and attendance other companies: The Committee held four meetings during 2012, and attendance at I]Z hiVijh d[ VXi dch iV`Zc c gZhedchZ id gZXdbbZcYVi dch the meetings is shown on page 57.
"I also invited the Group Chairman, arising from internal and external audit work: the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Deputy Chief Executive, I]Z Z[[ZXi kZcZhh d[ i]Z gdjeh l] hiaZWadl c eda Xn0 the Group Financial Controller, the Director of Business Risk and I]Z eda Xn dc Zc V ZbZci d[ i]Z ZmiZgcVa VjY idg [dg cdc""VjY i Assurance and the external auditor to attend the meetings."
At each work, as referred to below, and the policy on the employment of meeting I gave the external auditor and the Director of Business anyone previously employed by the external auditor: Risk and Assurance the opportunity to discuss with the Committee, I]Z eaVch egZhZciZY Wn i]Z ZmiZgcVa VjY idg [dg XdcYjXi d[ i]Z any matters which they wished to raise without the presence year-end audit and half-year review including the related risk of management.
In addition, during the year, I held a number of analyses, terms of engagement, fees and letters of representation: 61 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPOR T I]Z Z[[ZXi kZcZhh!
VcY dW ZXi k in d[ i]Z ZmiZgcVa regard to their appointment.
In accordance with current professional auditor, taking into account information and written assurances standards, the partner responsible for the audit changes every 5 provided by Deloitte LLP, on its quality and independence controls, years: the last change occurred in 2010. and its ethical standards, and reports of the FRC Audit Inspection The Committee considers that Deloitte provide a high quality, Unit: efficient and cost effective audit service.
Accordingly, following our I]Z hZXjg in d[ i]Z gdjeh c[dgbVi dc iZX]cdad n hnhiZbh0 February 2013 meeting at which we reviewed the 2012 audit process, I]Z gdjeh hnhiZbh [dg Zchjg c i]Z Za W a in d[ ZbeadnZZh id the Committee recommended to the Board that resolutions be put to work in the UK: shareholders at the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment I]Z gdjeh VXXdjci c eda X Zh!
[dgi]Xdb c X]Vc Zh id of the external auditor, and to authorise the Directors to fix their International Financial Reporting Standards and other regulations, remuneration.
It is the Groups intention to put the audit out to tender and the Financial Reporting Councils 2012 report and guidance at least every 10 years, in accordance with the recent change to the notes: UK Corporate Governance Code, and to do so in 2014, the last year I]Z Z[[ZXi kZcZhh d[ i]Z gdjeh eda X Zh VcY egdXZhhZh [dg [gVjY before the Deloitte audit partner is due to change.
will be completed in time for the 2015 year-end.
No matters of material significance were identified by the auditors One of the Committees responsibilities is to ensure compliance during the year and there were no material audit-related matters that with the Boards policy in respect of services provided by, and fees were discussed with investors.
Two members of the Committee are paid to, the auditor.
Audit fees, which are regularly compared with peer also members of the Remuneration Committee.
The Audit Committee companies by the Committee, are initially negotiated by the Finance is satisfied that the Groups remuneration policies are compatible Director, but are then approved by the Committee.
The policy in with a robust control environment and good stewardship.
relation to other services that could be provided by the external auditor, The key areas of risk and sensitivity, the major accounting which has been approved by the Board, can be summarised as follows: policies, and the principal assumptions with regard to fair values are described in the Annual Report and notes to the accounts.
The General principles Committee reviewed these during the year and after taking into There is a presumption against the external auditor providing nonaccount discussions with the Financial Reporting Councils Conduct audit services and they should only be chosen to carry out such work Committee about impairment calculations and disclosures see note where its nature makes it more cost effective and efficient to select 13 to the annual report and accounts, and after including some advisors who have a good understanding of the Group or the work is of additional disclosures in the Groups 2012 annual report and accounts a particularly confidential or specialist nature.
The external auditors the Committee was satisfied that they were appropriate.
should not provide non-audit services where either the nature of the work or the extent of such services might impair their independence External auditor or objectivity in carrying out the audit.
Any engagement of the We place great importance on the effectiveness and independence external auditor for non-audit work with a fee over 25,000 requires of the external auditor and, together with them, are careful to ensure my approval.
their objectivity is not compromised.
At our October meeting, the auditors presented their plans for the forthcoming audit together with Areas of work their proposed fees and information on how they ensure that their Our policy sets out certain non-audit services where it would be usual objectivity and independence are not compromised.
Deloitte LLP or to engage the external auditor because they are best placed to advise its predecessor firms is a leading international audit partnership, the Group and their independence would not be compromised and and was first appointed as auditor to group companies more than 30 those where their engagement is not permitted.
I am consulted in years ago.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Group with relation to any proposed work not covered by the list below.
Permitted work Prohibited work Audit related Non-audit related Book-keeping and work related to the preparation of accounting records: Activities required by Tax compliance services: Financial information system design or implementation: law or legislation to Tax advisory services: Appraisal and valuation services: be undertaken by the Public reporting on investment Internal audit services: Auditors: circulars and similar documents: Actuarial services: Reviews of interim Private reporting to sponsors and Forensic work: financial information: similar parties in connection with Recruitment services: Managed service reports investment circulars and similar Secondment of staff to a supervisory or management position: to housing associations documents: Provision of investment advice, broking or legal services.
62 TRAVIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Value of work Internal audit Non-audit services require approval as follows: As well as its reviews of the internal audit departments strategy Je id !%%% cd [dgbVa VeegdkVa h gZfj gZY egdk YZY i]Z ldg` h and processes, as described above, during its meetings in 2012, the permitted under the list referred to on the previous page: Committee received presentations from the Director of Business !%%% id ' !%%% : cVcXZ 9 gZXidg0 Risk and Assurance, about the results of work undertaken by the ' !%%% id %!%%% : cVcXZ 9 gZXidg VcY 8dbb iiZZ 8]V gbVc0 department, and approved its risk-based plans for work in 2013.
The %!%%% VcY VWdkZ : cVcXZ 9 gZXidg VcY 8dbb iiZZ 8]V gbVc Committee was satisfied with the overall effectiveness of the internal following a competitive tender.
Formal approval by the Committee is also required if the aggregated level of forecast fees for non-audit services exceeds 50% of the Overview statutory audit fee.
As a result of our work during the year, and taking into account the result of the Board and Committee evaluation process described on Reporting page 59, the Committee considers that it has acted in accordance The Finance Director reports twice yearly to the Committee on fees with its terms of reference and has ensured the independence, for non-audit services payable to the auditors.
objectivity and effectiveness of the external and internal auditors.
As shown in note 5 to the accounts, during the year the Auditors were The Committee has also concluded that the Groups internal control paid 431k 2011: 401k for audit-related work, and 129k 2011: and risk management systems were effective during the year.
I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any The principal items of non-audit fees related to reviewing the questions about the work of the Committee.
Groups interim announcement to shareholders and sundry tax advice.
In view of Deloittes detailed understanding of the Groups operations and accounting policies, and being mindful of future Auditor reporting obligations, the Audit Committee decided that it was appropriate for Deloitte to undertake this work.
In addition, 347k 2011: 119k of fees was paid to other accounting firms for non-audit work, including advice to the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee understands that the total fees paid by the Group Chris Bunker to Deloitte in 2012 amount to less than, 0.03% of Deloittes UK fee Chairman, Audit Committee income and considers that the Auditors independence has not been impaired by the non-audit fees paid in 2012.
