BOARD OF DIRECTORS AN EXPERIENCED LEADERSHIP TEAM The balance of Executive and non-executive Directors bring a broad range of industry, commercial and other relevant experience to the Board, which is vital to the management and governance of Tullows growing business.
SIMON THOMPSON AIDAN HEAVEY IAN SPRINGETT GRAHAM MARTIN Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer General Counsel & Age: 53 Age: 59 Age: 55 Company Secretary Age: 58 Nationality: British Nationality: Irish Nationality: British Nationality: British Tenure: 1 year Tenure: 27 years Tenure: 4 years Tenure: 16 years Term of office: 3 years Term of office: Rolling 1 year Term of office: Rolling 1 year Term of office: Rolling 1 year Letter of appointment: Service contract: Service contract: Dated 16 December 2011 Dated 2 September 2002 Dated 1 September 2008 Service contract: Dated 2 September 2002 Re-election to Board: Annual Re-election to Board: Annual Re-election to Board: Annual Re-election to Board: Annual Simon Thompson was appointed A founding Director and A Chartered Accountant, Ian Graham Martin is a UK solicitor as a non-executive Director in shareholder of the Company, Springett was appointed Chief and joined Tullow as Legal and May 2011 and non-executive Aidan Heavey has played a key Financial Officer and to the Board Commercial Director in 1997 Chairman from 1 January 2012. role in the development of Tullow in 2008.
Prior to joining Tullow, from Vinson & Elkins, a leading He holds a degree in geology and from its formation in 1985 to its he worked at BP for 23 years international law practice.
brings a wealth of international current international status as a where he gained a wealth of Prior to that, he was a partner in investment banking and natural leading independent oil and gas international oil and gas Dickson Minto W. S. a UK resources experience, especially exploration and production group.
Ian held a number of corporate law firm.
Simon held investment senior positions at BP including 30 years experience of UK and Committee membership banking roles before he joined group vice president for planning, international corporate and EHS Committee.
the Anglo American Group in commercial director of the supply energy transactions and has been Other directorships and offices 1995 where he held a number and trading business, upstream the principal legal adviser to Aidan is a director of Traidlinks, of senior positions.
In 2005, he CFO, vice president of finance, Tullow since 1986.
He was an Irish-based charity established became an executive director US CFO and a business unit appointed General Counsel in to develop and promote enterprise of Anglo American plc, a position leader in Alaska.
Prior to joining 2004 and Company Secretary in and diminish poverty in the he held until leaving in 2007.
BP, he qualified as an accountant 2008. developing world, particularly with Coopers & Lybrand.
He is a member of the Nominations Chairman, UCD Michael Smurfit Graduate Remuneration and Business School, Dublin.
Other directorships and offices Simon is currently a non-executive director of Newmont Mining Corporation USA, Sandvik AB Sweden and AMEC plc UK.
More information 96 90 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4 PAUL McDADE ANGUS McCOSS DAVID BAMFORD ANN GRANT Chief Operating Officer Exploration Director Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Age: 49 Age: 51 Age: 66 Age: 64 Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British Tenure: 6 years Tenure: 6 years Tenure: 8 years Tenure: 4 years Term of office: Rolling 1 year Term of office: Rolling 1 year Term of office: 3 years Term of office: 3 years Service contract: Service contract: Letter of appointment: Letter of appointment: Dated 29 March 2006 Dated 18 April 2006 Dated 30 June 2010 Dated 19 April 2011 Re-election to Board: Annual Re-election to Board: Annual Re-election to Board: Annual Re-election to Board: Annual Paul McDade was appointed to Angus McCoss was appointed David Bamford was appointed Ann Grant was appointed as the Board in 2006.
Paul joined to the Board in December 2006. as a non-executive Director in a non-executive Director in Tullow in 2001 and was appointed He is a geologist with a BP 2004.
With a PhD in Geological May 2008.
She joined the UK Chief Operating Officer following sponsored PhD and, prior to Sciences, he has had over 23 Diplomatic Service in 1971: the Energy Africa acquisition in joining Tullow in April 2006 as years exploration experience from 1998, she worked at the 2004, having previously managed General Manager Exploration, with BP where he was chief Foreign and Commonwealth Tullows UK gas business.
he had 21 years of wide-ranging geophysicist from 1990 to 1995, Office in London as Director for An engineer with over 25 years exploration experience, working general manager for West Africa Africa and the Commonwealth, experience, he has worked in primarily with Shell in Africa, from 1995 to 1998, and acted and from 2000 to 2005 was various operational, commercial Europe, China, South America as vice president, exploration, British High Commissioner and management roles with and the Middle East.
He held a directing BPs global exploration to South Africa.
He has number of senior positions within programme, from 2001 to 2003.
Committee membership broad international experience Shell including Americas Regional Committee membership Audit and Nominations having worked in the UK North Vice President Exploration and Remuneration Chairman, Committees.
Sea, Latin America, Africa and General Manager of Exploration Nominations and Other directorships and offices South East Asia and holds in Nigeria.
In 2005, Ann joined Standard degrees in Civil Engineering Other directorships and offices Other directorships and offices Chartered Bank focusing on and Petroleum Engineering.
Angus is currently a David is a director or adviser its Africa business.
She is a Committee membership non-executive Director of Ikon to several small companies, Board member of the Overseas EHS Committee.
Science Limited and a member including his own consultancy, Development Institute, an of the Advisory Board of the and he writes regularly for independent trustee on the industry-backed Energy and journals such as OilVoice and UK Disasters Emergency Geoscience Institute of the ROGTEC.
He co-founded Finding Committee and a Council University of Utah.
Petroleum and OilEdge as Member of the London School vehicles for online communication of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine in the oil and gas industry.
and the Rift Valley Institute.
com 91 BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED 2012 Board time TUTU AGYARE STEVE LUCAS ANNE DRINKWATER Strategy 32.5% Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Age: 50 Age: 58 Age: 57 Financial management 15.0% Nationality: Ghanaian Nationality: British Nationality: British Corporate governance 12.5% Tenure: 2 years Tenure: 11 months Tenure: 7 months D&O 15.0% Term of office: 3 years Term of office: 3 years Term of office: 3 years Letter of appointment: Letter of appointment: Letter of appointment: E&A 7.5% Dated 24 August 2010 Dated 13 March 2012 Dated 24 July 2012 EHS 10.0% Re-election to Board: Annual Re-election to Board: Annual Re-election to Board: Annual Tutu Agyare was appointed as a Steve Lucas was appointed as a Anne Drinkwater was appointed HR 5.0% non-executive Director in August non-executive Director in March as a non-executive Director in 2010.
Anne had a long career Stakeholder management 2.5% partner at Nubuke Investments, by profession, Steve was Finance at BP where she held a number an asset management firm Director at National Grid plc from of senior business and operations focused solely on Africa, which 2002 to 2010 and has significant positions including President he founded in 2007.
Previously, expertise in energy and power, and CEO of BP Canada Energy he had a 21-year career with infrastructure finance and Company, Group Vice President UBS Investment Bank, holding a treasury.
Previously, he worked managing non-technical risk, number of senior positions, most for 11 years at Royal Dutch Shell President of BP Indonesia and recently as the head of European and for six years at BG Group, Managing Director of BP Norway.
emerging markets, and a latterly as Group Treasurer.
She holds a BSc in applied member of the Board.
Committee membership brings a wealth of experience Anne has a strong commercial Audit Chairman and to the Tullow Board as the Group and business development Remuneration Committees.
continues to expand its business background in the sector and Other directorships and offices in Africa.
He has a degree in has expertise in governance From 2004 until 2011 he was mathematics and computing.
a non-executive Director of Committee membership Committee membership Compass Group plc where Audit, Nominations and EHS Chairman, Audit and he was chairman of the audit Remuneration Committees.
He is currently a Other directorships and offices non-executive Director of the Other directorships and offices Tutu is a director of the drilling company, Transocean Ltd Anne is a non-executive Director Nubuke Foundation, a USA and Essar Energy plc UK.
of Aker Solutions ASA Norway.
Ghanaian-based cultural and educational foundation.
More information More information 93 86 92 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts
