CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4 APPLYING THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The Board has reviewed the new requirements of the new 2012 Code, which are welcomed, and intends to comply fully with its requirements when preparing its Annual Report for 2013.
The UK Corporate Governance Code Leadership As a UK company with a premium listing on the London Stock The Company is headed by an effective Board which Exchange, Tullow Oil plc is required, under the UK Listing Rules, is collectively responsible for the long-term success to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code published of the Company.
in 2010 the 2010 Code in respect of the year ended The role of the Board 31 December 2012.
The Board sets the Groups strategy, ensuring that the necessary In September 2012, a number of changes were made to the resources are in place to achieve the agreed strategic aims 2010 Code and a new 2012 Code was issued which will apply to and objectives and determines the Companys key policies financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2012.
The Board and reviews management and financial performance.
It is has reviewed the new requirements of the new 2012 Code, which accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery are welcomed, and intends to comply fully with its requirements of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term when preparing its Annual Report for 2013. shareholder value.
To achieve this, the Board directs and monitors the Groups affairs within a framework of controls Copies of both Codes are publicly available on the website which enable risk to be assessed and managed effectively of the Financial Reporting Council at www.
uk through clear procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authorities.
The Board also has responsibility for setting the The 2010 Code provides the standards for good corporate Groups core values and standards of business conduct and for governance in the UK for the period under review.
This corporate ensuring that these, together with the Groups obligations to its governance report describes the manner in which the Company stakeholders, are widely understood throughout the Group.
has applied the principles set out in the 2010 Code during the year.
The main principles of the Code focus on Leadership, Board meetings and visits Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with The core activities of the Board are carried out in scheduled Shareholders and this report follows the same format.
meetings of the Board and its Committees.
These meetings are timed to link to key events in the Companys corporate The Company is also required to disclose whether it has complied calendar and regular reviews conducted of specific business with the more detailed provisions of the Code during the year areas.
Additional meetings and conference calls are arranged and, to the extent it has not done so, to explain any deviations to consider matters which require decisions outside the from them.
It is the Boards view that the Company has complied scheduled meetings.
In addition to the scheduled meetings with all of the provisions of the 2010 Code during the year ended of the Board, two strategy meetings are held annually with 31 December 2012 with one exception.
During 2012, the Board met that the Nominations Committee must be comprised of a on nine occasions of which eight were scheduled meetings.
majority of independent non-executive Directors.
During 2012, there was a period during which the number of independent In order that the Board has the opportunity to see the non-executive Directors excluding the Chairman of the Companys operations overseas, the Board normally holds Company represented only half the Committee membership, at least one Board meeting each year at one of the principal rather than a majority as required by the Code.
This period ran overseas offices of the Group.
This provides senior management from 17 January 2012, when the Committee membership was from across the Group with the opportunity to present to the reduced, to 25 September 2012, being the date on which David Board and to meet the Board members informally.
It also Bamford was re-appointed to the Committee.
During this period, provides the Board with an opportunity to meet a broad crossmeetings of the Nominations Committee were held at which section of staff and to assess senior managers at first hand.
all members of the Committee were present and at which the Although no overseas visit was arranged in 2012, the Board has appointment of new non-executive Directors was recommended agreed that a Board visit be made to Kenya in 2013.
Following David Bamfords re-appointment to the during 2012 in his first year as Chairman, Simon Thompson Committee on 25 September 2012, the Board considers that made several visits to overseas offices accompanied by the Company was fully compliant with the provisions of the Executive Directors.
The offices he visited included Accra, Code, having addressed this temporary departure from the Cape Town, Dublin, Kampala, Nairobi and Takoradi.
com 115 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Outside the scheduled meetings of the Board, the Chairman Attendance at meetings and Chief Executive Officer maintain frequent contact with the The attendance of Directors at the eight scheduled meetings other Directors to discuss any issues of concern they may have of the Board held during 2012 was as follows: relating to the Group or their areas of responsibility, and to 1 Meetings attended keep them fully briefed on the Groups operations.
of meetings attended Matters reserved Simon Thompson 8 The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved that can only be decided by the Board.
This schedule is reviewed Aidan Heavey 8 by the Board each year.
The key matters reserved are the Tutu Agyare 8 consideration and approval of: David Bamford 8 The Groups overall strategy: 2 Anne Drinkwater 4 Financial statements and dividend policy: Ann Grant 8 Borrowings and treasury policy: 3 Steve Lucas 6 Material acquisitions and disposals, material contracts, Graham Martin 8 major capital expenditure projects and budgets: Angus McCoss 8 Entry into new countries: Paul McDade 8 Risk management and internal controls supported by the 4 Steven McTiernan 8 Audit Committee : Ian Springett 8 Succession planning and appointments supported by the 5 David Williams 3 Nominations Committee : 1.
The table shows attendance at scheduled Board meetings.
In addition The Groups corporate governance and compliance one ad hoc meeting was held during the year to review and approve the arrangements: and submission of the Plan of Development for the TEN field development.
Anne Drinkwater was appointed as a Director on 25 July 2012 and has attended every scheduled Board meeting since her appointment.
Summary of the Boards work in the year 3.
Steve Lucas was appointed as a Director on 14 March 2012 and has During 2012, the Board considered all relevant matters within attended every scheduled Board meeting since his appointment.
its remit, but focused in particular on the following key issues: 4.
Steven McTiernan retired as a Director on 31 December 2012.
David Williams retired as a Director on 16 May 2012.
Strategy and management with a particular focus on future exploration and appraisal strategy: Resolving the production issues in the Jubilee field: Division of responsibilities There is a defined separation of the responsibilities between Environment, Health and Safety: Simon Thompson, the non-executive Chairman and Aidan Finance and risk management: Heavey, the Chief Executive Officer which has been set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is primarily Regulatory and compliance: responsible for the effective working of the Board, whilst the Appointments and succession planning.
There are Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the operational more details in the Nominations Committee report management of the business, for developing strategy in on pages 96 and 97: and consultation with the Board and for implementation of the strategy.
The Chairman On appointment as Chairman on 1 January 2012, Simon Thompson met the independence criteria set out in the Code.
Non-executive Directors The non-executive Directors bring a broad range of business and commercial experience to the Company and have a particular responsibility to challenge independently and constructively the performance of the Executive management and to monitor the 116 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4 performance of the management team in the delivery of the Effectiveness agreed objectives and targets.
As part of this responsibility, the Composition of the Board non-executive Directors meet at least twice a year without the The Board currently comprises a Chairman, Chief Executive Executive Directors present.
Separately, the Chairman and Chief Officer, four other Executive Directors and five independent Executive Officer hold informal meetings with the non-executive non-executive Directors.
Biographical details of the Board Directors to discuss current issues affecting the Group.
members are set out on pages 90 to 92.
David Bamford replaced Steven McTiernan as Senior Independent The Directors are of the view that the Board and its Committees Director with effect from 1 January 2013 upon the retirement consist of Directors with an appropriate balance of skills, of Steven McTiernan as a Director on 31 December 2012.
In this experience, independence and diversity of background to enable capacity David Bamford is available to meet shareholders if they them to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with The following changes in Board composition were made during the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer the year.
On 14 March 2012, Steve Lucas was appointed as a or for which such contact is inappropriate.
On 16 May 2012 David Williams retired Efforts are made to ensure that the non-executive Directors as a non-executive Director having been on the Board for six are briefed on the more technical and operational aspects of years.
On 25 July 2012, Anne Drinkwater joined as a nonour activities, such as major offshore development projects executive Director, and on 31 December 2012, Steve McTiernan e. g TEN, and our extensive exploration programme.
Those retired as a non-executive Director having been on the Board non-executive Directors with particular expertise in these for ten years.
areas meet regularly with the Chief Operating Officer and the Independence Exploration Director when they are able to contribute more The Board considers each of the non-executive Directors to fully at in-depth discussions.
be independent in character and judgement.
Notwithstanding Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a term of that, Steven McTiernan, Senior Independent Director until his three years, which may, subject to satisfactory performance and retirement on 31 December 2012, had served on the Board re-election by shareholders, be extended by mutual agreement.
The Board was fully satisfied that he demonstrated complete independence, robustness of character Delegated authorities and judgement both in this designated role and as a Board Board Committees member during the year.
The Board is of the view that no The Board has delegated matters to three Committees, individual or group of individuals dominates decision making.
namely the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
The memberships, roles and activities of these are detailed Appointments to the Board in separate reports: the Audit Committee on page 93, the The Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing Nominations Committee on page 96, and the Remuneration the structure, size and composition of the Board and Committee on pages 98.
Each Committee reports to, and has making recommendations to the Board with regard its terms of reference reviewed and approved annually by, the to any changes required.
Reports of the issues considered at meetings of the Commitment Committees are made to the Board by the respective All Directors have disclosed to the Board any other significant Committee Chairmen.
commitments and confirmed that they have sufficient time to Executive Committee effectively discharge their duties.
The Board delegates authority for the management of the day-to-day business and operational matters to the Chief Executive Officer and the other Executive Directors who form the Executive Committee.
This Committee, chaired by the CEO, meets weekly and is responsible for implementing Group strategy and monitoring the detailed performance of all aspects of the business.
A committee of other senior executives generally also meets on a weekly basis to enable prompt discussion of day-to-day business issues.
Individual Delegations In addition to delegating certain matters to Board Committees, the Board also has delegated certain operational and management matters to individual Executive Directors.
com 117 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Company Secretary The Company Secretary is Graham Martin, who is also an STEVE LUCAS & ANNE DRINKWATER Executive Director and General Counsel.
He is available to INDUCTION PROGRAMME Directors to provide advice and is responsible for ensuring A tailored induction programme was established for both that all Board procedures are complied with.
As with all Anne Drinkwater and Steve Lucas on their joining the Board Board positions, this combined role is regularly reviewed.
In addition to one-to-one meetings with key The Company Secretary is supported by a Deputy Company personnel they plan to visit overseas offices during 2013.
Secretary in the provision of company secretarial services to the Group.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as secretary All new non-executive Directors to the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees and has direct access to the Chairmen of these Committees.
From receive an induction that is specific May 2012, Board and Board Committee papers were circulated to their experience and knowledge to all Directors on iPads ensuring fast, timely and secure provision of information to Board members.
as soon as practicable on joining the Board.
Board evaluation In November 2012, the Board appointed Steven McTiernan, Simon Thompson Chairman the Senior Independent Director, to undertake the evaluation.
The appointment reflected the importance attached by Simon Thompson to obtaining frank and honest feedback on his performance at the end of his first year as Chairman.
Mr Training and development needs McTiernan conducted a review of the Board and each of its Induction Committees by means of a questionnaire broadly similar to the All new Directors receive an induction as soon as practicable on one used in 2011 and structured interviews.
The results were joining the Board.
This is tailored to their previous background, summarised in a report, discussed at the Board and an action experience and knowledge of the upstream oil industry plan agreed.
Separately, Simon Thompson had interviews with generally, and Tullow in particular.
This includes one-to-one each member of the Board to give feedback on their individual meetings with Senior Management, functional and business performance and to agree personal development plans for the unit heads and, where appropriate, visits to the Groups principal coming year.
The Company Secretary also provides The conclusions of the report are summarised in the Chairmans new Directors with an overview of their duties as Directors, Introduction to Corporate Governance on page 86 and have been corporate governance policies and Board processes as part reflected in the Board Objectives for 2013, set out on page 88, of the induction process.
reflect the action plan and priorities agreed by all the Directors.
Familiarisation and development All members of the Board have access to appropriate An externally facilitated evaluation of the Board will be professional development courses in respect of their obligations conducted in 2013. and duties as Directors, and during the year Directors attended external seminars on relevant topics relating to the business.
In addition to business updates, the Board and Committees Board performance evaluation receive ongoing briefings including updates on governance and regulatory issues to ensure Board members remain up to date with current regulations and developments.
THE SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Information and support Independent advice Directors have access to independent professional advice BOARD DIRECTORS COMMITTEE CHAIRMEN at the Companys expense on any matter relating to their responsibilities.
PERFORMANCE REPORTS FEEDBACK ISSUES IDENTIFIED ACTION PLAN AGREED BY BOARD 118 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4 Re-Election The Board has ultimate responsibility for the effectiveness All Directors seek re-election on an annual basis and of the Groups risk management activities and internal control accordingly all Directors will stand for re-election in 2013. processes.
Any system of internal control can provide only The Board has set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material financial its reasons for supporting the re-election of each of the irregularities will be detected or that the risk of failure to Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
achieve business objectives is eliminated.
The Boards objective is to ensure Tullow has appropriate systems in place for the Accountability identification and management of risks.
The Board is committed to providing shareholders with a clear assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
This is The Board receives reports from business unit and corporate achieved through this report and as required in other periodic teams throughout the year to enable it to assess on an ongoing financial and trading statements.
basis the effectiveness of the system of internal controls and risk management.
The arrangements established by the Board for the application of risk management and internal control principles are detailed During the year, the Group Internal Audit Manager reviewed on pages 44-51 and page 119 respectively.
The Board has a number of areas of risk and his findings were reported to delegated to the Audit Committee oversight of the relationship the Audit Committee.
No significant weaknesses were identified.
with the Groups external auditors as outlined in the Audit The Board has confirmed that through its Audit Committee Committee report on page 95. it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal financial, operational and compliance controls and risk Going concern management, and considers that the system of internal The Group closely monitors and manages its liquidity risk.
controls operated effectively throughout the financial year and Cash forecasts are regularly produced and sensitivities are run up to the date on which the financial statements were signed.
for different scenarios including, but not limited to, changes in commodity prices, different production rates from the Groups Remuneration producing assets and delays to development projects.
In addition The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee to the Groups operating cash flows, portfolio management responsibility for agreeing the remuneration policy for the opportunities are reviewed to potentially enhance the financial Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Directors and capacity and flexibility of the Group are regularly reviewed.
The Directors remuneration report on pages Groups forecasts, taking into account reasonably possible 98 to 114 contains full details of the role and activities of the changes as described above, show that the Group will be able to Remuneration Committee.
operate within its current debt facilities and have significant Relations with Shareholders financial headroom for the 12 months from the date of approval Communication and dialogue of the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts.
Communication with our shareholders has always been of Internal controls high importance and the Executive team dedicate significant The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups time and resources in this area.
Regular dialogue is maintained and the Companys systems of internal control, which are with our shareholders through meetings, presentations, designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and to ensure conferences and ad hoc events with institutional investors the reliability of financial information for both internal use and and sell-side analysts.
During 2012, Executive Directors and external publication and to comply with the Turnbull Committee Senior Management travelled to meet institutional investors in guidance.
The Groups internal control procedures require the UK, Ireland, Germany, France, Switzerland, Scandinavia, technical, financial and Board approval for all projects.
All Benelux, Ghana, South Africa and North America.
Over the major expenditures require Senior Management approval year, the Investor Relations team and Senior Management at the appropriate stages of each transaction.
Overall control met some 350 institutions and the Group also participated in is ensured by a regular detailed reporting system covering 13 investor conferences.
both technical progress of projects and the state of the Groups Following Tullows successful listing on the Ghana Stock financial affairs.
The Board has put in place procedures for Exchange in July 2011, the first Ghana Investor Forum took place identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks that in May 2012 with the CEO and General Counsel presenting to key face the Group.
Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral institutional shareholders in Accra.
With over 10,000 Ghanaian part of the annual planning cycle.
Each business unit documents shareholders, the Group recognises the importance of continued its strategic objectives and the significant risks in achieving shareholder engagement and another Investor Forum is them and regularly reports on progress against these objectives.
Key risks are also reported monthly to the Board.
There is a comprehensive budgeting and planning system for all items of expenditure with an annual budget approved by the Board.
Actual results are reported against budget on a monthly basis.
Revised financial forecasts for the year and financial projections for future years are regularly prepared.
com 119 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Group issues its results and other news releases via the The Chairman met a number of shareholders during the year London Stock Exchanges Regulatory News Service.
In addition, and is available to meet institutional shareholders to discuss these news releases are published on the Media and Investor any issues and concerns in relation to the Groups governance Relations sections of the Groups website: www.
Non-executive Directors also have the opportunity The Group also provides updates and the status of exploration to attend meetings with major shareholders and are available and development programmes on the website and via social to attend if requested to do so.
Tullow completed a four-day media service Twitter: www.
Socially Responsible Investing SRI roadshow in London, Shareholders and other interested parties can subscribe Edinburgh, Paris and Geneva in October 2012 where the to receive these news updates by email by registering online Group Environmental, Health and Safety, External Relations on the website.
The Group continually seeks to enhance its and Investor Relations Managers met 18 institutional investors online communications with its stakeholders and improved to discuss a number of topics including health and safety, the functionality is regularly implemented across the corporate site.
environment, corporate governance, bribery and corruption The number of visitors to the corporate website significantly issues, country and political risk and operational matters.
increased in 2012 with over 420,000 unique website visits The team also met several SRI fund managers upon request 24% increase on prior year and over 2.7 million page views throughout the year.
The 2011 12 Corporate Responsibility 7% increase on prior year.
The Group also gained a Report was issued in July 2012 and was also made available considerable number of followers on its corporate Twitter in full HTML format on the corporate website.
c. 6,000, Facebook c. 3,000, YouTube c. 17,000 views and Constructive use of the AGM LinkedIn accounts c. 15,000.
Early in 2013, the Group launched The AGM provided individual shareholders with the opportunity an Investor Relations and Media App that can be downloaded to to receive a business presentation and to put questions to tablet and smartphone devices to enable a wider audience to the Chairman, the Chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and view results announcements, presentations, videos, webcasts Remuneration Committees and to other members of the Board.
Tullow continues to hold a significant shareholder base in Tullow did not hold a Capital Markets Day in 2012.
However, Ireland and holds a business presentation in Dublin following an event will be held in the second quarter of 2013.
Sell-side the AGM to maintain strong links with this group of investors.
analysts will be invited to the event with those unable to attend A poll was used to vote for all resolutions at the 2012 AGM with in person able to access all the materials via the website and the final results which included all votes cast for, against and newly launched IR and Media App.
those withheld announced via the London Stock Exchange and In January 2012, the Group concluded a review of its corporate on the Companys corporate website as soon as practicable after brokers.
Following submissions from eight banks, Barclays the meeting.
Notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least and Morgan Stanley in London were appointed as joint 20 working days before the meeting.
corporate brokers, with Davy retaining their role as On behalf of the Board corporate brokers in Dublin.
Simon R Thompson Chairman 12 February 2013 Key shareholder engagements 2013 July January March Half year trading statement Full year trading statement Annual Report and Accounts Half year results February May November Full year results Annual General Meeting in London Interim Management Interim Management Statement Statement Meeting of shareholders in Dublin 120 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4 ONLINE COMMUNICATION Our main corporate website has key information about our business, operations, investors, media, corporate responsibility and our people.
420,000 VISITS IN 2012 NEW 24% from 2011 In early 2013, Tullow launched an Investor Relations and Media app fo or r Financial results, events, corporate reports, webcasts tablets and smart phones to enable e and fact books are all stored our central reporting hub.
easy access to a suite of investor materials.
Scan the QR code to find 2012 Annual Report and Accounts our more and download the app.
com ara2012 Mobile Reporting Centre Live news and share price www.
com reports information on your phone.
com tullowoilplc 6,000 FOLLOWERS 17,000 VIEWS 3,700 LIKES 14,000 FOLLOWERS www.
