NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Nominations Committee membership The Committee o versaw Meetings attended the recruitment of two Period of membership out of a total Committee member in 2012 possible new Directors in 2012, Current who bring the skills and Simon Thompson Full Year 3 3 experience needed to Chair lead the next phase Tutu Agyare 1-17 Jan N A of Tullows growth.
David Bamford 1-17 Jan 1 1 25 Sept-31 Dec Ann Grant Full Year 3 3 Dear Shareholder Past We are committed to appointing, retaining and developing an 1 experienced leadership team that can appropriately manage Aidan Heavey Full Year 3 3 Tullows growing business.
The Board includes a balance of 2 Steven McTiernan Full Year 3 3 Executive and non-executive Directors who bring a broad David Williams 1-17 Jan N A range of industry experience and skills.
Current members are at the date of this report.
The Board was refreshed in 2012 following the retirement of 1.
Stood down from the Committee on 31 December 2012.
David Williams and Steve McTiernan after six and 10 years of 2.
Ceased to be a member of the Committee upon retiring from the Board service respectively.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank on 31 December 2012. each of them for their contribution and commitment to Tullow.
I would also like to welcome our two non-executive Directors, Steve Lucas and Anne Drinkwater who were appointed in Committees role March and July 2012 respectively.
The Nominations Committee The Committee reviews the composition and balance of the identified and recommended both Steve and Anne for their Board and Senior Executive team on a regular basis to ensure extensive industry experience and expertise in their relevant that Tullow has the right structure, skills and experience in fields.
Biographies of all the members of the Board can be place for the effective management of the Groups expanding found on pages 90 to 92 of this report.
This analysis is reviewed and discussed with the Board, with the aim of scheduling a progressive refreshment of the Board.
It is the Committees policy when conducting a search for a new Executive or a non-executive Director to appoint external search consultants to provide the Committee Simon Thompson with a list of possible candidates against an agreed role and Chairman of the Nominations Committee experience specification from which a shortlist is produced.
12 February 2013 The Committee's terms of reference are reviewed annually and can be accessed on the corporate website.
Main responsibilities The main duties are: 2012 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE HIGHLIGHTS The Board was refreshed in 2012 following the Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board appointment of Steve Lucas and Anne Drinkwater and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes required: The appointment of Anne Drinkwater is a positive step towards our aspiration to achieve greater diversity on Succession planning for Directors and other the Board senior executives: Good progress has been made in regards to succession Identifying and nominating, for Board approval, candidates planning in 2012 and the Committee worked closely to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: with the Executives to review the senior management Reviewing annually the time commitment required talent pool and ensure appropriate development plans of non-executive Directors: and are in place Making recommendations to the Board regarding The Committee starts 2013 with new membership as membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees Tutu Agyare was appointed from 1 January 2013 and in consultation with the Chairman of each Committee.
Aidan Heavey stepped down at the end of 2012 96 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4 Committee membership Board diversity The Board currently consists of five The Committee currently comprises four non-executive Executive Directors including the CEO and six nonDirectors and met on three occasions during 2012.
Simon executive Directors including the Chairman.
Two of the six Thompson was Chairman of the Committee throughout non-executive Directors are women, but all of the Executive the year.
The membership and attendance of members Directors are male, reflecting the relatively low level of at Committee meetings held in 2012 are shown in the gender diversity amongst the senior management of other table on page 96.
In addition to the three formal meetings, companies in the oil and gas industry generally.
In order to Committee members conducted a number of interviews, meet with the aspiration set out in the 2011 Davies Report informal discussions and telephone conversations on Women on Boards that women should make up 25% of various issues falling within its remit.
board positions by 2015, we would have to restrict future Board appointments to women only or significantly Aidan Heavey stood down as a member of the Nominations restructure the size and composition of the Board.
We do not Committee on 31 December 2012 at the same time as regard either of these actions as being in the best interests Stephen McTiernan retired as a Director of the Company.
Accordingly, we will seek to address the Tutu Agyare was appointed to the Nominations Committee problem of lack of diversity in senior management positions, with effect from 1 January 2013. as described in the Chairmans Introduction to Corporate Governance in page 86, but recognise that we are unlikely to Committee activities during 2012 and subsequent achieve our aspiration of 25% female representation by 2015. to the year-end Board refreshment In early 2012, in order to provide Senior management succession planning The Committee continuity during the transition of the Chairman, the and the Board have been closely involved with Executive Committee recommended to the Board that Steven McTiernan, Directors in reviewing the senior management talent pool the Senior Independent Director SID, should continue in within Tullow.
The aim is to ensure that all candidates, and that role until 31 December 2012.
Mr McTiernan retired from particularly those who would increase the diversity of the the Board on 31 December 2012 and was replaced as SID senior management pool, have personal development plans by David Bamford.
The Committee has commenced a search designed to provide them with the knowledge and skills for a new non-executive Director to replace Mr McTiernan.
required to progress within the Group.
Spencer Stuart has been appointed to draw up a list of Board Committee membership The Committee is candidates against an agreed specification.
responsible for nominating appropriate individuals for On 12 March 2012, the Board approved the recommendation membership of the Boards Committees.
During the year, of the Committee that Steve Lucas be appointed as a a number of changes were made to the composition of the non-executive Director with effect from 14 March 2012 and Board Committees to ensure that they comprise of individuals as Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from 16 May with the necessary skills, knowledge and experience.
2012, following the retirement of David Williams.
The Zygos Committee evaluation The performance of the Committee Partnership assisted with the search.
Steve Lucas biography was evaluated as part of the annual Board evaluation is set out on page 92. exercise and was found to be operating effectively.
On 19 July 2012, the Board approved a recommendation by the Committee that Anne Drinkwater be appointed as a non-executive Director with effect from 25 July 2012.
Curzon Partners assisted with the search.
Anne Drinkwaters biography is set out on page 92. www.
