CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED GOVERNANCE Speaking up We encourage our people to raise issues or concerns internally 2012 HIGHLIGHTS or via the independent, external speaking up line and promote Over 60% of staff attended the Code awareness of these channels.
18 speaking up cases were raised awareness programme: leading to 16 investigations.
This led to two employees and 12 members of contract staff leaving the Group.
Successful independent assessment of our Anti-Bribery and Corruption programme: and Bribery and corruption risk management Network of compliance champions established.
We continue to assess our bribery and corruption risks across the Group and implement appropriate due diligence processes.
Our key bribery and corruption risks include those related to In 2012, we made good progress in enhancing our Anti-Bribery business opportunities in new or existing areas, joint ventures and Corruption ABC programme.
The programme comprises and farm-ins, major capital projects such as TEN in Ghana of the Group-wide implementation of Tullows Code of Business and where we interface with foreign public officials.
Conduct, associated policies and extensive communications and awareness raising.
It not only helps us address the requirements Compliance Committee of the UK Bribery Act, but importantly is the right thing to do and A Compliance Committee was formed at the beginning of 2012. strengthens our social licence to operate.
A number of initiatives Chaired by Graham Martin, the General Counsel and comprised were undertaken in support of this programme, including the of a cross-section of senior management and Ann Grant, a introduction of an annual certification process and the Non-executive Director, the Committee met three times during establishment of a network of compliance champions.
the year and endorsed the compliance strategy and operational plan.
It also provided valuable input throughout the year to Embedding our Code of Business Conduct ensure that compliance and ethics risks are identified and With strong Executive leadership, a Group-wide Code properly mitigated.
awareness programme was launched at the start of the year.
To date, over 1,100 permanent and contract staff have attended, representing over 60% of our workforce.
All members of the Executive and the Board have participated in the half-day awareness session.
Our Code of Business Conduct was translated for our French-speaking countries, such as INDUSTRY Mauritania and Gabon.
PARTNER FORUMS ON Independent review of our ABC programme BRIBERY & In order to measure the effectiveness of our ABC programme CORRUPTION we asked the Good Corporation to independently review and benchmark us against a formal framework.
The outcome of this review was favourable and their report indicated that overall we compared well against the average of other companies who had been assessed.
The recommendations from this benchmarking study will be incorporated into our 2013 compliance plan.
The behaviours and actions including the UK Bribery Act of our industry partners who 2010, and outlined Tullows provide goods and services compliance expectations for us are key, as they of industry partners.
It also Code awareness programme attendance contribute to our success covered the importance of and good reputation.
In due diligence, the effects Attended 60% 2012, we held industry of non-compliant behaviour Yet to attend 40% partner forums in and details of Tullows Bangladesh and Kenya confidential reporting line.
involving 89 companies from a variety of sectors.
The Photo above: Attendees at forum provided an overview Tullow Compliance and Ethics of anti-bribery legislation, Forum held in Nairobi, Kenya.
76 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts
