CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION CONTINUED Stakeholder relations in each of the countries where we have operations.
In 2012, The oil industry in Africa suffers from a poor reputation, we held our second Multi-Stakeholder Forum, where we were sometimes with good reason.
In some of the countries where able to obtain valuable feedback on EHS activities and strategy.
we operate there is a fundamental lack of trust that inhibits the During 2012, over 60% of our total workforce, including all development of good government-business relations and limits members of the Board and those people identified as holding the effectiveness of partnerships with other stakeholder groups.
high risk positions, undertook training on the Tullow Code of There is no short-cut to resolving this issue.
The only thing Business Conduct and we continue to roll out the programme that we can do is to work hard at building relationships and to our suppliers.
We have arranged seminars on the oil industry for journalists To this end, we continue to undertake an active programme in nascent oil countries, to better inform the public debate of engagement with national and local politicians, NGOs, on the development of the industry.
We continue to invest in community organisations and the business community 2012 Board objectives 2012 performance Strategy The receipt of the Uganda sale proceeds allowed for a more Annual strategy review to focus on risk management: resource comprehensive review of strategy at the two-day Board offsite and at allocation within the portfolio of exploration, appraisal and regular Board meetings.
A substantial part of the Boards discussions development projects: and building organisational capacity to focused on strategy, particularly resource allocation.
At each meeting meet our growth expectations.
the Board received an extensive briefing on current and prospective exploration opportunities, and updates on development projects.
Strategy to be regularly updated, incorporating external views on economic and political developments in host countries.
Risk management New country entry assessment and approval processes improved Continue to ensure that the Groups financial and operating risks significantly during the year with greater emphasis being placed are identified and that adequate systems and processes are in on understanding the social impact challenges in countries where place to monitor and mitigate them, with a particular focus on: Tullow has current and expected future large-scale operations, especially onshore.
Restructuring the business into three 1.
External stakeholder relationships: Regional Units has allowed more focus on particular areas 2.
Portfolio management: and identified the need for additional capacity and expertise, 3.
Improving quality of Board reporting on evolving risks: recruitment for which is well underway.
EHS and asset integrity: and 6.
Maintaining and enhancing the Tullow culture.
Succession planning Considerable progress was made this year on succession Improve quality of succession planning for the Board and planning for the Executive Directors with an extensive presentation senior management.
on the topic at the Board offsite and as a result appropriate plans were agreed, but they will be kept under regular review.
Personal Implement succession plan for the chair of the Audit Committee development plans are also being prepared for most of the senior and two other non-executive Directors.
managers, and succession planning encouraged with particular focus where appropriate on localisation.
Board committees The Remuneration Committee was particularly active this year Review remuneration structure and KPIs to ensure alignment in redesigning a new and simplified remuneration structure with evolving strategic objectives and risk management.
for the Executives and senior management, to ensure retention of our successful team, to align with our strategic objectives Agree strategy and criteria for Director succession at the full Board.
and the interests of our shareholders.
Reduce size of Nominations Committee and use it to execute the agreed strategy.
Board visibility, engagement and communication With the increasing profile of Tullow in key areas of our operations Ensure appropriate frequency of Board level interactions with and with the increased staff numbers, the Board is keenly aware employees, key decision makers and other opinion formers of the importance of communications with all stakeholders, and in countries of operation.
the Directors have continued to find ways of engaging with them appropriately.
The Executives held actual and virtual town hall and Review Talk Back staff climate survey and take other staff meetings in various offices throughout the year and appropriate actions.
engaged in formal and informal settings with government officials and other key stakeholders.
On occasions they were accompanied by the Chairman and other non-executive Directors.
Board procedures Enhancements to Board meeting processes, changes to Implement electronic distribution of Board papers.
sub-committee structures and leadership, and improved Implement 12 month rolling agenda to enhance Board planning.
corporate governance planning, implemented under the new Chairman in 2012, have been well received.
88 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4 building capacity for our industry through education and determined to uphold our core values of respect and integrity enterprise development.
There are now 93 Tullow scholars from in all of our stakeholder engagements.
We aspire to achieve seven African countries studying subjects relevant to the oil more than just consent.
Over time, we hope to become a industry at UK and other foreign universities.
We opened a new valued member of and contributor to the communities Enterprise Centre for suppliers in Uganda in 2012 and plan to where we operate.
External perception surveys indicate that we are making good progress in countries such as Ghana, where Tullow is wellestablished.
Clearly we have more to do, particularly earning Simon R Thompson the trust of local communities in our new areas of activity.
Chairman As a relatively young company we do not have the legacy issues 12 February 2013 that affect some other companies in our sector and we remain 2013 Board objectives The Boards deliberations were informed by the views of a number Strategy of external presenters, covering issues such as East African politics, Regularly update strategy to maximise value creation, taking into the aid versus investment debate in Africa, corporate developments account external views on political and economic developments in the oil industry and in the City, and an analysis of the environment in host countries.
Ensure adequate time is allocated for Board risks, politics and investment climate in Greenland.
discussions on: The exploration opportunity set: Resource allocation to exploration, appraisal and development projects: As a result of the focus in 2012 on risk management, and the Finance and portfolio management options: and variety of issues to be covered as the organisation grows, a decision was taken to form an EHS Committee to be chaired Maintaining operating cost and capital discipline.
by one of the non-executive Directors, devoted to monitoring Risk management personal and process safety, community health and Continue to ensure that appropriate systems and processes exist to the environment.
identify, monitor and manage evolving risks, with a particular focus on: Social impacts and external stakeholder relations: Country risk: EHS: Security and human rights: and Two non-executive Directors retired during the year, including Treasury and financing options.
the Audit Committee chairman, and were replaced as a result Governance and values of an external search process and following in each case agreement on a comprehensive role specification to meet the growing needs Maintain and enhance the Tullow culture and values: of the business.
Reinforce compliance with the Tullow Code of Business Conduct: Continue to strengthen internal controls and reporting: Seek shareholder approval for new remuneration policy: and A consultation process on this with our larger shareholders on Form a new EHS Board sub-committee.
this new structure is already well under way.
The Nominations Organisational capacity Committee was also very active in the recruitment of two new non-executive Directors and in starting the search process Continue to build organisational capacity through recruitment, for another.
induction, development, recognition and reward: Ensure organisational design is fit for purpose and evolves to reflect the growth in size and complexity of the business: The Board reviewed the results of the Tullow staff feedback Continue to monitor senior executive development plans to survey and the HR team led workshops at country, business provide succession for all key positions: and and or functional levels as appropriate to discuss the issues Continue to increase the diversity of the management team.
raised and to take appropriate actions.
This remains a continuing Stakeholder engagement key challenge and priority for the business.
Continue to enhance Board-level interaction with shareholders, employees, politicians, key decision-makers, NGOs and other stakeholders: and Arrange Board visit to Kenya.
The move to electronic distribution of Board papers was Board Development successfully implemented early in the year and there is now more Undertake agreed personal development plans: and forward planning of Board agenda items and external presentations, while continuing to allow flexibility for changing circumstances.
Arrange external presentations on agreed topics www.
