CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 4 Audit Committee membership The Committee met Meetings attended on five occasions and Period of membership out of a total Committee member in 2012 possible fully discharged its Current responsibilities 1 Steve Lucas From 14 March 3 3 during the year.
Tutu Agyare Full Year 5 5 2 Anne Drinkwater From 25 July 2 2 Ann Grant Full Year 5 5 Past Dear Shareholder David Bamford To 17 January 1 1 Strong governance is a key feature of the way Tullow manages 3 Steven McTiernan Full Year 4 5 its business and risks.
The Board Audit Committee has a vital 4 role in providing assurance that the financial statements provide David Williams To 16 May 2 2 a true and fair view of the Groups financial affairs and that our Current members are at the date of this report.
internal business control systems remain effective.
Appointed to the Board on 14 March 2012 and as Audit Committee Chairman primary objectives were met through consideration and review on 16 May 2012. of the full-year and half-year results with the External Auditors 2.
Appointed to the Board on 25 July 2012. and through review of the work of Internal Audit and other 3.
Ceased as a member of the Committee on retiring from the Board assurance providers.
Ceased as a member of the Committee on retiring from the Board An objective for 2013 will be to assess the implications of the on 16 May 2012. revised Corporate Governance Code published in late 2012, with a particular focus on changes to Financial Reporting and the Audit Committee requirements.
Governance Steve Lucas was appointed Audit Committee Chairman in May 2012 after David Williams retirement from the Board on 16 May 2012.
Steve, who is a Chartered Accountant, was Finance Director at National Grid plc from 2002 to 2010.
It is a requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code that at least one Committee member has recent and relevant financial Steve Lucas experience.
Steve Lucas therefore meets this requirement.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 12 February 2013 The Chief Financial Officer, the Group Internal Audit Manager, the General Manager Finance, the Deputy Company Secretary and representatives of the External Auditors are invited to attend each meeting of the Committee and participated in all of the meetings during 2012.
The Chairman of the Board also attends 2012 AUDIT COMMITTEE HIGHLIGHTS meetings of the Committee by invitation and was present at all of the meetings in 2012.
The external auditors have unrestricted Approval of half-year and full-year accounts access to the Committee Chairman.
Review of the work and independence of the External Auditor In 2012, the Audit Committee met on five occasions.
Meetings are scheduled to allow sufficient time to enable full discussion Review of independent reserves auditors work of key topics.
Assessment of remit and results of Internal Audit The Committee reviewed its terms of reference during the year.
Assessment of whistle-blowing procedures These are in line with best practice.
The Audit Committee terms of reference can be accessed via the corporate website.
The Oversight of key risks associated with major IT systems Board approved the terms of reference in December 2012. projects and business recovery procedures www.
com 93 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Main responsibilities Internal controls and risk management The Committee fully discharged its responsibilities during Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal the year.
The following describes the Audit Committees control procedures and risk management systems.
main responsibilities and the work conducted in discharging The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the these responsibilities: Groups internal control procedures and risk management Financial statements and formal announcements systems through the work of the internal audit team and Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and formal external auditors and through regular reporting by the announcements relating to the Groups financial performance.
business unit and corporate teams to the Board.
The Committee met with the external auditors as part Internal audit requirements of the full-year and half-year accounts approval process.
Considering how the Groups internal audit requirements shall be satisfied and making recommendations to the Board.
During this exercise the Committee considered the key audit risks identified as being significant to the 2012 accounts and The Group Internal Audit Manager has direct access the most appropriate treatment and disclosure of any new and responsibility to the Audit Committee.
His main or judgemental matters identified during the audit and responsibilities include: evaluating and supporting the half-yearly review as well as any recommendations or development of the Groups overall control environment: observations made by the external auditors.
operating efficiency and risk identification and management at operating, regional and corporate levels.
In fulfilling his Reporting, policies and disclosures role, the Group Internal Audit Manager has direct access to Reviewing the significant financial reporting issues and the Committee without reference to Executive Management.
accounting policies and disclosures in the financial reports.
During 2012, the Group Internal Audit Manager met with the Audit Committee Chairman without the presence of The Group prepares financial statements under International management to discuss the planning of Audit Committee Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The adoption of new meetings and to brief him on the results of the audits and revised Standards and Interpretations during 2012 and completed.
The Group Internal Audit Manager also their impact on the financial statements are described in supported the development of Audit Committee meeting the accounting policies commencing on page 134. agendas with the Chairman with input from the Chief The Audit Committee approved the scope of the work to Financial Officer and General Manager Finance.
be undertaken by the external auditors for half-year and The Committee approved the programme of 2012 internal year-end statutory audits and reviewed and discussed audit work aimed at addressing both financial and overall the external auditors final audit reports.
risk management objectives identified within the Group.
Thirty-seven internal audit reviews were undertaken during the year, covering a range of financial and business Allocation of Audit Committee time processes in the Groups main business units in London, Dublin and Cape Town, and the main operational locations Financial results 45% in Ghana, Uganda and Kenya.
Detailed results from these reviews were reported to management and in summary Internal audit matters 25% to the Audit Committee during the year.
Recommendations Business controls 20% made as a result of the work of Internal Audit are tracked for timely implementation and reported to the Audit Committee Governance compliance periodically.
No significant weaknesses were identified as matters 10% a result of risk management and internal controls reviews undertaken by Internal Audit during 2012.
The Group also undertook regular audits of non-operated joint ventures under the supervision of business unit management and the Group Internal Audit Manager.
94 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4 In addition, the Committee oversees the work of the The Committee closely monitors the level of audit and independent reserves auditors ERCE and the arrangements non-audit services they provide to the Group.
Non-audit in place for managing Information Technology risk relating services are normally limited to assignments that are to the Groups critical information systems.
closely related to the annual audit or where the work is of such a nature that a detailed understanding of the Group External auditors is necessary.
A policy for the engagement of the external Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment or auditors to supply non-audit services is in place to formalise re-appointment of the Groups external auditors and overseeing these arrangements which requires Audit Committee approval the Boards relationship with the external auditors and, where for certain categories of work.
This policy has been reviewed appropriate, the selection of new external auditors.
and updated in line with updated Audit Practice Board Ethical Standards and FRC Guidance to Audit Committees, The UK Corporate Governance Code states that the Audit and is available on the corporate website.
Committee should have primary responsibility for making a recommendation on the appointment, re-appointment or A breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditors in removal of the external auditors.
On the basis of the review respect of audit and non-audit work is included in note of external audit effectiveness, the Committee recommended 3 to the financial statements.
In addition to processes put to the Board that it recommends to shareholders the in place to ensure segregation of audit and non-audit roles, re-appointment of the auditors at the 2013 AGM.
Deloitte LLP is required, as part of the assurance process in relation to the audit, to confirm to the Committee that they The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner have both the appropriate independence and the objectivity responsible for the Group audit every five years.
2012 is to allow them to continue to serve the members of the the first year of the current lead audit partners tenure.
This confirmation was given and no matters The audit contract was last put out to tender in 2004. of concern were identified by the Committee.
The Audit Committee acknowledges the new provision in the 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Whistle-blowing procedure Code in respect of audit tendering and the suggested Ensuring that an effective whistle-blowing procedure is in place.
The new Code applies to the Company from 1 January 2013 and will be reported In line with best practice and to ensure Tullow works to the against in its 2013 Annual Report.
highest ethical standards, an independent whistle-blowing procedure has been in operation during the year to allow The Groups external auditors are Deloitte LLP and the staff to confidentially raise any concerns about business Audit Committee assessed the qualification, expertise practices.
This procedure complements the established and resources, and independence of the external auditors internal reporting process.
The whistle-blowing policy is and the effectiveness of the audit process.
This covered included in the revised Code of Business Conduct which is all aspects of the audit service provided by Deloitte LLP, available on the corporate website.
The Committee considers including obtaining a report on the audit firms own internal the whistle-blowing procedures to be appropriate for the size quality control procedures and consideration of the audit and scale of the Group.
firms annual transparency reports in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Audit Committee also Review of effectiveness of the Audit Committee approved the external audit terms of engagement and During the year, the Audit Committee completed a review of remuneration.
During the 2012 audit process, the Audit the effectiveness of external audit, Internal Audit and of the Committee Chairman met with Deloittes audit engagement Audit Committee itself.
This was conducted through a series partner without the presence of management.
Internal Audit coordinated the review.
The Committee was considered to be operating effectively and in As a result of these reviews, the Audit Committee considered accordance with the guidance recommended by the Smith the external audit process to be operating effectively.
Committee included in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In addition to the questionnaire-based review of effectiveness, the Audit Committee also assessed the qualification, expertise and resources, and independence of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
