Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Corporate governance Effective Governance Dear Shareholders, As previously noted, 2012 has been a challenging year for ABG, the latter half of which being impacted by the prolonged Offer Period applicable to the Company as a result of discussions between China National Gold and Barrick.
Whilst this predominantly impacted the workload of management, it also required a refocusing of Board and certain committee activities, notably the Transaction committee of which I formed part.
Although the sale process was ultimately unsuccessful there were several positive outcomes.
In particular, the intense due diligence process and associated learning have been incorporated into several initiatives which were underway prior to the Offer Period as part of a major review of the Companys structure and costs, culminating in the Boards request for management to perform an Operational Review.
The key objectives of thisare to drive improved returns from the asset base and enhance the A commitment to progressing effective leadership certainty of performance delivery in the future.
and controls for our business environment.
In addition to this, throughout the year we have continued to refine our governance and controls processes and achieved a satisfactory conclusion Derek Pannell, to our overall annual risk management and internal controls assessment.
Acting Chairman of the Board We also completed a performance and effectiveness evaluation for the reporting period, in order to satisfy requirements for annual performance evaluation under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
During the year Mr Dushnisky and Mr McCreary were appointed to the 2012 key activities Board following the departures of Mr Cross and Mr Regent, both of whom r Formation of Transaction committee to oversee matters relating to we thank for their guidance and support in the development of ABG as a anypotential offer for the Company by China National Gold.
Following the expiry of the Offer Period, ABG is in a position to review options for additional Director appointments to build r Review of key requirements and measures for the maintenance of on the strengths and calibre of our existing Board members.
In this regard ordinary business throughout a prolonged Offer Period.
it should be noted that neither I, nor Mr Jennings, will seek re-election r Review of core retention requirements for ABG personnel during atthe forthcoming AGM.
Mr Dushnisky will succeed me as Chairman aprolonged Offer Period.
r Commencement of strategy and risk profile reviews as part of the Looking forward, in 2013 the Board will seek to build upon the progress Operational Review.
made in ABGs governance and controls environment, notably through r Further review of requirements for risk management and operational theimplementation of further measures and procedures to address the processes to support business objectives.
salient aspects of ongoing operational and strategic reviews.
In connection r Annual performance evaluation and effectiveness review.
with this, the Board has recently decided to form a Technical committee, the principal purpose of which will be to supervise and review ABGs planning and capital allocation procedures, the procedures underpinning ABGs Reserves and Resources committee and ABGs exploration programmes.
The Board, under the guidance of Mr Dushnisky, will alsoreview additional requirements introduced by the new edition of theUK Corporate Governance Code, which will apply to the 2013 reportingprocess.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59 Corporate governance continued ABG BUSINESS MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK ABG COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENT ABGs Business Management Framework forms an integral part of our global compliance programme.
It sets out the key Values & Code Mandatory corporate policies, procedures, standards and practices that of Conduct apply to the ABG Group and its business for the management of economic, social, political, environmental, legal and Business Mandatory governance factors affecting our operations.
Management Framework All members of the ABG Group, our material operations, Group Policies, Mandatory support functions, and every ABG Director, officer, employee Procedures & Standards and all other members of ABG personnel are required to comply with the ABG Business Management Framework and Departments Mine Site Rules Mandatory all other guidance and standards that apply to their respective & Requirements Dictated in accordance roles and positions.
Specific obligations also extend to ABG with stated functional and contractors, other associated parties and members of ABG mine site requirements Group Policy supply chains.
Guidelines For use in understanding and implementing compliance obligations BOARD SKILLS Board composition as at 31 December 2012 Board balance As at 31 December 2012, the Board comprised a Non-Executive Acting Chairman, two Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors, Geology ofwhom four were independent.
Engineering Financial Skills and experience African and regional affairs The majority of our Directors have considerable knowledge and experience of the mining industry and bring other relevant experience to the Board toassist ABG in achieving its strategic goals.
Director biographies are provided on pages 56 and 57.
An overview of the composition of Board skills is provided opposite.
We review Board composition regularly to ensure the range and breadth of skills provided as a result of Director appointments remains appropriate for our business.
BOARD COMPOSITION BOARD INDEPENDENCE as at 31 December 2012 as at 31 December 2012 Diversity ABG strives to attract a broad mix of individuals from both the traditional and non-traditional mining labour markets in order to create a diverse workgroup and maintain a unique company culture.
Generally, it is ABGs policy to hire the best candidates for all positions at all levels, irrespective of gender.
We assess all candidates or positions in this context, including candidates for Board appointments.
Board changes during 2012 As previously noted, Mr Dushnisky and Mr McCreary were appointed during the year following Mr Regents departure in June 2012.
In addition Mr Cross stepped down from his position as a Director in March 2012.
Executive Non-independent Non-executive Independent 60 www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RESPONSIBILITIES ACROSS OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK ABGs corporate governance structure is founded on the basis of sound business practice and in accordance with applicable corporate governance standards.
Accordingly, responsibilities are allocated between our Board, its committees, our Senior Leadership Team and other members of senior management to ensure that our business operates as it should on a day to day basis.
BOARD Responsible for the overall management of our organisation and our business sets standards, values, policies ensures we have the resources in monitors and reviews: and strategic aims place to meet our objectives material strategic issues financial performance risk management BOARD COMMITTEES Specific review and oversight functions AUDIT EHS&S COMPENSATION NOMINATION TRANSACTION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE reviews and monitors oversees the development reviewed and monitored sets, reviews and makes recommendations financial statements of strategy and policy on matters in the context recommends overall to the Board on its environmental, CSR and of any potential transaction oversees relationships compensation composition and that security matters relating to ABG shares with external auditors policy and strategy of its committees as a result of Barrick reviews effectiveness of oversees external reviews and discussions with environmental, CSR and audit process approves compensation security management China National Gold arrangements for reviews internal programmes and systems Executive Directors audit plans and senior management SENIOR LEADERSHIP TEAM Day to day management of our business and operations, and responsibility for monitoring detailed performance of all aspects of our business MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES Further support the Board and Senior Leadership Team COMMUNITY INVESTMENT THE DISCLOSURE RESERVES & RESOURCES EXECUTIVE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE PANEL COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GENERAL MANAGERS AND FUNCTIONAL HEADS Work with the Senior Leadership Team to manage our operations and business and to progress business goals Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61 Supported by Senior Leadership Team Corporate governance continued Retirement and re-election or casting vote.
All Directors are required to take decisions objectively andin the best interests of the Company.
Directors appointed by the Board since the 2012 AGM are required to offer themselves for re-election by the shareholders at the 2013 AGM As part of their duties as Directors, ABGs Non-Executive Directors are under the Companys articles of association and we are mindful of expected to apply independent judgement to contribute to issues of requirements for annual re-election under the UK Corporate Governance strategy and performance and to scrutinise the performance of Code.
With the exception of Mr Pannell and Mr Jennings, all Directors management.
will offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board determines that all of these Directors are eligible for re-election.
The Board is scheduled to meet at least four times a year, and at such other times as are necessary to discharge its duties.
The Board met a total of eight Board leadership times in 2012.
Five meetings were held in person at the Companys London Chairman and Chief Executive Officer offices.
Three meetings were held by teleconference.
Details of individual In line with best practice, the roles of Chief Executive Officer and attendance are provided below.
Meetings included a formal strategy review Chairman, and their related responsibilities, are separated.
The divisions with senior management.
Going forward, the Board aims to schedule ofresponsibilities have been set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
meetings to allow for at least one scheduled meeting per year to be held in Tanzania so as to provide the Board with an opportunity to further develop ABGs Chairman and any Acting Chairman is principally responsible for its relationship with senior managers and the wider ABG workforce.
the leadership of the Board and ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in the development and determination of the Companys Board briefings and development strategy and overall commercial objectives.
The Board receives monthly management reports and quarterly reports outlining all material operational, financial and strategic developments.
ABGs Chief Executive Officer is primarily responsible for all executive These ensure that Board members remain properly briefed on the management matters affecting ABG and is principally responsible for performance and financial position of the ABG Group.
Board and running the Companys business.
All members of executive management committee papers are circulated prior to all meetings to allow Directors report directly to him.
tobe briefed in advance of discussions.
All Board meetings include a quarterly business and financial review to ensure that, in addition to Senior Independent Director specific scheduled matters and any other business, core operational As noted below, the position of Senior Independent Director SID matters are reviewed on a continuous basis.
remained vacant during the latter part of the year as a result of the prolonged Offer Period.
We will look to recruit for this position in 2013.
In addition to scheduled Board meetings, all Directors have access tomembers of the Senior Leadership Team and to whatever further Board effectiveness information they need to perform their duties and to satisfy their Board meetings and attendance responsibilities.
ABGs independent Non-Executive Directors and Board decisions are predominantly made by achieving a consensus at committee Chairmen meet with members of the Senior Leadership Team Board meetings.
In exceptional circumstances, decisions may be taken to receive more in-depth briefings on Board and committee matters, bythe majority of Board members.
Questions arising at any meeting are whenever required or requested.
In addition, all Directors continue to have determined by a majority of votes.
In the case of an equality of votes, free access to visit operations outside scheduled Board arrangements.
ABGs articles of association do not provide the Chairman with a second Board and Committee attendance Board Audit Compensation Nomination EHS&S Transaction meetings committee committee committee committee committee Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible Aaron Regent 280 N A26110 N A 0 N A Greg Hawkins 8 8 5 N A 5 N A 1 N A 5 N A 13 13 Kevin Jennings 8 8 5 N A 0 N A 0 N A 0 N A 13 13 Derek Pannell 8 8552 N A 1155 13 13 Andre Falzon 8855660 N A 0 N A 0 N A Stephen Galbraith 8 8 3 N A 1 N A 0 N A 5 N A 0 N A Michael Kenyon 7845560 N A 0 N A 13 13 Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu 7 8 0 N A 0 N A11550 N A David Hodgson 8 8 0 N A 4 6 0 N A 5 5 12 13 Kelvin Dushnisky 480 N A2600030 N A Richard McCreary 4 8 0 N A 0 N A 0 N A 0 N A 0 N A Directors appointed mid-year.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Board training and development needs are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
In compliance with its obligations, the Board conducted an annual Ordinarily, training standards and requirements form part of Board assessment of the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and evaluation criteria.
internal control systems for the reporting period.
The review covered allmaterial controls, including financial, operational and compliance Directors may take independent professional advice, as necessary, at ABGs controls.
In conjunction with ABGs Internal Audit function and members expense in the furtherance of their duties.
In addition to this, each Board of the Senior Leadership Team, the Board conducted a specific assessment committee is entitled to seek independent professional advice at ABGs of internal controls, which considered all significant aspects of internal expense, where necessary, to assist or guide the committee in the control for the reporting period.
During the course of its review of the performance of its functions.
system of internal control, the Board did not identify or hear of any failings or weaknesses that it determined to be material.
Therefore a Summary of the Boards work in 2012 confirmation of any necessary actions undertaken is not required.
The Board focused on the following areas in 2012: Relationship with shareholders r Strategy management Dialogue with the investment community r Operational and financial performance reviews ABG has a designated investor relations team, which acts as the primary point of contact with the investment community and is responsible for r Corporate policy and compliance review maintaining ABGs ongoing relations with investors and shareholders.
r Growth opportunities and exploration project reviews Generally, ABG aims to meet with investors and analysts at least twice ayear to discuss Group performance and respond to queries.
ABG also As part of the corporate policy and compliance reviews the Board, in conducts periodic telephone calls and meetings with the investment collaboration with its committees, commenced a review of specific community to discuss results, and participates in mining conferences to compliance standards in order to progress standards that provide for meet with current and prospective investors.
In addition to its annual and improved alignment with the Companys operating environment and risk half-year reports, ABG publishes quarterly reports to the market, which appetite.
This work will continue into 2013.
In addition, as part of strategy provide further information on production and financial results, and and growth reviews, the Board commenced a further evaluation process updates on its business and operations.
ofall of the Companys growth projects to ensure prioritisation of projects that will drive profitable returns and production levels.
Again, reviews in ABGs investor relations programme was impacted by certain regulatory this area will continue into 2013 as part of ongoing operational and restrictions imposed as a result of a prolonged Offer Period during the strategy reviews.
Succession planning, which was previously affected by second half of 2012. the prolonged Offer Period, will also be progressed further in 2013.
Findings from the 2012 annual performance review will help us to further Majority shareholder refine Board targets for 2013.
ABG was a wholly owned subsidiary of Barrick prior to its IPO in March 2010.
Barrick continues to hold approximately 74% of ABG, making it the Internal control Groups majority shareholder.
As a result of this, ABG continues to have The Board is responsible for the ABG Groups system of internal control access to the Barrick Group for a number of support services and receives and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In line with this strategic shareholder support for its initiatives and goals.
ABGs relationship responsibility, the Board has established ongoing processes and systems with Barrick is governed by the terms of a relationship agreement, the foridentifying, evaluating and managing those significant risks that the principal purpose of which is to ensure that ABG is capable of carrying on Group faces.
ABGs system of internal controls and risk management takes its business independently of the Barrick Group and that transactions and into account the recommendations contained in the Turnbull Guidance relationships with the Barrick Group are conducted at arms length and on onInternal Systems and Controls published by the Financial Reporting normal commercial terms.
The relationship agreement will continue for so Council in October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance.
The system is long as ABG is listed on the London Stock Exchange and Barrick owns or designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve controls at least 15% of ABGs issued share capital or voting rights.
ABGs business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board principally bases its monitoring of internal controls on its review of management reports and assessments and on the quarterly reports it receives on the status of ABGs internal control environment.
This is supported by the risk profile reviews that ABGs Internal Audit function carries out to help the Board identify and manage the most significant risks and events that could affect the Companys operations, financials and performance.
Where necessary, the Board is assisted by its committees in reviewing internal systems and controls, particularly the Audit committee, which is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and financial risk management systems.
An overview of the governance structure used for ABGs approach to risk management and theprocesses and procedures used in the context of risk management is provided as part of the risk management section of thisreport.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63 Corporate governance continued PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The annual performance evaluation of the Board and its committees was conducted under the guidance of the Company Secretary, by way of anonymous questionnaires.
The questionnaire focused on a range of key topics, the findings of which will be used to help formulate key targets and actions for 2013.
BOARD EVALUATION FOCUS COMMITTEE EVALUATION FOCUS Establishment and role Leadership Roles and responsibilities Leadership Compensation, appointments, Strategic aims and objectives Composition, appointments, Procedures and skills, experience and training skills, experience and training internal controls Risk management Attendance at meetings, Attendance, contribution, Procedures and internal controls contribution, internal internal relationships relationships Communication with shareholders and others DISCUSSION WITH COMPANY SECRETARY ASSESSMENT FOR THE COMMITTEES Each Director specifically discussed his evaluation feedback with the The evaluation results were used to produce a performance report for Company Secretary for purposes of discussing individual performance discussion and debate, in order to agree work plans and actions for 2013. and future development needs.
ASSESSMENT FOR THE BOARD KEY PERFORMANCE TARGETS AND ACTIONS FOR 2013 Board evaluation results were used to produce a performance report Assessment of terms of reference, effectiveness of members skills, for presentation to the Board, for purposes of discussion and debate, experience and qualifications.
in order to agree work plans and actions for 2013.
Work plans and actions for 2013 individually set by each committee.
KEY PERFORMANCE TARGETS AND ACTIONS FOR 2013 Development of succession planning.
Further enhancement of risk management procedures.
Progression of strategic and Operational Review.
Review of requirements for ABGs compliance and governance environment.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The relationship agreement provides Barrick with certain Director Mr Hawkins, Mr Jennings and certain other members of ABGs senior appointment rights in line with a sliding scale, structured as follows: management hold interests under Barricks restricted stock unit plan.
These interests were acquired prior to joining ABG as part of previous Barrick Percentage Shareholding Barrick Director Appointment Rights employment within the Barrick Group and are not deemed to be 40% or more The higher of three Non-Executive materialinterests.
Directors and the maximum that may The Companies Act 2006 requires Directors to avoid situations where beappointed under the UK Corporate theyhave, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may Governance Code possibly conflict, with Company interests.
However, the Act does allow 25% up to 40% The higher of two Non-Executive Directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts Directors and one less than the of interest where a companys articles of association contain a provision maximum number of Non-Executive tothat effect.
ABGs articles of association contain such provision and a Directors that may be appointed under procedure for this.
In accordance with this procedure, the conflicts outlined the UK Corporate Governance Code above were declared and authorised by the Board.
15% up to 25% The higher of one Non-Executive The monitoring and, if appropriate, authorisation of any actual or potential Director and two less than the conflict of interest is an ongoing process.
Directors are required to notify maximum number of Nonthe Company of any material changes in positions or situations that have ExecutiveDirectors already been considered and any new situations.
In addition, Directors are required to declare interests in potential or actual transactions and are In addition to Director appointment rights and subject to certain required to abstain from voting on such transactions, subject to permitted exceptions, as part of the terms of the relationship agreement, Barrick exceptions.
If a question arises as to whether any interest of a Director hasundertaken that members of the Barrick Group will not carry on the prevents him or her from voting or being counted in a quorum in the exploration of gold or silver in Africa or acquire, whether through an asset context of a potential or actual transaction, the matter is referred to the purchase or the purchase of securities, a gold or silver mining business in Chairman, whose findings are final and conclusive.
In the context of Africa that competes with ABG without first giving ABG the option to questions relating to any such conflict of the Chairman, the question may exercise certain rights of first refusal for so long as Barrick holds 30% or ultimately be decided by a resolution of the other Directors.
more of the issued share capital or voting rights of ABG.
ABG has given areciprocal non-compete commitment to Barrick in this regard.
Specifically as regards nominee Directors appointed by Barrick, the relationship agreement provides that if any transaction or arrangement AGM arises directly between a member of the Barrick Group and a member ABGs 2013 AGM will be held on 18 April 2013 at 2.00pm UK time.
The ofthe ABG Group and does or could, in the opinion of a majority of business of the meeting will be conducted in accordance with Companies Directors excluding any Director s appointed by Barrick, give rise to Act 2006 requirements and standards promoted by the UK Corporate aconflict of interest between ABG and any Director appointed by Barrick, Governance Code.
The Chairman and the chairmen of the Audit, any such matter must be approved and authorised at a duly convened Compensation and Nomination committees will be available to answer Board meeting or in writing by a majority of Directors excluding any questions put to them by shareholders at the meeting.
The AGM Notice Director s appointed by Barrick prior to the Company taking further isincluded in the documentation that has been provided with this report action in relation to such matter.
and is also available on the Companys website.
In accordance with best practice, the notice has been sent to shareholders at least 20 business days The Board reviews conflicts of interest on a periodic basis and maintains prior to the date of the meeting.
arecord of all declared conflicts.
During the Offer Period applicable to the Company in the latter half of 2012, the Board specifically reviewed the Conflicts of interest rules applicable to conflicts of interest, taking advice where necessary from Mr Dushnisky, Mr Galbraith and Mr McCreary are nominee Directors external counsel, in the context of the discussions between China National appointed by Barrick.
These individuals hold a number of crossGold and Barrick and Barrick nominee Directors participation in directorships with members of the Barrick Group, which give rise to Boardmeetings.
situations in which these Directors could have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with those of ABG.
In addition, as Save for the matters set out above, no other conflicts of interest were a result of their employment within the Barrick Group, these individuals disclosed to the Board during the reporting period.
also hold interests under Barricks restricted stock unit plan and other employee incentive plans.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65 Corporate governance continued r Nomination committee composition: The majority of members of the Corporate governance compliance Nomination committee may not strictly be viewed as independent For the year under review, as a UK company with a premium listing on forUK corporate governance standards in light of Mr Pannells status theMain Market of the London Stock Exchange, ABG is required to make asActing Chairman.
Nevertheless, the Board believed Mr Pannells certain statements regarding the way it is governed, as required by the UK continued committee appointment to be in the best interests of the Corporate Governance Code.
Accordingly, this report explains how ABG Company given the importance of his role in the context of succession has applied and complied with the Main Principles of the UK Corporate planning.
Again, overall composition of the Nomination committee will Governance Code during 2012. be reviewed as part of wider Board and committee composition reviews Generally, ABG seeks to apply the provisions of the UK Corporate to be conducted in 2013.
However, during the reporting In addition to reviewing the specific matters listed above and as previously period the structure of the Board and its committees was impacted by the indicated, overall composition of the Board and its committees will be departure of Mr Cross and Mr Regent and, more fundamentally, by the reviewed in 2013 as part of governance reviews to ensure that the imposition of the Offer Period and related restrictions as a result of the appropriate balance of responsibilities and skill sets is maintained.
discussions between China National Gold and Barrick, something which Furthermore, the Board and its committees will review the requirements ultimately restricted the Company from recruiting additional independent of the new edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code which applies Non-Executive Directors.
In particular: to all reporting periods from October 2012 onwards as part of its activities r Balance of Board appointments: During the second half of the year, for 2013. lessthan half of the Board excluding the Chairman was comprised ABGs external auditor has reviewed those parts of this statement, which ofindependent Non-Executive Directors.
We are currently exploring itis required to review under the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom opportunities to appoint additional independent Non-Executive Listing Authority.
r Status of Chairman: For the first half of the year, the position of In addition to compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, as Chairman was held by Mr Regent, former President and Chief part of commitments given in connection with ABGs secondary listing ExecutiveOfficer of Barrick.
Though not determined to be independent onthe Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange, the Board has undertaken to on appointment for UK corporate governance purposes, Mr Regents comply with the Corporate Governance Guidelines issued by the appointment was deemed to be in the best interests of the Company Tanzanian Capital Markets and Securities Authority to the extent that given his industry expertise and his familiarity with the Companys these requirements are equivalent to applicable UK corporate governance assets.
Following his departure, Mr Pannell was appointed as Acting standards.
In the case of any conflict between the two, the requirements Chairman of the Company, satisfying initial independence ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code prevail.
requirements under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
r Appointment of Senior Independent Director: Mr Pannells assumption of the role of Acting Chairman required him to step down from the position of Senior Independent Director.
Recruitment for an appropriate replacement was impacted by the prolonged Offer Period.
We are in the process of reviewing opportunities to appoint a replacement to this role.
r Audit committee composition: Mr Pannell was appointed to the committee to replace Mr Cross in the first half of 2012, following which he assumed the position of Acting Chairman of the Board.
Though UK corporate governance standards discourage the appointment of the Chairman as a member of audit committees of FTSE 350 companies, the Board felt it appropriate to maintain Mr Pannells Audit committee appointment in order to safeguard adequate representation and participation in Audit committee matters throughout the latter half ofthe year.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our committees Audit committee Andre Falzon, Audit committee chair I am the chair of the committee and have over 25 years of financial andmanagement experience within the mining industry.
I am a CGA Canada and CPA, CA Canada.
Together, this provides me with the relevant financial experience required for my position under applicable governance standards.
Michael Kenyon and Derek Pannell comprise the other committee members.
James Cross stepped down from the committee following his resignation from the Board.
Under the terms of reference, we are required to meet at least four times a year.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the ABG Group Financial Controller, members of the Treasury function, the Head of Risk and Internal Audit and the external auditors also attend committee meetings on a regular basis.
We also hold individual meetings with ABGs external auditors and the Head of Risk and Internal Audit without management present to discuss matters within our remit of responsibilities.
Key responsibilities Activities in 2012 and plans for 2013 Our key responsibilities include oversight of financial reporting and We met five times during the year: members individual attendance is provided internal controls over financial reporting, overseeing the Groups on page 62.
The committees key activities focused on the following: relationship with its external auditors and ABGs internal audit function, r Reviewing our terms of reference, effectiveness and the skills, overseeing the external and internal audit processes generally and experience and qualification of committee members in the context of reviewing the effectiveness of the ABG Groups systems of internal committee composition reviews controland financial reporting risk management.
r Reviewing the external auditor terms of engagement, plans and scope of Further details regarding the committee and its terms of reference work, compensation and the findings arising from all external audit work are available for inspection on ABGs website.
r Reviewing ABGs periodic financial reporting r Reviewing key accounting policies and developments in the financial reporting and regulatory environment r Reviewing the internal audit plan, together with internal audit reports, findings and monitoring related action plans r Reviewing succession planning, compensation and remuneration for all direct reports to the CFO and the Head of Internal Audit r Reviewing enterprise risk registers, tax disputes and other litigation r Reviewing whistle blowing arrangements to support reporting requirements under ABGs Code of Conduct and Anti-Fraud and Anti-Corruption policies r Identifying and reviewing specific focus areas, including: Non-IFRS measurements, segment accounting and disclosure, impairment testing and deferred stripping accounting matters All of the above areas will be further progressed in 2013: these being the priority areas identified within the wider remit of the committees responsibilities.
In addition to this we will continue to review the requirements of the new editions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the revised FRC Guidance on Audit Committees, specifically in the context of enhanced public reporting requirements for Audit committees and matters relevant to the appointment and review of external auditors.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 67 Corporate governance continued EHS&S committee David Hodgson, EHS&S committee chair I act as chairman of the committee as a result of my years of experience within the operating environment of the African mining industry.
Derek Pannell, Ambassador Mwapachu and Kelvin Dushnisky comprise the other members of the committee.
Stephen Galbraith stepped down from the committee during the reporting period.
Under the terms of reference, we are required to meet at least twice a year.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and members of senior management within our security, environmental and community relations teams also attend committee meetings on a regular basis to discuss matters within our remit of responsibilities.
Key responsibilities Activities in 2012 and plans for 2013 Our key responsibilities focus on the oversight and review of ABG We met five times during the year: members individual attendance activities that are of core importance to ABGs social licence to operate isprovided on page 62.
The committees key activities focused on andresponsible mining practices.
These include ABGs strategy and thefollowing: policyon environmental, occupational health and safety, corporate social r Reviewing our terms of reference, effectiveness and the skills, responsibility CSR and security matters: reviewing the effectiveness of experience and qualification of committee members in the context Group environmental, health and safety and security EHS&S systems ofcommittee composition reviews and controls and generally overseeing managements monitoring and evaluation of emerging CSR issues to assess the potential impact on ABGs r Reviewing EHS&S and CSR strategy and priorities, performance, business and operations.
metrics, trends and incident reports r Reviewing key risks in ABGs operating environment as regards EHS&S Further details regarding the committee and its terms of reference and CSR are available for inspection on ABGs website.
r Reviewing ABG management systems and processes as regards EHS&S and CSR r Reviewing key regulatory and other developments relevant to the EHS&S and CSR operating environment r Identifying and reviewing specific focus areas, including: ABGs permitting management systems, environmental management system, security systems, procedures and controls, illegal mining strategies, government and public relations strategies and closure planning r Reviewing and monitoring the status of occupational, health and safety targets and systems r Further refining the framework for the committees review of areas offocus All of the above areas will be further progressed in 2013: these being thepriority areas identified within the wider remit of the committees responsibilities.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Nomination committee Transaction committee Derek Pannell, Nomination committee chair Michael Kenyon, Transaction committee chair I act as chairman of the committee.
Kelvin Dushnisky and Ambassador The committee was formed during the latter half of the year to oversee Mwapachu comprise the other committee members, Mr Dushnisky having matters relating to any potential transaction that could have resulted from replaced Mr Regent following his departure from the Board.
the discussions between China National Gold and Barrick.
I acted as Chairman of the committee, with David Hodgson and Derek Pannell comprising the other members of the committee.
Key responsibilities Activities in 2012 and plans for 2013 We play a leading role in reviewing the structure, size and composition of We met 13 times during the year: members individual attendance is the Board and in reviewing prospective new Board appointments.
Our remit of responsibilities and key activities focused primary responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on its on the following: composition and the composition of Board committees generally.
We also r Determining the terms of engagement for the professional advisers manage recommendations for the retirement and replacement of appointed to act for ABG in the context of any potential transaction Directors.
Under the terms of reference, we are required to meet at least once a year.
r Taking advice from our professional advisers as regards the duties and responsibilities of the Company and the Board in the context of it being Further details regarding the committee and its terms of reference a potential target for UK takeover rule purposes are available for inspection on ABGs website.
r Overseeing and supporting management in the conduct of due diligence exercises and other matters relating to Barricks discussions Activities in 2012 and plans for 2013 with China National Gold We met once during the year: members individual attendance is provided on r Assisting management in the evaluation and referral to the Board page 62.
The committees key activities were impacted in the latter half of the ofmatters affecting the ordinary course of business as a result of the year as a result of the uncertainty surrounding the requirements for Board imposition of the Offer Period succession and composition planning as a result of the prolonged Offer Period.
During the year we focused on the following key areas within our remit of r Providing regular and timely updates to the Board on the status of any potential transaction, developments and requirements imposed during responsibilities, all of which will be further progressed in 2013: the Offer Period r Reviewing the Boards structure, size and composition in the context The committee has now been dissolved, following termination of the Offer ofthe Companys position and strategy Period and will be replaced by the newly constituted Technical committee.
r Developing recommendations for Board appointments and the reappointment of Directors in accordance with the Board assessment and skills matrix r Identifying candidates for Board appointments r Reviewing the performance of the committee, its composition and terms of reference r Reviewing key regulatory and other developments relevant to the committees role and responsibilities r Developing formal succession planning procedures for Directors andsenior management Annual Report and Accounts 2012 69
