Business and strategic review Chief Financial Ofcers review continued Acquisitions and disposals Return on average capital employed 1 We invested 31.4m including 6.6m of expected contingent The return on average capital employed for 2012 including and deferred consideration in acquiring ten new businesses, discontinued operations was 15.5% 2011: 14.6%.
The table including two within Delta.
These acquisitions were closely below shows our performance over time: aligned to our strategic priorities, increasing our exposure to 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 attractive communities and geographies.
We also generated 10.1m in net cash proceeds from asset disposals, providing Operating profit additional resources to invest in our strategic priorities.
before exceptional items m 146.7 143.7 143.2 163.7 166.9 We also invested cash of 30.7m in the purchase of non-controlling interests including Canada Newswire Ltd and RISI, Inc. and Average capital made payments for contingent and deferred consideration employed m 815.9 910.6 971.1 1,124.1 1,074.5 for acquisitions made in prior years totalling 33.0m.
Return on average 1 capital employed Contingent and deferred ROACE % 18.0 15.8 14.7 14.6 15.5 consideration m Contingent Deferred Total At 1 January 2012 37.3 5.7 43.0 Change in estimate goodwill 1.0 1.0 Dividends Change in estimate 2.9 2.9 Our progressive dividend policy targeting two times cover exceptional items through economic and biennial cycles remains unchanged.
In line with this policy the Board is recommending a final Acquisitions during the year 4.7 1.9 6.6 dividend of 20.0p 2011: 20.0p.
This brings the total dividend Equity transactions in the year 1.3 1.3 for the year to 26.7p 2011: 26.3p, representing an increase of Consideration paid 31.1 1.9 33.0 1.5% in the full year dividend.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend on ordinary shares will be paid on 28 May Classied as held for sale 0.1 0.1 2013 to shareholders on the register on 26 April 2013.
Foreign exchange gain 0.7 0.1 0.8 At 31 December 2012 7.5 5.6 13.1 1 The 2012 acquisitions contributed adjusted operating profit of 4.1m since acquisition and achieved a pre-tax return on 1 investment of 16.2% on a pro forma basis.
The following table shows the performance of our acquisitions since 2010 relative to our target pre-tax cost of capital threshold of 10%: 1 Return on investment Consideration m 2010 2011 2012 2010 acquisitions 251.7 10.6% 12.2% 12.8% 2011 acquisitions 73.1 8.3% 11.5% 2012 2 acquisitions 30.5 16.2% 3 Total 355.3 12.8% 2 2012 Return on investment calculated on a full year pro forma basis.
3 2012 Return on three year initial cash consideration is 15.0%.
40 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Going concern review Conclusion After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable The 2012 results reect a noteworthy strategic step for UBM.
expectation that UBM has adequate resources to continue in The decision to sell Delta and further acquisitions in our Events operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, segment demonstrates our commitment to improve the quality they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing of our earnings and growth.
Throughout this strategic change, the financial statements.
we have maintained strong financial disciplines, requiring outstanding effort from the Group as a whole.
I look forward In reaching this conclusion, the directors have had due regard to further developments in 2013 to focus the Group as an to the following: events-led marketing services and communications business.
t After taking account of available cash resources and I thank my colleagues for their contribution to our success committed bank facilities, none of UBMs borrowings fall in 2012, and to the confidence with which we enter 2013. due within the next two years that require renancing from resources not already available.
Further information is provided in Note 5.3. t The cash generated from operations, committed facilities and UBMs ability to access debt capital markets, taken together, provide confidence that UBM will be able to meet its obligations as they fall due.
t Further information on the financial position of UBM, its cash Robert Gray ows, financial risk management policies and available debt Chief Financial Officer facilities are described in the Financial review on the preceding pages.
UBMs business activities, together with the factors likely to impact its future growth and operating performance are set out in the Business and strategic review.
41 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business and strategic review Chief Financial Ofcers review continued Explanation of UBMs business measures Financial measure How we define it Why we use it Underlying revenue and underlying Underlying measures are adjusted to We believe that underlying growth rates operating profit growth eliminate the effects of acquisitions, provide insight into the organic growth of discontinued products, foreign exchange the businesses, without distortion from and biennial events.
the effect of acquisitions, discontinued products, biennial events and foreign currency movements during the period.
Adjusted operating profit Operating profit excluding amortisation Commonly used by shareholders to of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, measure our performance, individually exceptional items and share of taxation and relative to other companies.
on joint ventures and associates.
Margin Margin relates to our adjusted operating margin.
It is adjusted operating profit expressed as a percentage of revenues.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, Assists investors in their assessment depreciation, amortisation, impairment and understanding of earnings and cash and exceptional items.
Adjusted profit before tax Before amortisation of intangible assets Assists investors in their assessment and adjusted EPS on acquisitions, exceptional items, share and understanding of our earnings and of taxation on profit from joint ventures is also a measure commonly used and associates, net nancing income by shareholders to measure our expense other.
EPS also excludes performance, individually and relative deferred tax on the amortisation of to other companies.
Diluted EPS includes the impact of share options.
Net debt Net debt is current and non-current Provides a measure of indebtedness borrowings and derivatives associated in excess of the current cash available with debt instruments, less cash and to pay down debt.
Net debt to EBITDA Net debt divided by EBITDA.
Provides a measure of financial leverage.
Net debt to LTM EBITDA EBITDA adjusted to include a full year of pro forma operating profit from acquisitions made during 2011.
Free cash ow Net cash provided by operating activities Helps assess our ability, over the after meeting obligations for interest, long term, to create value for our tax, dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders as it represents cash interests, capital expenditures and available to repay debt, pay dividends other investing activities.
42 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial measure How we define it Why we use it Adjusted operating cash ow Adjusted to exclude non-operating The Group believes adjusted operating movements in working-capital, such cash ow assists investors in their as expenditure against reorganisation assessment and understanding of and restructuring provisions.
Cash conversion Cash conversion is the ratio of adjusted cash generated from operations to adjusted operating profit.
Pre-tax return on investment Attributable adjusted operating profit Helps us assess the performance of our divided by the cost of acquisitions.
acquisitions relative to our target pre-tax Calculated on a pro forma basis, as if cost of capital threshold of 10%.
the acquired business were owned throughout the year.
Estimated total consideration Estimated total consideration includes Provides a measure of total consideration initial consideration net of cash for businesses acquired.
acquired, the latest estimate of expected contingent consideration and deferred consideration.
Return on average capital employed ROACE is operating profit before Provides a measure of the efficiency ROACE exceptional items divided by average of profitability of our capital investment.
Average capital employed is the average of opening and closing total assets less current liabilities for each period.
Effective tax rate The effective tax rate on adjusted profit Provides a more comparable basis before tax reects the tax rate excluding to analyse our tax rate.
movements on deferred tax balances on the amortisation of intangible assets.
43 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Board of directors A strong dedicated Board 12 3 67 Board overview Name Position Committee membership 1 Dame Helen Alexander Chairman Nomination Chair Remuneration 2 David Levin CEO 3 Robert Gray CFO 4 Alan Gillespie Senior Independent Director Audit Nomination 5 Pradeep Kar Non-executive director Nomination Remuneration 6 Greg Lock Non-executive director Audit Nomination Remuneration Chair 7 Terry Neill Non-executive director Audit Nomination 8 Jonathan Newcomb Non-executive director Audit Chair Nomination 9 Karen Thomson Non-executive director Nomination Remuneration 44 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45 89 Experience Appointed Please see http: www.
aspx for full Board biographies May 2012 Extensive experience in media, leading an international business, with wide-ranging board experience across a number of sectors.
April 2005 Extensive operational, strategic and leadership experience in the information, technology and media sectors.
September 2009 Over 30 years experience in finance and banking in the US, Latin America and Europe, particularly in M&A, capital raising and transforming corporate financial functions.
April 2008 Extensive global experience in both the public and private sectors, in particular in investment banking and financial services.
August 2006 Successful entrepreneur with a deep understanding of technology and the Asian and Emerging Markets.
February 2010 Over 40 years experience in the technology, software and computer services industry around the world.
September 2009 Over 30 years experience of working on large-scale design and delivery projects and managing change in a global business.
September 2009 Wide-ranging experience in the publishing and data industries in the US and internationally.
August 2006 A wealth of experience of the online world, in communication and developing an international business.
45 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Corporate governance statement A culture of good governance UK Corporate Governance Code UBMs shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, making us subject to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority FSA and the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
In 2012 we were required to measure compliance against the Code as published in 2010.
In this review we explain how the Board applies the principles of the Code in a way that contributes to the effectiveness of its operation.
We complied with all provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code during 2012, except after Alan Gillespie stepped down from the Remuneration Committee in August when membership of that committee comprised two independent non-executive directors and UBMs Chairman, Dame Helen Alexander Code provision D. 2.
Karen Thomson was appointed as an additional member of the Remuneration Dear shareholders, Committee in February 2013, thus restoring full compliance.
Good governance is not merely about having the right policies and procedures in place, but is integral to the culture of the Board structure organisation.
The Board takes seriously its role in promoting The Board has overall responsibility to our shareholders for and supporting this culture, which is an essential element in the management of the Group.
The primary function of the generating value for our shareholders, employees and other Board is to set and oversee the effective implementation of the stakeholders on a sustainable basis.
In practice this means that the Board takes the lead in setting There are nine Board members, comprising the Chairman the tone for the way in which UBM conducts its business, independent on appointment, two executive and six adopting and endorsing good practice which ows through into non-executive directors.
The way in which we operate, the openness The tenure of our non-executive directors ranges from eight with which we debate issues and the range of views expressed months to over 11 years, and they contribute a wide range of are all important in determining that tone.
knowledge, skills and experience as illustrated in their individual This section of the Annual Report describes how we implement biographies on pages 44 and 45. these principles and comply with formal governance codes.
Alan Gillespie is the senior independent non-executive director.
As the strategy of the Group evolves, we will continue to review We consider all our non-executive directors to be independent.
our approach to governance and to develop and implement Our assessment of the independence of our non-executive practices as appropriate to support the changing nature of directors pays particular attention to the personal qualities our business.
demonstrated by each director, particularly their character and judgment and the nature and effectiveness of their contribution to debate at Board and Committee meetings.
We also take account of the factors specically identied in the Code as potentially relevant in determining independence.
Jonathan Newcomb has served on the Board as a Dame Helen Alexander non-executive director since September 2001.
He has Chairman considerable experience and detailed knowledge of the sectors within which UBM operates, and continues to contribute objective analysis and challenge to Board discussions which we value highly.
We also consider that an appropriate balance is provided by the presence on the Board of five other independent non-executive directors.
Non-executive directors appointments are reviewed every three years, and all directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
46 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Ensuring the clarity of the various roles and responsibilities of Board A process is also in place to address any possible conicts of members is an important supporting element for the effective interest of directors.
Any relevant conicts and potential conicts that operation of the Board.
The key relationship is that between the arise must be disclosed for consideration at the next Board meeting Chairman and Chief Executive.
In accordance with the Code, a clear and, if appropriate, approval by relevant Board members.
written division of their respective roles is in place and has been No conicts of interest were disclosed during 2012. approved by the Board.
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings in 2012 Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Director 10 meetings 4 meetings 5 meetings 2 meetings Dame Helen Alexander 7 7 3 3 3 3 1 1 John Botts 4 4 1 1 1 1 1 1 David Levin 9 10 4 5 Robert Gray 10 10 4 4 Alan Gillespie 9 10 2 2 3 3 2 2 Pradeep Kar 9 10 5 5 Greg Lock 10 10 4 4 5 5 Terry Neill 10 10 4 4 2 2 Jonathan Newcomb 9 10 4 4 2 2 Karen Thomson 10 10 4 4 2 2 One Board meeting was convened in order to establish UK residence and a number of directors were unable to attend owing to absence overseas.
Chairman Chief Executive Responsible for the effective running of the Board.
She spends an Responsible for running the Groups business, within the authority average of two days per week carrying out her responsibilities, limits delegated to him by the Board.
but takes no part in the day-to-day running of the business.
Key responsibilities: Key responsibilities: Leading the Board effectively Proposing and developing the Groups strategy Board and corporate governance Annual budget Providing a sounding board for the CEO on key issues Identifying and executing acquisitions and disposals Board performance and evaluation Maintaining dialogue with the Chairman on key issues Identifying development needs for the Board and directors Developing and making recommendations on remuneration strategy Shareholder communication Leading the executive team in the day-to-day management of the business Chairing the Nomination Committee Leading the communication programme with shareholders 47 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
