Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 47 Corporate governance Corporate governance Chairmans introduction Douglas Caster CBE, Chairman Ultra is committed to fostering a strong culture Further detail about what the Board is doing on of good governance.
High standards of integrity these fronts is on the following pages.
and ethical behaviour are expected from In terms of Board changes, Andy Hamment everyone in the Group.
Ultras distinctive retired as Marketing Director on 30 March 2012 corporate culture promotes high standards of and was replaced by Mark Anderson.
Each operating business, Broadhurst replaced Ian Griffiths as Non-Executive overseen by a divisional management structure, is Director on 2 July 2012.
As previously announced responsible for its own success and is accountable in the RNS on 24 January 2013, Paul Dean, the for its actions.
Group Finance Director will stand down from the In support of the commitment to good governance, Board on 31 March 2013 and will be succeeded by during the past financial year the Board has: Mary Waldner who joins Ultra on 1 July 2013.
In welcomed Martin Broadhurst to the Board as the interim, Mark Nelson, the Finance Director for an Independent Non-Executive Director.
He Ultras Sonar & Undersea Systems Division, will brings to us a wealth of experience in the fulfill the function of Group Finance Director aerospace and defence sectors: reporting to Rakesh Sharma.
The Directors join me in thanking Andy, Ian and Paul for their valuable enhanced the risk management processes to service to Ultra.
reinforce bottom up and top down review of risks: Douglas Caster CBE, Chairman held a number of unscheduled Board meetings 1 March 2013 to review major new bids and investments: considered the impact of DEFRAs draft regulations on carbon footprint reporting: engaged with shareholders on changes to Executive Directors remuneration: discussed board diversity both in terms of gender and relevant experience to support the Groups international operations: reviewed and updated the terms of reference of the Boards Committees: and continued to develop our  Board evaluation, building on areas where the Board can add further value to our business.
Introduction 48 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Corporate governance report Compliance statement Board matters The principal governance rules applying to the Company are At every Board meeting standing agenda items include: contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, Chief Executives Report issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Board considers covers the Groups operational performance, particular that the Company complied with the main principles of the performance issues in each Division, the overall outlook Code during the year under review.
for the Group and health and safety performance Where appropriate, the Board has adopted aspects of the Finance Directors Report revised Code.
The Board will report fully under the revised Code financial forecasts for the half and full year, review of in its 2013 Annual Report.
cash performance to date and future forecasts, review of banking covenants, review of analysts views of the The Board notes the requirement of the Code to explain the Group, major shareholdings and major share buyers basis on which the Group generates or preserves value over the and sellers longer term the business model and the strategy for delivering Major projects report the objectives of the Group.
The Groups strategy and the Marketing Directors report business model are specifically addressed on pages 8 to 17 of this Annual Report.
Further explanations of how the main Human Resources report principles of the Code have been applied to the business are set Review of current acquisition activity and approval of out below, in the Directors remuneration report and the Audit any offers for proposed acquisitions Committee report.
Business presentation by a Managing Director Role of the Board Other important topics which are covered on a routine The role of the Board is to provide effective leadership and basis during the year are: direction in delivering the key corporate objective of reliable and consistent growth in shareholder value.
The Executive Approval of annual and interim financial statements Directors set the Group strategy which is subject to challenge and accompanying regulatory announcements before final agreement by the full Board.
The Board also Review and approval of the annual budget ensures that adequate controls are in place, including Review and approval of major capital investment projects calibrating risk appetite and maintaining oversight of Ultras and bids risk management processes.
The Board receives regular A special full day Board meeting is held to review the compliance reports.
The Board encourages the Groups five-year strategic plan, with presentations given by the businesses to behave ethically and properly at all times and Executive Team and discussions held on significant engenders a culture of fairness to customers, suppliers and matters identified in the proposed plan employees.
It is the function of the Groups management, Six-monthly review of Compliance Reports prepared by through the Chief Executive Rakesh Sharma and his Executive Divisional Managing Directors and Presidents Team, to run the operations of the Group.
The members of Annual reviews of health & safety and environmental the Executive Team are listed on page 46. reports summarising the position across all Group The Board is responsible for major investment decisions such businesses as acquisitions of companies and the allocation of the Groups Approval of any changes to the rules of operation of the R&D expenditure to major new projects.
To this end, in Groups employee share plans addition to the ten scheduled Board meetings, the Board held Effectiveness of internal controls five unscheduled Board meetings in the year.
The Board Review of the risk register conducts regular reviews of the major projects being Post acquisition reviews undertaken by the operating businesses.
Board evaluation A summary of some of the Boards key responsibilities and Corporate governance updates activities is set out opposite and the full range of Board responsibilities are detailed in the document entitled Matters to be reserved to the Board which is available from the Other significant matters addressed by the Board in 2012 included: Investors section of the Group website.
Approval of a new revolving credit facility Consideration of the Groups tax position Structure, policies and procedures to address internal cyber-security and potential new cyber-security offerings Appointment of Moelis & Company as joint financial adviser with J. P. Morgan Cazenove Corporate Social Responsibility, in particular Ultras approach to the proposed mandatory carbon reporting legislation Corporate pension strategy Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 49 Corporate governance continued Board meetings During Board meetings at Ultras operating units, presentations The key source of information for the Board remains the detailing recent performance, key opportunities and future comprehensive set of papers that are prepared and circulated forecasts are given by the senior managers of the host to the Directors in advance of each Board meeting.
Product demonstrations and site tours also take routine and exceptional agenda items are supported by place.
This gives all of the Directors a good practical insight advance briefing papers to enable an informed debate to into operating businesses and is particularly useful for the take place at Board meetings.
The Non-Executive Directors will also conduct separate visits to businesses.
The Directors meet In addition to these briefing documents it is now normal frequently with individual Executive Team members who make practice for acquisition opportunities to be presented to the presentations to the Board on any significant investment Board by the appropriate Divisional Managing Director or proposals, including proposed acquisitions and to give President.
This enables a full discussion of the merits and risks progress reports on any particular strategic initiatives which of any acquisition proposal to take place at an early stage.
the Board may have requested.
The Executive Team as a whole Other significant matters that require formal Board approval meets the Board annually to present the proposed Strategic which are routinely presented by the appropriate business Plan for the next five years.
This is then debated with the include major bids, updates on key strategic initiatives and major Directors, changes agreed and a final plan is approved.
capital and private venture development expenditure proposals.
Meeting attendance 2012 The scheduled Board meetings are rotated around the sites of The Company Secretary & General Counsel or the Assistant the operating businesses.
During 2012, the Board visited six Company Secretary attended all Board meetings and operating businesses in the UK.
In addition, the Board held Committee meetings.
The table below shows attendance by one meeting at a North American business, following a tour Directors at the Board and Committee meetings.
To the by the Non-Executive Directors of some of the North extent Directors were unable to attend meetings, because American operations and one meeting in Abu Dhabi, during a unscheduled meetings were called at short notice or they review of the Companys operations in Oman and the United were unable to attend due to prior commitments, they Arab Emirates.
received and read papers for consideration at the meeting, relayed their comments in advance and, where necessary, followed up with the Chairman on the decisions made.
Main Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Actual inclusive of unscheduled Board Maximum Maximum Maximum Maximum meetings possible Actual possible Actual possible Actual possible Chairman 1 Douglas Caster 14 15 4 4 5 5 2 2 Chief Executive Rakesh Sharma 15 15 4 4 5 5 2 2 Executive Directors 2 Mark Anderson 11 11 2 2 - - - - Paul Dean 15 15 4 4 - - - - 3 Andy Hamment 4 4 2 2 - - - - Non-Executive Directors 5 Chris Bailey 14 15 4 4 5 5 2 2 4 Martin Broadhurst 8 8 2 2 3 3 1 1 6 Ian Griffiths 5 7 2 2 2 2 0 1 Sir Robert Walmsley 15 15 4 4 5 5 2 2 1 Douglas Caster was unable to attend the unscheduled Board meeting in March due to short notice and a prior commitment.
2 Mark Anderson was appointed on 1 April 2012.
3 Andy Hamment retired on 30 March 2012.
4 Martin Broadhurst was appointed on 2 July 2012.
5 Chris Bailey was unable to attend the Board meeting in October due to a long standing private commitment.
6 Ian Griffiths retired on 2 July 2012.
He was unable to attend the Board and Nominations Committee meetings held in the US in May or the unscheduled Board meeting in June due to short notice and a prior commitment.
Introduction 50 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Board composition Board tenure and independence Experience Current Board of Directors Tenure on other Chairman: 1 years Independent plc Boards Executive Directors: 3 Chairman Non-Executive Directors: 3 Douglas Caster 19 No No Non-Executive Chairman: Directors Chris Bailey 8 Yes Yes Executive Directors: Martin Broadhurst 1 Yes No Non-Executive Directors.
Sir Robert Walmsley 4 Yes Yes Executive Directors In 2012, the following changes to the Board took place: Rakesh Sharma 2 No No After serving 9 years on the Board, Ian Griffiths was replaced Paul Dean 3 No Yes by Martin Broadhurst as Non-Executive Director: and Mark Anderson 1 No No Andy Hamment Marketing Director retired and was replaced by Mark Anderson.
Throughout 2012, the Board structure was in line with the Code.
Board skills and experience The Board has a balance of skills, understanding, perspectives and experience relevant to the Groups activities.
The Board 6 7 collectively possesses a deep understanding of the Groups core defence, security, transport and energy markets.
This is 6 complemented by its members experience and expertise in other industries and other disciplines including procurement, 7 accountancy, financial management and growing international businesses.
There is knowledge of best practice 5 in other companies and other industries, and the Board seeks to adopt new methodologies when these are seen to be in 4 the best interests of the Group.
This range of skills and experience informs the Boards decision-making and enables 6 it to provide effective leadership.
6 The particular skills and experience that each Director brings to the Board are described in their biographical details on 5 3 pages 44 and 45 and are summarised opposite.
6 The Company has a policy whereby Executive Directors, but not the Chief Executive, may accept one appointment as a Non-Executive Director in another listed company.
Executive Directors are permitted to retain any fees from Number of Directors Defence and Security such external appointments.
with skills and Transport experience described Board roles Energy Chairman Engineering The role of the Chairman, Douglas Caster, is to manage the Production Board, while the role of the Chief Executive is to run the operations of the Group.
The Chairman aims to facilitate free Project management and open debate on the topics which appear on the Board Finance agenda and to promote a culture where the Non-Executive Directors can provide the appropriate level of challenge and Procurement questioning of the reports and plans put forward by the Chief Marketing Executive and his fellow Executive Directors.
All Directors are able to add items to Board agendas.
Management Terms of reference set out the Chairmans activities.
These Cross border trade include a summary of his board and corporate duties, an outline of his visits to company businesses, his relations with shareholders and the media, and those key areas of relations with external bodies that he seeks to promote.
Throughout Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 51 Corporate governance continued Board roles continued Insurance Chairman continued The Group maintains an appropriate level of Directors and the year, the Chairman held a series of private meetings to Officers Liability insurance cover in respect of legal action discuss aspects of the business at which only the Non-Executive against its Directors.
Board appointments the process Chief Executive In appointing Martin Broadhurst and Mary Waldner, the The role of the Chief Executive, Rakesh Sharma, is to manage Board, through the Nominations Committee, has been careful and run the Groups businesses.
He accomplishes this task to identify the skills, knowledge and experience needed for through an Executive Team comprising the Group Finance, each role and to complement the existing skills mix provided Marketing and Human Resources Directors, the Divisional by other Board members.
The process followed by the Managing Directors and Presidents, the Company Secretary Nominations Committee in appointing Directors is described & General Counsel and the Chief Executive as Chairman.
To ensure selection from the widest possible Management of individual businesses is devolved to the talent pool, it is the Companys normal practice to engage the Divisional Managing Directors and Presidents, assisted by services of independent, external search consultants in dedicated Divisional Finance Directors and Divisional Strategy recruiting new Directors.
This was the case with the Directors.
The Chief Executive also utilises the independent appointments of Martin Broadhurst and Mary Waldner.
Ethics Overview Committee to provide independent oversight Directors induction and training of specific ethical issues.
See page 39 for a description of the All new appointments to the Board receive a comprehensive role of this Committee.
induction to the Group covering the corporate structure, the Senior Independent Director products and services of the Groups businesses, the key Chris Bailey is the Senior Independent Director.
In common markets in which the businesses operate and the key risks with the other Non-Executive Directors he acts as a sounding which the Group faces, together with the actions and plans board for the Chairman.
While Ultra enjoys an open board which are in place to mitigate against these.
On appointment, culture, Chris Bailey provides an independent voice and is each Director receives a full induction pack explaining Ultras available as a point of contact for colleagues on the Board governance framework, policies and procedures and a should they have concerns that they feel unable to raise with briefing from the Company Secretary & General Counsel on the Chairman.
He performs a similar function for shareholders, the legal, governance and control framework.
employees or any other external stakeholders of the Group.
He is able to receive whistleblowing reports submitted by Programmes of visits to Group businesses are arranged.
It is employees anonymously via an externally hosted Employee important for these to encompass as many businesses as Hotline.
He ensures that such reports are fully investigated, possible, since no two Ultra businesses are alike.
New Directors that corrective action is taken where necessary and no are encouraged to meet business and divisional management retribution is taken against the whistleblower.
teams to gain a feel for the Groups style and culture.
The Company Secretary & General Counsel annually presents Non-Executive Directors to the Board on corporate governance.
The Board is briefed Chris Bailey, Sir Robert Walmsley and Martin Broadhurst are on significant changes in the law or governance codes the Groups independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board affecting their duties as Directors.
Experts present to the considers them to be independent.
In assessing independence, Board on specialist areas, such as pensions and tax.
Specific the Board considers that they are independent of training is arranged for Directors as and when appropriate.
management and free from business and other relationships The Directors are able to call on independent professional which could interfere with the exercise of independent advice at anytime should this be necessary in order for them judgment now and in the future.
The Board believes that any to carry out their duties.
shareholdings of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors serve to align their interests with those of all shareholders.
Board evaluation The Non-Executive Directors have wide experience of working The Chairman commissions  annual Board in a variety of different government and industry roles with evaluations.
Board evaluations run on a two year cycle.
One year, exposure to international business.
the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is evaluated.
The next year, individual Directors performance is evaluated.
The key role of the Non-Executive Directors, along with the Chairman, is to provide an appropriate level of challenge and In 2012, Mr Jack Telfer facilitated a review of the Board and constructive criticism to the plans of the Executive Directors.
Mr Telfer has considerable experience of The Non-Executive Directors have met without the Chairman working at board level.
He was the Human Resources Director or Executive Directors being present on several occasions of the Company up until June 2004 when he left the during the year to discuss aspects relating to the Board and Company to set up his own consultancy and so was able to the Company and appropriate feedback is given.
facilitate the evaluation from a position of having a good On behalf of the Company, the Non-Executive Directors are understanding of the Company and its culture.
He provides a active in developing relationships at a senior level with the valuable insight into the Companys challenges and needs and Companys key suppliers, customers and business partners.
is able to assess the Board and its Committees in the context of the Companys development.
Introduction 52 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Board evaluation continued Diversity The Board completed a detailed questionnaire covering: Ultra continues to follow its overriding policy of appointing the Board structure and effectiveness, functionality, Board best person for a particular role, regardless of sex, race, meetings, administration, interaction with senior nationality, disability, sexual orientation, age, marital status, management, corporate governance, Committee structure religion or beliefs.
The Board contends that a board composed and effectiveness and progress on Board effectiveness since of the right balance of skills, experience, and diversity of views is the last evaluation in 2010.
Mr Telfer reported back on his best placed to support a company in its strategic objectives.
The findings to the Chairman and made a presentation at a Board Board has considered in detail the requirements of the Code meeting, at which observations were discussed.
In selecting the best person for a role, the Board gives active consideration to the benefits of The review concluded that the Board as a whole was effective diversity, including gender diversity.
However, setting diversity and the procedures and effectiveness of the Board and its target aspirations, especially by specific dates, can distort the Committees had improved since the 2010 evaluation.
The selection process and conflict with its preferred, diversity-aware Directors concluded that the Board was proactive, spent best person for the role approach.
sufficient time on key issues and that appropriate debate and challenge was welcomed during Board discussions.
The Board Engineering is a sector of relatively low female participation, identified the following areas of focus going forward and especially in senior management positions.
This poses a actions to address these: challenge for the Group in terms of achieving gender diversity with the appropriate knowledge and understanding Focus Actions of the risks associated with the Groups technologies and Given the Companys The Board agreed that offerings.
Nevertheless, the Company has been successful in operations in the US, when appointing a new recruiting its first female Director from the finance sector, and it was concluded that Non-Executive Director will continue in its diversity aware best person for the role a North American this requirement would representative on the be taken into account approach to recruiting.
Board would contribute to the Boards insight Annual re-election of Directors and experience of the All the Directors, with the exception of Paul Dean who stands US market down from the Board on 31 March 2013, will stand for The level of Board In addition to presenting re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2013. interaction with the the Strategic Plan annually, Divisional Managing the Divisional Managing Directors Presidents Directors Presidents would Conflicts of interest would be increased meet with the Board part Each Director has a responsibility to bring situational or way through the year to transactional conflicts of interest to the attention of the give an update on actions arising from the Strategic Board as soon as they arise.
No conflicts were identified Plan.
Directors would aim to meet with the Divisional Internal controls Managing Directors Presidents three times a year.
The Directors carry out an annual review of the effectiveness Risk Management It was agreed that: of the Groups internal control systems.
This covers the ways in reporting would continue The strategic risks as set which identified strategic, operational and financial risks are to be developed out on pages 41 to 43 managed.
Particular attention is paid to the security of the would be reviewed by Groups IT systems and more latterly on improving cyber security.
the Board twice annually Ultras internal controls are designed, and have evolved over An enhanced unified time, to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to reporting format for which it is exposed.
However, no controls can provide major project risks absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
would be implemented The key features of the internal control system that operated An issue tracking tool during the year are described below.
would be used to record control issues identified Control environment by internal audit along Ultras control systems are well defined and are considered by with agreed actions and the Directors to be appropriate to the Groups size and timeframes for their structure.
The control environment is managed by the Chief remediation Executive and the Executive Team.
Individual businesses report to a specific Divisional Managing Director or President, who is responsible for ensuring that the Managing Director or President of each operating business has implemented the controls as defined in the Group Operating Manual.
Individual operating businesses are required to maintain their own detailed operating procedures which are consistent with the Group Operating Manual.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 53 Corporate governance continued Control environment continued projects.
The financial impact of identified risks are evaluated The Board maintains an internal audit process to review together with the probability of the risks occurring.
financial and information systems control procedures Mitigating actions are subsequently agreed and implemented.
In 2012, this was performed by Ernst The Managing Directors and Presidents, Finance Directors and & Young LLP.
All significant business units are audited at least Vice Presidents of Finance of each business are required to once every 2 years, while other businesses are audited on a give a formal written representation to the Board each year 3 year cycle.
In addition, all newly acquired free-standing confirming that they accept responsibility for maintaining businesses are audited within a year of their acquisition date.
effective internal controls and that they have disclosed full The lead partner from Ernst & Young reports directly to the details of any fraud or suspected fraud within their business.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and presents the findings The Board accepts overall responsibility for reviewing the of his team twice annually to the Audit Committee.
Progress operation and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls at reports on follow-up remedial actions are reported regularly least annually and has performed a specific assessment for the to the Committee.
Ernst & Young confirm whether purposes of this Annual Report.
With the assistance of the appropriate action has been taken to address the risks when Audit Committee all significant aspects of internal control for they next visit the business concerned.
2012 have been reviewed and internal procedures amended In 2012, a tender of the internal audit process was performed.
The Audit Committee concluded that the current internal Financial reporting systems auditors, Ernst & Young, should be replaced by The Group has a well-established process for collecting  LLP effective from 1 January 2013. financial information from operating businesses and for Half-yearly Divisional control reviews are held between each consolidating this at divisional and Group level.
Divisional Finance Director and the Group Finance Director at Financial results for operating businesses, each division and which internal control processes and issues for each business in the whole Group, are provided to the Board monthly and the Division are discussed.
The results from these reviews are presented at every scheduled Board meeting.
Scheduled included in the Internal Controls Improvement Status Report Board meetings are held monthly with the exceptions of June which is presented to the Audit Committee twice a year.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director Ultra has a robust anti-bribery and corruption policy in place.
In explain the significance of any major impacts on the financial accordance with this policy, all Directors and employees are performance and draw the Boards attention to any required to sign Ultras code of conduct on anti-bribery and significant trends or deviations from budget revealed by commit to act in accordance with the code.
Within one week of forecasts of future performance.
joining Ultra, Directors and employees undertake anti-bribery Shareholder communication training.
Further anti-bribery training is given to targeted The Group is committed to ensuring effective communication groups throughout the year.
The Group intranet, which is with its shareholders and encourages an open dialogue with accessible by all employees, contains a statement from the shareholders to promote a mutual understanding of Chief Executive regarding compliance with Ultras anti-bribery objectives and expectations.
Throughout the year, Ultra and corruption policy.
Ultra businesses submit monthly initiates tailored events and responds to meeting requests business performance reports confirming compliance with the with current and prospective investors and financial analysts.
code and reporting any breaches.
Specifically, meetings are held with institutional investors and Risk management financial analysts after the release of the interim and full year Risk assessment and management is not treated as a separate financial results at which detailed briefings are given.
It is assessed and managed as an integral briefings can also be found on the investors section of the part of all of Ultras management and control processes.
Groups website together with copies of all regulatory In their monthly business performance reports, individual announcements, press releases and copies of the published operating businesses identify key opportunities and risks, full year and interim accounts and reports.
their possible financial impacts and any mitigating actions.
The Chief Executive, Chairman, Group Finance Director and These are reviewed by and discussed with the Divisional Marketing Director regularly meet institutional shareholders Managing Directors and Presidents at monthly review or potential shareholders either individually or as part of meetings and appropriate actions are agreed.
Managing Directors and Presidents present monthly reports to the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
These The Board is regularly updated by the Companys stock broker include an assessment of the risks inherent in each businesss on analysts and major shareholders views on the Company.
financial forecasts and any other key risks.
Based on these The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are always reports, the Executive Team compiles a register of the major available to meet with shareholders should they have any risks facing the Group which are reported to and monitored concerns or questions that they wish to raise.
Please refer to pages 40 to 43 for details of Each year, Ultra organises focused events and or site visits to these major risks and the approach taken to mitigate these.
provide greater insight into the strengths and potential of its In addition, all businesses maintain risk registers for major extensive portfolio of specialist capabilities.
Introduction 54 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Shareholder communication continued Shareholder analysis by category of shareholder as at introductory briefings on the Group as a whole to 31 December 2012 presentations on specific areas of capability.
Visits and Fund Holding % presentations in the year included an in depth review of Unit trusts 34,361,956 49.51 Ultras capability in Anti-Submarine Warfare and their Pension funds 10,352,331 14.92 applicability to growing tensions in the Asia-Pacific region.
Ultra invites investors and members of the financial Insurance companies 5,665,223 8.16 community to exhibitions, such as the Farnborough Airshow.
Other managed funds 5,484,354 7.90 Members of the Executive Team also take part in investor Sovereign wealth 3,752,810 5.41 briefings organised by third parties.
Private Investor 2,993,535 4.31 All shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General Custodians 1,261,540 1.82 Meeting where they have the opportunity to meet with Investment trust 839,000 1.21 Directors and to ask questions.
Voting at the Annual General Trading position 394,748 0.57 Meeting is conducted by way of a show of hands.
Proxy votes lodged for each Annual General Meeting are announced at Exchange-traded fund 352,497 0.51 the meeting and published on Ultras website.
Electronic Charity 294,939 0.42 communication with shareholders is preferred wherever Employee share scheme possible since this is both more efficient and environmentally trustees 235,247 0.34 friendly.
However shareholders may opt to receive hard copy Unclassified 229,895 0.33 communication if they wish.
Mutual fund 135,241 0.19 Shareholder analysis University 102,694 0.15 The majority of Ultras shares are held by institutional Other 2,947,649 4.25 shareholders.
Some of the members of the buyout team which originally formed Ultra still have significant holdings in Total issued share capital 69,403,659 100.0 the Company, as does the Chairman, Chief Executive and other members of Ultras Executive Team.
Many of whom have retained shares awarded via share option or long term incentive schemes.
Shareholder analysis by size of holding as at 31 December 2012 Total number Total number % Size of shareholding of holdings % of holders of shares issued capital 1-50 113 6.74 2,466 0.01 51-100 87 5.19 7,253 0.01 101-250 349 20.84 65,157 0.09 251-500 272 16.24 100,454 0.14 501-1,000 262 15.64 187,104 0.27 1,001-5,000 283 16.90 596,153 0.86 5,001-10,000 50 2.98 357,913 0.52 10,001-25,000 71 4.24 1,129,715 1.63 25,001-50,000 49 2.93 1,770,862 2.55 Over 50,000 139 8.30 65,186,582 93.92 Totals 1,675 100.00 69,403,659 100.00 Financial calendar 26 March 2013 Annual Report and Accounts published 10 April 2013 Ex-dividend date 12 April 2013 Record date 26 April 2013 Annual General Meeting 3 May 2013 Final dividend payment date 5 August 2013 Interim results announced 27 September 2013 Interim dividend payment date Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 55 Corporate governance continued Board Committees The key functions of the Committee are: Ultra has established three Committees of the Board, the Scrutiny of the Groups annual and interim financial Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, to which statements and accounts certain key responsibilities have been delegated.
The Receipt of reports from the Groups external auditor detailed terms of reference of each Committee are available Review of internal audit reports from Ernst & Young who from the Investors section of the Group website.
The carried out a programme of internal audit visits to the responsibilities of each Committee are in line with the operating businesses recommendations of the Code.
The membership of each Receipt and review of plans to improve any internal Committee comprises the three independent Non-Executive controls which are identified in the internal audit reports Directors Chris Bailey, Sir Robert Walmsley and Martin To carry out regulatory and statutory compliance checks on Broadhurst.
Chris Bailey, Senior Independent Director, is the Groups financial affairs Chairman of each Committee.
Summaries of the key activities of each Committee are given below.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that Audit Committee action or improvement is needed and make recommendations Composition on the steps to be taken.
Matters considered by the The membership of the Audit Committee has been outlined Committee during 2012 were: above.
Chris Bailey, Chairman of the Committee, has recent and relevant experience in a senior financial role in another public Topic What was considered limited company, including having been Group Finance Director Financial results Full and half year financial of Aggregate Industries plc until 2004.
He is a fellow of the statements and related Institute of Chartered Accountants of England & Wales and is results announcements also a member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Reports and reviews from the Groups external In addition to the Committee members, the Group Chairman, auditor Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are invited to Matters that required the exercise of significant attend Audit Committee meetings.
The Company Secretary management judgement & General Counsel acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Internal controls Review of Ultras system Marketing Director normally attends Audit Committee of internal controls and meetings as an observer.
Deloitte LLP are the Groups external their effectiveness auditor.
The Deloitte Audit Partner attends all Audit Re-tender of internal audit provisions Committee meetings, whilst the lead partner from Ernst & Young attended those meetings at which summary Internal Fraud Review of representation on fraud statement Audit Reports were reviewed by the Committee.
Audit plans Setting and review of The Committees terms of reference includes all matters internal and external audit plans for the year indicated by the Code and are reviewed and approved by the Cyber and IT security An assessment of cyber and Board annually.
The terms of reference are available on the IT security within the Group Companys website www.
Whistleblowing Review reports of calls to the Groups external The Committee Chairman met with Ernst & Young and Deloitte Employee Hotline and how in the absence of Executive Directors and other Committee they have been investigated members had the opportunity to do so.
During 2012, the and dealt with Committee met with Deloitte, without Executive Directors External auditor Review and approval of external auditors present, at which Deloitte reported on their views of the engagement policy Groups performance and on the performance of the Executive Review and approval of Directors in running the Group.
audit and non-audit fees for the external auditor Role Governance Review of new guidance The Board takes overall responsibility for the review of the from the Financial effectiveness of the internal controls.
The Audit Committee Reporting Council and assists the Board in this by monitoring the internal control changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code procedures.
It does this through: Review of changes to IFRS Its receipt and review of internal audit reports and financial reporting Reports from the Group Finance Director of his actions to Review of the Committees ensure that the Groups operating businesses address any terms of reference control weaknesses Benchmarking Ultras Annual Report & Accounts Its review of the accounts and supporting reports presented against peer group and by the Groups external auditor approval of the 2011 Corporate Governance Other detailed reviews and investigations that it may require Report 7.
Introduction 56 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Audit Committee continued During 2012 the Committee met twice.
The first meeting was An external Employee Hotline is used to provide a process for to agree the process for appointing a new Non-Executive reporting ethical concerns.
Employees are informed of this Director and the second meeting was to agree the process for process through posters which are translated into local appointing the new Group Finance Director.
The process languages and through the Group intranet which is followed was: accessible by all employees.
Employees can report ethical A role and experience profile for both positions was dilemmas or other similar concerns they may have via the discussed and agreed external Employee Hotline and can remain anonymous if they An independent external search consultancy was engaged wish.
Employee concerns are forwarded directly to the to identify candidates who met the role profile Chairman of the Audit Committee or, in the case of issues A short list was created through discussions with the Senior covered by US security legislation, to the Chairman of the Independent Director Security Committee of either Ultras Special Security Non-Executive Directors met the short listed candidates, the Agreement company or Ultras Proxy Board company, results of which were discussed by the Nominations whichever is relevant.
During 2012 two reports were Committee and recommendations were made submitted three in 2011.
These were fully investigated and A meeting with the recommended candidate was appropriate action was taken.
undertaken with the Chief Executive It is the policy of the Group that non-audit services provided by The recruitment process for the appointment of Mark Deloitte, Ultras external auditor, are restricted to regulatory Anderson as Marketing Director was set out in the 2011 reporting, consultancy services associated with financial Annual Report.
restructuring, responding to new reporting requirements, due Ultra operates a well-established succession planning process.
diligence assessments of potential acquisitions and minor This is described in detail on page 37. consultancy work.
The Audit Committee has decided that any individual assignments with an estimated fee in excess of Remuneration Committee 50,000 will be referred in advance to the Chairman of the Role Audit Committee for his approval.
In connection with The Committee met five times during the year.
It is acquisition due diligence work and certain tax consultancy responsible for evaluating the performance of the Executive work, it is the Boards view that the auditors familiarity with Directors, including the Chief Executive, and for setting their Ultras accounting practices and the techniques that are levels of remuneration.
It also meets without the Chairman involved in Ultras long-term contracting activities serves them being present to agree his remuneration.
Full details of the well in carrying out such work.
activities of the Remuneration Committee during 2012 are The senior audit partner employed by Deloitte on the Ultra given in the Directors remuneration report on page 58, audit is subject to a strict policy of regular rotation such that together with details of the Directors pension entitlements, there is a change in this role at least once every five years.
long-term incentive share awards and shareholdings.
It will be This is in accordance with professional practice guidelines.
presented for approval by the shareholders at the Annual The current senior audit partners tenure commenced in 2011.
The Committee has reviewed and monitored the external Statement of going concern auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of Ultras banking facilities amount to 190m in total, plus a the external audit process.
In order to do this it has addressed 15m overdraft.
They were established in two tranches.
the questions contained in a questionnaire issued by the The first tranche comprises 90m of revolving credit, Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland in October 2007. denominated in Sterling, US dollars, Canadian dollars, The Committee confirmed that Deloitte had been sufficiently Australian dollars or Euros.
This facility was signed in January transparent and incisive.
The Committee was satisfied that 2011 and expires in January 2016.
The facility is provided by a previous audits had been effective.
The result of the process group of six banks.
was that the Committee concluded that Deloitte was both The second tranche provides a further 100m of revolving independent and objective and that the reappointment of credit in the same currencies.
This was signed in December Deloitte as external auditor should be recommended to the 2012 with five banks and expires in December 2017.
Accordingly, a resolution to reappoint Deloitte facilities have the same covenants.
will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The fees paid to Deloitte in respect of non-audit services are The Group also has a shelf facility in place with Prudential shown in note 6 to the Financial Statements.
This agreement effectively gave the Group access to the US private placement market on a Nominations Committee bilateral basis.
The facility is non-committed but is for up to Role $150m.
At the year-end, $70m of loan notes had been issued, The function of the Nominations Committee is to review and with maturity dates in 2018 and 2019. recommend all main Board and Committee appointments.
As well as being used to fund acquisitions, the borrowing The Committees terms of reference includes all matters facilities are also used for other balance sheet and indicated by the Code.
The terms of reference are available operational needs, including the funding of day-to-day on the Companys website www.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 57 Corporate governance continued Statement of going concern continued Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the working capital requirements.
The US dollar borrowings also specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable represent natural hedges against assets denominated in that users to understand the impact of particular transactions, currency.
The Groups banking covenants have all been met other events and conditions on the entitys financial during the past year with a comfortable margin.
The position and financial performance approved Group budget for 2013 and strategic plan for later Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as years give confidence that the Group will continue to meet a going concern these covenants.
Details of how Ultra manages its liquidity The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate risk can be found in note 23 Financial Instruments and accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Financial Risk Management.
Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy Though global macro-economic conditions remain uncertain, at any time the financial position of the Company and enable the long-term nature of Ultras business and its positioning in them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the attractive sectors of its markets, taken together with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for Groups forward order book provides a satisfactory level of safeguarding the assets of the Company and for taking confidence in respect of trading in the year to come.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that Ultra has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt a integrity of the corporate and financial information included going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom financial statements.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Responsibility statement and the financial statements in accordance with applicable We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: law and regulations.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the are required to prepare the Group financial statements in consolidation taken as a whole: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards we consider the annual report and accounts to be fair, IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the balanced and understandable and to provide the International Accounting Standards Regulation IAS and information necessary for shareholders to assess the have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial Companys performance, business model and strategy: and statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally the management report, which is incorporated into the Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Directors report, includes a fair review of the development Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the and performance of the business and the position of the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are Company and the undertakings included in the satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board, In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the R. Sharma, Chief Executive Directors are required to: P. Dean, Group Finance Director Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 1 March 2013 consistently Make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: Properly select and apply accounting policies Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information 7.
