REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Membership of the Committee COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE The Audit Committee is comprised only of independent Non-Executive Directors with a minimum requirement of three such members.
During 2012 the Committee comprised Byron Grote ATTENDANCE Chairman, Charles Golden and Kees Storm.
Byron Grote took over the Chairmanship of the Committee on 29 February 2012 from Kees Byron Grote 7 7 Storm and, from this date, he also became the Audit Committees Chairman of the Audit Committee financial expert for the purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in place of Kees Storm.
The Committee met seven times in 2012, and all Committee members attended all the meetings.
The Charles Golden 7 7 Boards have satisfied themselves that the current members of the Kees Storm 7 7 Audit Committee are competent in financial matters and have recent and relevant experience.
Other attendees at Committee meetings This table shows the attendance of Directors at Committee meetings or part thereof were the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Auditor, Group for the year ended 31 December 2012.
If Directors are unable to attend Controller, Chief Legal Officer & Group Secretary and the external a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda auditor.
Throughout the year the Committee members periodically items with the Committee Chairman.
Attendance is expressed as the met without others present and also held separate private sessions number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to attend.
with the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Auditor and the external auditor, allowing the Committee to discuss any issues of emerging concern in more detail directly.
HIGHLIGHTS OF 2012 Role of the Committee The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in written terms of reference which are reviewed annually by the Review of the effectiveness of internal controls over Committee taking into account relevant legislation and recommended good practice.
The terms of reference are contained financial reporting including internal audit findings within The Governance of Unilever which is available on our website Review of the 2011 Annual Report & Accounts at www.
Review of the Groups dividend policy The Committees responsibilities include, but are not limited to, Assessment of the debt crisis and Unilevers the following matters with a view to bringing any relevant issues to the attention of the Boards: response the integrity of Unilevers financial statements: Review of pension costs risk management and internal control arrangements: Review of IT systems, developments and controls compliance with legal and regulatory requirements: Review of commodity risk management the external auditors performance, qualifications and independence, the approval process of non-audit services, Review of legal proceedings, competition, together with their nomination for shareholder approval: and anti-bribery and regulatory matters the performance of the internal audit function.
Review of corporate risks for which the Audit Committee had oversight in 2012 How the Committee has discharged its responsibilities During the year, the Committees principal activities were as follows: Financial statements PRIORITIES FOR 2013 The Committee considered reports from the Chief Financial Officer on the quarterly and annual financial statements, including other financial statements and disclosures prior to their publication and issues reviewed by the Disclosure Committee.
They also reviewed the Review of managements improvements to reporting 2011 Annual Report and Accounts and Annual Report on Form 20-F, and internal financial control arrangements the quarterly performance and accompanying press releases prior Ongoing assessment of new regulatory to publication.
These reviews incorporated the accounting policies and key judgements and estimates underpinning the financial requirements for Audit Committees with respect statements as disclosed within Note 1 on pages 90 and 91, including: to reporting and governance goodwill and intangibles, including impairment analysis: Continual assessment of the corporate risks for core operating profit definition: which the Audit Committee has oversight and business combinations: pension obligations: related mitigation response plans provisions and contingencies: External benchmarking of the Internal Audit function tax charges and taxation: and going concern assessment.
The Committee was satisfied with the accounting treatments adopted.
Risk management and internal control arrangements The Committee reviewed Unilevers overall approach to risk management and control, and its processes, outcomes and disclosure.
It reviewed: 56 Report of the Directors Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION the Controllers Quarterly Risk and Control Status Report, Each year, the Committee assesses the effectiveness of the including Code of Business Principles cases relating to frauds external audit process which includes gaining feedback from and financial crimes and significant complaints received through key stakeholders at all levels across Unilever.
The Committee the global Ethics Hotline: has considered the tenure, quality and fees of the auditors and regular reviews of the 2012 corporate risks for which the Audit determined that a tender for the audit work is not necessary at Committee had oversight and the proposed 2013 corporate this time.
As a result, the Committee has approved the extension risks identified by the Unilever Leadership Executive: of the current external audit contract by one year, and recommended progress on managements improvements to reporting to the Boards the re-appointment of the external auditors.
On the and internal financial control arrangements: recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Directors will be the application of information and communication technology: proposing the re-appointment of  at the tax planning, insurance arrangements and related risk AGMs in May 2013 see pages 137 and 143. management: treasury policies, including debt issuance and hedging: Both Unilever and the auditors have for many years had safeguards commodity risk management, governance and derivatives in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and hedging: and independence could be compromised, such as audit partner rotation litigation and regulatory investigations.
and the restriction on non-audit services that the external auditors can perform as described below.
The Committee reviewed the report The Committee reviewed the application of the requirements from  on the actions they take to comply under Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with with the professional and regulatory requirements and best practice respect to internal controls over financial reporting.
designed to ensure their independence from Unilever.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the annual financial plan The Committee also reviewed the statutory audit, auditrelatedand and Unilevers dividend policy and dividend proposals.
non-audit related services provided by  and compliance with Unilevers documented approach, which prescribes In fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in relation to risk in detail the types ofengagements, listed below, for which the management, internal control and the financial statements, the external auditors canbeused: Committee met regularly with senior members of management statutory audit services, including audit of subsidiaries: and are fully satisfied with the key judgements taken.
audit related engagements services that involve attestation, assurance or certification of factual information that may be Internal audit function required by external parties: The Committee reviewed Corporate Audits audit plan for the year non-audit related services work that our auditors are best and agreed its budget and resource requirements.
It reviewed placed to undertake, which may include: interim and year-end summary reports and managements tax services all significant tax work is put to tender: response.
The Committee carried out an evaluation of the acquisition and disposal services, including related due performance of the internal audit function and was satisfied with diligence, audits and accountants reports: and the effectiveness of the function.
The Committee met independently internal control reviews.
with the Chief Auditor during the year and discussed the results of the audits performed during the year.
Several types of engagements are prohibited, including: bookkeeping or similar services: Audit of the Annual Accounts systems design and implementation related to financial , Unilevers external auditors and information or risk management: independent registered public accounting firm, reported in depth valuation services: to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual audit, actuarial services: including their audit of internal controls over financial reporting internal audit: and as required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. staff secondments to a management function.
Their reports included accounting matters, governance and control, and accounting developments.
All audit related engagements over 250,000 and non-audit related engagements over 100,000 required specific advance approval The Committee held independent meetings with the external of the Audit Committee Chairman.
The Committee further approved auditors during the year and reviewed, agreed, discussed and all engagements below these levels which have been authorised challenged their audit plan, including their assessment of the by the Group Controller.
These authorities are reviewed regularly financial reporting risk profile of the Group.
The Committee and, where necessary, updated in the light of internal developments, discussed the views and conclusions of  external developments and best practice.
Following legislation regarding managements treatment of significant transactions and introduced in the Netherlands with effect from 1 January 2013, areas of judgement during the year and  we have further reduced the types of engagements for which the confirmed they were satisfied that these had been treated external auditors can be used in the Netherlands.
appropriately in the financial statements.
Evaluation of the Audit Committee External auditors The Boards evaluated the performance of the Committee and the The Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance, Committee carried out a self-assessment of its performance, and objectivity and independence of the external auditor and each have concluded the Committee is performing effectively.
recommends the appointment of the external auditor to the Boards.
 and prior to the merger of Price Waterhouse and Coopers & Lybrand, Coopers & Lybrand has been Unilevers sole auditor since 1987.
The last external audit tender Byron Grote was conducted in 2002 and the lead audit partners are rotated Chairman of the Audit Committee every five years.
The Dutch lead audit partner will rotate this year.
Charles Golden The current UK lead audit partner joined the audit team for the Kees Storm 2011 year end and is due to rotate following the 2015 year end.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance 57
