CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairmans Overview Dear shareholders, At Unilever we believe that good corporate governance is integral to the structures and processes that the Boards have put in place to inform, advise, manage and supervise the activities of the Group toward the achievement of its strategic objectives.
Unilever constantly monitors developments and trends in corporate governance.
We are subject to various jurisdictional requirements, the most relevant being those in the Netherlands, UK and US, and therefore we conduct our operations in accordance with internationally accepted principles of good Unilever conducts its operations in corporate governance and best practices, ensuring compliance with the highest of each of those standards.
accordance with internationally accepted principles of good corporate governance and 2012 has been another dynamic year for corporate governance, with the release of many government and regulatory consultations, best practice, aiming to achieve compliance a number of which Unilever has responded to.
The most important with the highest of each of those standards.
of these being the UK Financial Reporting Council FRC publishing the updated UK Corporate Governance Code, including Guidance Michael Treschow on Audit Committees September 2012 and updates to the FRCs Chairman Stewardship Code, the future of narrative reporting and various consultations by the Dutch Corporate Governance Code Monitoring Committee.
Each of the Committee Chairmen has reported on the highlights and activities in 2012, and priorities for 2013, and Effectiveness for the Compensation and Management Resources Committee The effectiveness of Unilevers Boards is assessed primarily formerly the Remuneration Committee in particular, the statutory by an annual Board evaluation process.
During the year I met and regulatory requirements for the reporting of directors with fide Leeuw Management, the external consultancy engaged remuneration, which has been the subject of widespread debate to perform the 2011 Board evaluation, to follow up on the this year.
recommendations made, and I am pleased to say that it is agreed that the Boards continue to make satisfactory progress, details As Chairman, I recognise that effective Boards are central to of which can be found under Ongoing Evaluation on pages 47 Unilevers ongoing success and my leadership of the Boards and 48.
In 2012, our internal evaluation concluded that the Boards plays a significant role.
The following governance report includes continued to operate proficiently.
Comments made by Directors descriptions of Unilevers corporate governance structures in the evaluations were discussed by the Boards to address any and procedures, along with an explanation of the work of the issues or areas for improvement.
Following the 2012 evaluation Boards and how they have applied the principles of leadership, process, I am pleased to confirm that each of the Directors effectiveness, accountability, remuneration, and relations with performance and contribution continues to be effective and shareholders within the Dutch, UK and US Corporate Governance the Boards will be nominating each of them for re-election Codes.
Our corporate governance framework and practice at the 2013 AGMs.
described in the following pages include each of the sections contained within the applicable Corporate Governance Codes, Diversity to provide an understanding of how we apply the main principles.
This year diversity at Board level has continued to be a key topic of governance for companies within the EU and remains high on the agenda of Unilevers Boards and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee formerly the Nomination Committee.
We have long understood the importance of diversity BOARD IN ACTION within our workforce because of the wide range of consumers we connect with globally.
This goes right through our organisation, starting with the Boards.
Looking at gender diversity, we currently Succession planning resulting in three new have three female Board members and, in addition, two female Non-Executive Director candidates proposed Non-Executive Directors are being nominated by the Boards for for election at the 2013 AGMs, to broaden the election at the 2013 AGMs.
However, Unilever feels that gender diversity and knowledge base of the Boards is only one part of diversity and Unilever Directors will continue 2012 internal Board evaluation concluded that to be selected on the basis of their wide-ranging experience, the Boards continue to operate effectively backgrounds, skills, knowledge and insight.
The Nominating International locations for Board meetings, and Corporate Governance Committee reviews Unilevers Diversity providing Directors with a greater understanding Policy on an annual basis.
Our current Board members represent of local businesses and their customers six nationalities, all of which bring with them experience from Continued engagement with shareholders a wide range of international business, professional and public and stakeholders office backgrounds.
Consideration of changes to Dutch and UK Corporate Governance Codes 44 Report of the Directors Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Changes to the Boards Annual General Meetings The current Directors, with their biographies, are shown on This year we held the AGMs of NV and PLC on the same day.
Sunil Bharti Mittal will not offer himself for re-election The Chief Executive Officer and I attended both meetings in at the 2013 AGMs.
During 2012 the Nominating and Corporate person, with half the Board members present attending in person Governance Committee engaged the services of an executive in Rotterdam and the other half in person in London and a satellite search agency to assist with Non-Executive Director succession link between the two venues to facilitate Directors attendance planning.
Russell Reynolds Associates, who also assist in at both meetings.
Following the introduction of this successful the recruitment of senior executives as appropriate, employed format in 2012 we have decided to follow the same format for a rigorous search process, by firstly gaining a thorough the 2013 AGMs, further details of which are contained in the understanding of the strategic goals of Unilever, the specific 2013 Chairmans Letter and Notices of Annual General Meetings.
leadership roles and competencies needed to meet those goals, At the 2012 AGMs all resolutions were passed with votes ranging and the culture of our organisation, in which to identify potential between 98.74% and 99.98% for NV and votes ranging between candidates.
As a result of this, it is the Boards intention to 89.01% and 99.94% for PLC.
nominate Laura Cha, Mary Ma and John Rishton for election to the Boards as Non-Executive Directors at the 2013 AGMs.
Shareholder and Stakeholder Engagement They are all distinguished in their respective fields and will bring Unilever values open, constructive and effective communication additional expertise to the Boards.
In particular, they will all bring with our shareholders.
During 2012 I met with a number of knowledge and an understanding of emerging markets, a prime investors and industry representatives to answer their questions driver of Unilevers growth, and further strengthen the financial and to gain a better understanding of their policies on governance expertise of the Boards.
With three Non-Executive Directors due and voting.
We expect and welcome further engagement with our to reach Unilevers usual nine-year maximum tenure in 2015, institutional investors.
My dialogue with investors this year has we felt it prudent to appoint Non-Executive Directors at this time taken the form of corporate governance issues engagements, to enable them to become familiar with the operations and attending investor events, together with engagement with major governance of the business in the meantime.
The Boards believe investors on a number of occasions, and a meeting with the that the increase in the size of the Boards for this reason will Foundation Unilever NV Trust Office.
The AGMs are also a great improve its effectiveness.
I am sure together the three Nonopportunity for myself and the rest of the Board to engage with Executive Director candidates, if appointed at the 2013 AGMs, shareholders.
We provide a great deal of information on our will add considerably to the business.
The 2013 AGM Notices website that aims to answer any queries about the Group and will be available on our website at www.
com agm from shareholders are also invited to write to me at any time should 2 April 2013.
The three Non-Executive Director candidates will they have a matter they wish to discuss.
participate in a tailored induction programme and join the ongoing training programme in which all Directors participate.
Board Committees Michael Treschow In 2012 the Boards reviewed the names of the Board Committees Chairman in light of governance requirements and general practice in the Netherlands, UK and US, and with effect from 1 January 2013 the Committees are: the Audit Committee no change, Compensation and Management Resources Committee, the Corporate Responsibility Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued About Unilever The Boards have also established committees whose actions Since 1930 when the Unilever Group was formed, NV and PLC, are regularly reported to and monitored by the Boards, and these together with their group companies, have operated as nearly are described on page 50.
Further details of how our Boards as practicable as a single economic entity.
This is achieved by effectively operate as one Board, govern themselves and delegate a series of agreements between NV and PLC the Foundation their authorities, are set out in the document entitled The Agreements, further described on page 52, together with special Governance of Unilever, which can be found at provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC.
However, NV and PLC remain separate legal entities with different Board meetings shareholder constituencies and separate stock exchange listings.
A minimum of five face-to-face meetings is planned throughout Shareholders cannot convert or exchange the shares of one for the calendar year to consider, for example, the half-year and the shares of the other.
full-year results statements of the Group and the Annual Report and Accounts.
Other Board meetings and telephone conferences NV and PLC have the same Directors, adopt the same accounting are held to discuss matters that arise as well as Group strategic principles and pay dividends to their respective shareholders issues.
The Non-Executive Directors meet independently to on an equalised basis.
NV and PLC and their group companies consider agenda items set by them, usually four or five times constitute a single reporting entity for the purposes of presenting a year.
The Chairman, or in his absence the Vice-Chairman Senior consolidated accounts.
Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever Independent Director, presides over such meetings.
Group are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective consolidated accounts.
During the year the Boards will consider important corporate events and actions, such as: Unilever is subject to various corporate governance requirements oversight of the performance of the business: and best practice codes, the most relevant being those in the review of risks and controls: Netherlands, the UK and the US.
As stated in our Code of authorisation of major transactions: Business Principles, Unilever will conduct its operations in declaration of dividends: accordance with internationally accepted principles of good convening of shareholders meetings: corporate governance.
It is therefore Unilevers practice to nominations for Board appointments: comply where practicable with the best practice represented approval of Directors remuneration policy: by the aggregate of these best practice codes.
review of the functioning of the Boards and their Committees: and NV and PLC are holding and service companies, and the review of corporate responsibility and sustainability, business activity of Unilever is carried out by their subsidiaries in particular the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan.
Shares in Group companies may ultimately be held wholly by either NV or PLC or by the two companies Our risk management approach and associated systems in varying proportions.
of internal control are of utmost importance to the Boards and are described further on pages 36 to 41.
The Boards Attendance It has always been a requirement of Unilever that the same people The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Board be on the Boards of the two parent companies.
This guarantees meetings for the year ended 31 December 2012.
If Directors are that all matters are considered by the Boards as a single intellect, unable to attend a Board meeting they have the opportunity reaching the same conclusions on the same set of facts save beforehand to discuss any agenda items with the Chairman.
where specific local factors apply.
It is essential that in reaching Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended the same decisions the NV and PLC Boards identify and resolve out of the number eligible to attend.
In 2012 we brought forward any potential conflicts of interest between NV and PLC.
our financial reporting timetable which required us to reschedule a number of Board meetings in 2012.
As a consequence, certain The Boards are one-tier boards, comprising Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors were unable to attend these rescheduled and, in a majority, Non-Executive Directors.
The Boards have Board meetings.
ultimate responsibility for the management, general affairs, direction, performance and long-term success of our business Main as a whole.
The responsibility of the Directors is collective, taking Board into account their respective roles as Executive Directors and a Non-Executive Directors.
Michael Treschow 9 9 Kees Storm 9 9 b Paul Polman 9 9 The Boards have, with the exception of certain matters which b Jean-Marc Hut 9 9 are reserved for them, delegated the operational running of the Louise Fresco 9 9 Group to the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer Ann Fudge 8 9 is responsible to the Boards and is able to sub-delegate any of Charles Golden 7 9 his powers and discretions.
Matters reserved for the Boards Byron Grote 9 9 include structural and constitutional matters, corporate Sunil B Mittal 6 9 governance, approval of dividends, approval of overall strategy Hixonia Nyasulu 9 9 Sir Malcolm Rifkind 9 9 for the Group and approval of significant transactions or Paul Walsh 9 9 arrangements in relation to mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures and disposals, capital expenditure, contracts, litigation, financing a Chairman b and pensions.
Executive Director 46 Report of the Directors Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Meetings of the Boards may be held either in London or A procedure is in place to enable Directors, if they so wish, Rotterdam or such other locations as the Boards think fit, to seek independent advice at Unilevers expense.
with one or two off-site Board meetings a year.
In 2012, Board meetings were held in Port Sunlight, UK: Istanbul, Turkey: and Board evaluation Paris, France.
In these locations the Boards learnt more about Unilevers Chairman, in conjunction with the Vice-Chairman the business in the UK, the politico-economic view of Turkey Senior Independent Director, leads the process whereby the and the trading environment in France.
Visits such as these allow Boards formally assess their own performance, with the aim the Non-Executive Directors to meet senior managers around of helping to improve the effectiveness of the Boards and their Unilevers global business and in turn allow them to gain a deeper Committees.
The evaluation process consists of an internal understanding of the business.
exercise performed annually with an independent third-party evaluation carried out at least once every three years.
Appointment of Directors Upon consideration and recommendation from the Nominating This year we took a more rigorous approach to our internal and Corporate Governance Committee for a candidate to be evaluation process by engaging an independent governance nominated by the Boards as an independent Director, Directors specialist.
This external source challenged and provided insight are appointed by shareholders at the AGMs.
All existing Directors, into the questions in our Board, CEO and Chairmans evaluation unless they are retiring, submit themselves for re-election every questionnaires and resulted in the creation of three full and year, and shareholders vote to re-appoint them by a simple confidential questionnaires for all Directors to complete, hosted majority vote.
A list of our current Directors and the periods for the first time using online facilities.
The detailed questionnaire during which they have served as such is set out on page42.
invited comments on a number of key areas including board responsibility, operations, effectiveness, training and knowledge.
In order to seek to ensure that NV and PLC have the same In addition, each year the Chairman conducts a process of Directors, the Articles of Association of NV and PLC contain evaluating the performance and contribution of each Director that provisions which are designed to ensure that both NV and PLC includes a one-to-one performance and feedback discussion with shareholders are presented with the same candidates for election each Director.
The evaluation of the performance of the Chairman as Directors.
This is achieved through a nomination procedure is led by the Vice-Chairman Senior Independent Director and operated by the Boards of NV and PLC through Unilevers the Chairman leads the evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
both using the bespoke questionnaires.
Committees of the Boards evaluate themselves annually under supervision of their Based on the evaluation of the Boards, its Committees and its respective chairmen taking into account the views of respective individual Directors, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee members and the Boards.
Committee recommends to each Board a list of candidates for nomination re-election at the AGMs of both NV and PLC.
In addition, shareholders are able to nominate Directors.
To Ongoing evaluation do so they must put a resolution to both AGMs in line with local In the table on the following page we report progress on the requirements.
However, in order to ensure that the Boards key actions agreed by the Boards on a year-on-year basis, in remain identical, anyone being elected as a Director of NV must order to provide a meaningful assessment of the challenges also be elected as a Director of PLC and vice versa.
Therefore, the Boards face as they evolve and an insight into how well if an individual fails to be elected to both companies then he or they respond to those challenges.
she will be unable to take their place on either Board.
The provisions in the Articles of Association for appointing Directors cannot be changed without the permission, in the case of NV, of the holders of the special ordinary shares numbered 1 to 2,400 inclusive and, in the case of PLC, of the holders of PLCs deferred stock.
The NV special ordinary shares may only be transferred to one or more other holders of such shares.
The joint holders of both the NV special ordinary shares and the PLC deferred stock are N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited, which are joint subsidiaries of NV and PLC.
The Boards of N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited comprise the members of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, which comprise Non-Executive Directors of Unilever only.
Board induction, training and support Upon election, Directors receive a comprehensive Directors Information Pack and are briefed thoroughly on their responsibilities and the business with a tailored induction programme.
The Chairman ensures that ongoing training is provided for Directors by way of site visits, presentations and circulated updates at Board and Board Committee meetings on, among other things, Unilevers business, environmental, social and corporate governance, regulatory developments and investor relations matters.
In 2012 the Board knowledge sessions were on digital strategy, Unilevers Foods strategy and the supply chain.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Date Action Progress 2012 evaluation Shape the meeting agendas to enable Directors to 2013 agendas structured around strategic bring more of their personal experience and insight priorities and operational topic areas rather than internal to the discussions being weighted towards category and geographical performance Directors to receive more regular feedback from The comprehensive personal and Board evaluations the Chairman on their personal contributions performed at year end are to be supplemented by a mid-year discussion between the Chairman and each Director Enhance the ways of working for the Committees Information flows from management have been defined and priorities for each Committee agreed for the year Further interaction between Non-Executive Directors Time to be built into personal and Board agendas and Senior Executives around site visits or otherwise throughout the year for Non-Executive Directors to interact with Senior Executives Greater periodic review by the Board of historic More frequent periodic reviews of historic decisions decisions taken and actions agreed taken and actions agreed to be built into the agendas 2011 evaluation Build some sessions into the agenda during which the Strategic discussions have been expanded to Directors can share experiences on a specific topic include blue sky thinking around topics influenced external by Unilevers strategy including e-commerce, Eurozone and looking ahead to 2020 Build into the end of each Board meeting agenda Meetings are now concluded with a summary by a five-minute session during which actions taken the Chairman of key decisions and actions taken can be reviewed and feedback given on the Meeting 2010 evaluation Increase Board representation from China and India Sunil Bharti Mittal from India was appointed to the Boards following shareholder approval at the AGMs internal in May 2011, and two Non-Executive Directors from China are being proposed at the 2013 AGMs Consider using electronic methods of receiving Board Unilever now uses an online tool for dissemination meeting materials of Board meeting materials with no hard copy meeting packs now being produced Meetings to focus more on gaining knowledge Presentations are now shorter to allow more experience from the Directors rather than simply time for feedback from Directors and discussion providing them with information between Directors Continue to hold important educational sessions Board knowledge sessions are built into the meeting timetable and held at least three times each year 48 Report of the Directors Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our Directors Meetings The Non-Executive Directors meet as a group, without the Executive Directors present, under the leadership of the Non-Executive Directors Chairman to consider specific agenda items and wide-ranging business matters of relevance to the Group.
In 2012 they met Chairman five times.
Unilever has an independent Non-Executive Chairman and a Chief Executive Officer.
There is a clear division of responsibilities Independence between their roles.
Following the conclusion of a thorough review of all relevant relationships of the Non-Executive Directors, and their related or The Chairman is primarily responsible for leadership of the connected persons, our Boards consider all of our Non-Executive Boards and ensuring their effectiveness.
The Chairman sets the Directors to be independent of Unilever by reference to the criteria Boards agenda, ensures the Directors receive accurate, timely set out in The Governance of Unilever and derived from the and clear information, promotes effective relationships and open relevant best practice guidelines in the Netherlands, UK and US.
communication between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors and maintains effective communication with major None of our Non-Executive Directors are elected or appointed shareholders.
With the Group Secretary, the Chairman will take under any arrangement or understanding with any major the lead in providing a properly constructed induction programme shareholder, customer, supplier or otherwise.
for new Directors that is comprehensive, formal and tailored.
Remuneration Vice-Chairman Senior Independent Director The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined Kees Storm is Vice-Chairman Senior Independent Director.
He by the Boards, within the overall limit set by the shareholders at acts as the Boards spokesman, and serves as an intermediary the AGMs in 2007, and is reported on page 80.
We do not grant our for the other Directors when necessary.
He is also a point of Non-Executive Directors any personal loans or guarantees nor contact for shareholders if they have concerns which cannot are they entitled to any severance payments.
be resolved through the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer.
Tenure Non-Executive Directors Subject to individual review, the Boards propose the Non-Executive The Non-Executive Directors share responsibility, together with Directors for re-election each year at the AGMs.
Although the Dutch the Executive Directors, for the execution of the Boards duties.
Corporate Governance Code sets the suggested length of tenure The role of Non-Executive Directors is essentially supervisory.
at a maximum of 12 years for Non-Executive Directors, they As they make up the Committees of the Boards, it is important normally serve for a maximum of nine years.
Their nomination that they can be considered to be independent.
for re-election is subject to continued good performance which is evaluated by the Boards, based on the recommendations of the Role and Responsibilities Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
The key elements of the role and responsibilities of the Non-Executive Directors are: Executive Directors supervision of, and advice to, the Chief Executive Officer: developing strategy with the Chief Executive Officer: Chief Executive Officer scrutiny of performance of the business and the Chief The Chief Executive Officer has the authority to determine which Executive Officer: duties regarding the operational management of the companies oversight of risks and controls: and their business enterprises will be carried out under his reporting of performance: responsibility, by one or more Executive Directors or by one remuneration of and succession planning for Executive or more other persons.
This provides a basis for the ULE that Directors: and is chaired by and reports to the Chief Executive Officer.
For ULE governance and compliance.
The Non-Executive Directors are chosen individually for Executive Directors their broad and relevant experience and international outlook, During 2012, Unilever continued to have two Executive Directors, as well as for their independence and details of their various the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, who were appointments can be found in their biographies on page 42. also members of the ULE and are full-time employees of Unilever.
In consultation with the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Boards review both the adequacy of succession The Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election planning processes and succession planning itself at both Board at the AGMs each year, and the Nominating and Corporate and Unilever Leadership Executive ULE level.
The profile set Governance Committee carefully considers each nomination by the Boards for the Non-Executive Directors provides guiding for re-appointment.
Executive Directors stop holding executive principles for the composition of the Boards in line with the office on ceasing to be Directors.
recommendations of applicable governance regulations and best practice, and takes into account the balance of skills, We do not grant our Executive Directors any personal loans diversity, knowledge and experience on the Boards.
set by the Boards for the Non-Executive Directors and the schedule used for orderly succession planning can be found There are no family relationships between any of our Executive in The Governance of Unilever document and on our website Directors, members of the ULE or Non-Executive Directors, at www.
and none of our Executive Directors or other key management personnel are elected or appointed under any arrangement or understanding with any major shareholder, customer, supplier or otherwise.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Outside appointments Group Secretary Unilever recognises the benefit to the individual and to the Group The Group Secretary is available to advise all Directors on of involvement by Unilever senior executives acting as directors matters relating to the governance of the Group and ensures of other companies outside the Unilever Group, broadening their that Board procedures are complied with.
The Group Secretary experience and knowledge.
For our Executive Directors, the is Tonia Lovell.
number of outside directorships of listed companies is generally limited to one per individual, and in the case of publicly listed companies approval is required from the Chairman.
Outside directorships must not involve an excessive commitment or conflict of interest.
Fees paid in connection with an outside directorship may be retained by the individual, reflecting that any outside directorship is the responsibility of the individual and that Unilever takes no responsibility in this regard.
Director matters Conflicts of interest We attach special importance to avoiding conflicts of interest between NV and PLC and their Directors.
The Boards are responsible for ensuring that there are rules in place to avoid Tonia Lovell conflicts of interest by Board members.
Conflicts of interest Group Secretary are understood not to include transactions and other activities between companies in the Unilever Group.
Authorisation of situational conflicts is given by the Boards to the relevant Director.
The authorisation includes conditions Our Committees relating to keeping Unilever information confidential and to their exclusion from receiving and discussing relevant information at Board meetings.
Situational conflicts are reviewed annually by Board Committees the Boards as part of the determination of Director independence.
The Boards have established four Board Committees, the Audit In between those reviews Directors have a duty to inform the Committee, the Compensation and Management Resources Boards of any relevant changes to the situation.
A Director Committee, the Corporate Responsibility Committee and the may not vote on, or be counted in a quorum in relation to, any Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, all formally resolution of the Boards in respect of any contract in which he or set up by Board resolutions with defined remits.
They are all she has a material interest.
The procedures that Unilever has put made up solely of Non-Executive Directors and report regularly in place to deal with conflicts of interest have operated effectively.
Borrowing powers All Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake The borrowing powers of NV Directors on behalf of NV are their duties, and the terms of reference for each Committee are not limited by the Articles of Association of NV.
PLC Directors contained within The Governance of Unilever which is available have the power to borrow on behalf of PLC up to three times at www.
the PLC proportion of the adjusted capital and reserves of the Unilever Group, as defined in PLCs Articles of Association, The reports of each Committee can be found on pages 56 to 81. without the approval of shareholders by way of an ordinary resolution.
Attendance Attendance tables can be found within each Committee Report.
Indemnification If Directors are unable to attend a Committee meeting, they have The terms of Directors indemnification are provided for in NVs the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda items Articles of Association.
The power to indemnify Directors is with the chairman of the meeting.
provided for in PLCs Articles of Association and deeds of indemnity have been issued to all PLC Directors.
Appropriate Management Committee qualifying third-party Directors and Officers liability insurance was in place for all Unilever Directors throughout 2012 and is Disclosure Committee currently in force.
The Boards have set up, through the Chief Executive Officer, a Disclosure Committee which is responsible for helping the In addition, PLC provides indemnities including, where Boards ensure that financial and other information required applicable, a qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision to be disclosed publicly is disclosed in a timely manner and that to the Directors from time to time of two subsidiaries that act the information that is disclosed is complete and accurate in all as trustee respectively of two of Unilevers UK pension schemes.
Appropriate trustee liability insurance is also in place.
The Committee comprises the Controller Chairman, the Group Secretary and Chief Legal Officer, the Treasurer and the NV and PLC Deputy Secretaries.
50 Report of the Directors Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our Shareholders Shareholder proposed resolutions Shareholders of NV may propose resolutions if they individually or together hold 1% of NVs issued capital in the form of shares Shareholder matters or depositary receipts for shares, or if they individually or together hold shares or depositary receipts worth 50 million.
Shareholder and Stakeholder Engagement Shareholders who together represent at least 10% of the issued The Chief Financial Officer has lead responsibility for investor capital of NV can also requisition Extraordinary General Meetings relations, with the active involvement of the Chief Executive Officer.
to deal with specific resolutions.
They are supported by our Investor Relations department which organises presentations for analysts and investors, and such Shareholders of PLC who together hold shares representing at presentations are generally made available on our website.
least 5% of the total voting rights of PLC, or 100 shareholders who Briefings on quarterly results are given via teleconference and are hold on average 100 each in nominal value of PLC share capital, accessible by telephone or via our website.
For further information can require PLC to propose a resolution at a General Meeting.
PLC shareholders holding in aggregate 5% of the issued PLC ordinary shares are able to convene a General Meeting of PLC.
The Boards are briefed on reactions to quarterly results announcements.
They, or the relevant Board Committee, Required majorities are briefed on any issues raised by shareholders that are Resolutions are usually adopted at NV and PLC shareholder relevant to their responsibilities.
Our shareholders can raise meetings by an absolute majority of votes cast, unless there issues directly with the Chairman and, if appropriate, the are other requirements under the applicable laws or NVs or Vice-Chairman Senior Independent Director.
For example, there are special requirements for resolutions relating to the alteration of the Both NV and PLC communicate with their respective Articles of Association, the liquidation of NV or PLC and the shareholders at the AGMs as well as responding to their alteration of the Equalisation Agreement.
questions and enquiries during the course of the year.
We take the views of our shareholders into account and, in accordance A proposal to alter the Articles of Association of NV can only with all applicable legislation and regulations, may consult them be made by the Board of NV.
A proposal to alter the Articles in an appropriate way before putting proposals to our AGMs.
of Association of PLC can be made either by the Board of PLC or by approval of shareholders by special resolution in accordance General Meetings of shareholders with the UK Companies Act 2006.
Unless expressly specified to At the AGMs, a review is given of the progress of the business the contrary in the Articles of Association of PLC, PLCs Articles over the last year and there is a discussion of current issues.
of Association may be amended by a special resolution.
Proposals Shareholders are encouraged to attend the meetings and ask to alter the provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and questions, and the question and answer sessions form an PLC respectively relating to the unity of management require the important part of the meetings.
The business generally conducted prior approval of meetings of the holders of the NV special includes approval adoption of the Annual Report and Accounts, ordinary shares and the PLC deferred stock.
The Articles of appointment of directors, appointment of external auditors, and Association of both NV and PLC can be found on our website authorisation for the Boards to allot and repurchase shares.
General Meetings of shareholders of NV and PLC are held Right to hold shares at times and places decided by our Boards.
NV meetings are Unilevers constitutional documents place no limitations on normally held in Rotterdam and PLC meetings are normally the right to hold NV and PLC shares.
There are no limitations held in London.
on the right to hold or exercise voting rights on the ordinary shares of NV and PLC imposed by Dutch or English law.
The external auditors are welcomed to the AGMs and they are entitled to address the meetings.
Electronic communication Shareholders of NV and PLC can electronically appoint a proxy Voting rights to vote on their behalf at the respective AGM.
Shareholders of PLC NV shareholders can cast one vote for each 0.16 nominal capital can also choose to receive electronic notification that the Annual that they hold.
This means that they can cast one vote for each NV Report and Accounts and Notice of AGMs have been published ordinary share or NV New York Registry Share.
Shareholders can on our website, instead of receiving printed copies.
vote in person or by proxy.
Similar arrangements apply to holders of depositary receipts issued for NV shares and the holders of NV Share capital matters preference shares.
PLC shareholders can cast one vote for each 1 3 p nominal capital that they hold.
This means shareholders can Margarine Union 1930 Limited: Conversion Rights 9 cast one vote for each PLC ordinary share or PLC American The first Viscount Leverhulme was the founder of the company Depositary Receipt of shares.
When he died in 1925, he left in his will a large number of PLC shares in various trusts.
The Trustees of the PLC employee share trusts may vote or abstain in any way they think fit and in doing so may take When the will trusts were varied in 1983, the interests of the into account both financial and non-financial interests of the beneficiaries of his will were also preserved.
Four classes of beneficiaries of the employee share trusts or their dependants.
special shares were created in Margarine Union 1930 Limited, Historically the Trustees tend not to exercise this right.
One of these classes can be converted at the end of the year 2038 into 70,875,000 PLC ordinary shares 1 More information on the exercise of voting rights can be found of 3 p each.
As at 4 March 2013 this represents 5.4% of PLCs 9 in NVs and PLCs Articles of Association and in the respective issued ordinary capital.
These convertible shares replicate the Notices of Meetings which can be found on our website at rights which the descendants of the first Viscount would have www.
This class of the special shares only has a right to dividends in specified circumstances, and no dividends have yet been paid.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Foundation Unilever NV Trust Office NVs and PLCs Articles of Association, together with the additional The Foundation Unilever NV Trust Office Stichting three Foundation Agreements detailed below, can be found on our Administratiekantoor Unilever N. V. is a trust office with a website at www.
As part of its corporate objects, the Foundation issues depositary receipts in exchange for the Equalisation Agreement NV ordinary shares and NV 7% preference shares it holds in NV.
The Equalisation Agreement makes the economic position of the These depositary receipts are listed on Euronext Amsterdam, shareholders of NV and PLC, as far as possible, the same as if as are the NV ordinary and 7% preference shares themselves.
they held shares in a single company.
The Equalisation Agreement regulates the mutual rights of the shareholders of NV and PLC.
Holders of depositary receipts can under all circumstances Under the Equalisation Agreement, NV and PLC must adopt the exchange their depositary receipts for the underlying shares and same financial periods and accounting policies.
vice versa and are entitled to dividends and all economic benefits on the underlying shares held by the Foundation.
They can attend Each NV ordinary share represents the same underlying all General Meetings of NV, either personally or by proxy, and also economic interest in the Unilever Group as each PLC have the right to speak.
They can under all circumstances and ordinary share.
without limitation exercise their voting rights.
The Foundation only votes shares that are not represented at a General Meeting.
The The Deed of Mutual Covenants Foundation votes in such a way as it deems to be in the interests The Deed of Mutual Covenants provides that NV and PLC and of the holders of the depositary receipts.
This voting policy is laid their respective subsidiary companies shall co-operate in every down in the Conditions of Administration that apply to the way for the purpose of maintaining a common operating policy.
They shall exchange all relevant information about their respective businesses the intention being to create and maintain The Foundations shareholding fluctuates daily.
Its holdings on a common operating platform for the Unilever Group throughout 4 March 2013 were 1,321,784,807 NV ordinary shares 77.08% the world.
The Deed also contains provisions for the allocation and 9,776 NV 7% cumulative preference shares 33.71%.
of assets between NV and PLC.
The members of the board at the Foundation are Mr J H Schraven The Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing chairman, Mr P P fide Koning, Prof Emeritus Dr L Koopmans Under the Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing and Mr A A Olijslager.
The Foundation reports periodically on its between NV and PLC, each company will, if asked by the other, activities.
Further information on the Foundation, including its guarantee the borrowings of the other.
The two companies also Articles of Association and Conditions of Administration, can be jointly guarantee the borrowings of their subsidiaries.
These found on its website at www.
arrangements are used, as a matter of financial policy, for certain significant public borrowings.
They enable lenders Unilever considers the arrangements of the Foundation to rely on our combined financial strength.
appropriate and in the interest of NV and its shareholders given the size of the voting rights attached to the financing preference shares and the relatively low attendance of holders of ordinary shares at the General Meetings of NV.
Our requirements and compliance Further information on the share capital of NV and PLC is given on pages 54 and 55.
Requirements and compliance general Unilever is subject to corporate governance requirements in the Netherlands, the UK and the US.
In this section we report on our compliance with the corporate governance regulations and best Our Foundation Agreements practice codes applicable in the Netherlands and the UK and we also describe compliance with corporate governance standards in the US.
Foundation Agreements The Unilever Group is created and maintained by a series Under the European Takeover Directive as implemented in the of agreements between the parent companies, NV and PLC, Netherlands and the UK, the UK Companies Act 2006 and rules of together with special provisions in their respective Articles the US Securities and Exchange Commission, Unilever is required of Association, which are together known as the Foundation to provide information on contracts and other arrangements Agreements.
These agreements enable Unilever to achieve essential or material to the business of the Group.
Other than unity of management, operations, shareholders rights, the Foundation Agreements discussed above, we believe we purpose and mission.
Further information on these do not have any such contracts or arrangements.
agreements is provided below and in the document entitled The Governance of Unilever which is available on our website Our governance arrangements are designed and structured at www.
to promote and further the interests of our companies and their shareholders.
The Boards however reserve the right, in cases NVs Articles of Association contain, among other things, the where they decide such to be in the interests of the companies objects clause, which sets out the scope of activities that NV is or our shareholders, to depart from that which is set out in the authorised to undertake.
They are drafted to give a wide scope present and previous sections in relation to our corporate and provide that the primary objectives are: to carry on business governance.
Any such changes will be reported in future Annual as a holding company: to manage any companies in which it has Reports and Accounts and, when necessary, through changes to an interest: and to operate and carry into effect the Equalisation the relevant documents published on our website.
At the 2010 PLC AGM, the shareholders agreed that proposals for change will be put to our shareholders for approval.
the objects clause be removed from PLCs Articles of Association so that there are no restrictions on its objects.
52 Report of the Directors Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our principal risks and our approach to risk management and than on their nominal value bpp IV.
NV agrees with this systems of internal control are described on pages 36 to 41. principle but cannot unilaterally reduce voting rights of its outstanding preference shares.
Requirements The Netherlands NV complies with almost all of the principles and best Anti-takeover constructions and control over the company practice provisions of the Dutch Corporate Governance NV confirms that it has no anti-takeover constructions, in the Code Dutch Code, a copy of which is available at sense of constructions that are intended solely, or primarily, www.
to block future hostile public offers for its shares bpp IV.
Nor does NV have any constructions whose specific purpose Unilever places a great deal of importance on corporate is to prevent a bidder, after acquiring 75% of the capital, from responsibility and sustainability as is evidenced by our appointing or dismissing members of the Board and subsequently vision to double the size of the company while reducing our altering the Articles of Association.
The acquisition through environmental impact.
Unilever is keen to ensure focus on a public offer of a majority of the shares in a company does not key financial performance measures which we believe to under Dutch law preclude in all circumstances the continued be the drivers of shareholder value creation and relative total right of the board of the company to exercise its powers.
Unilever therefore believes that the interests of the business and shareholders are best served by linking Meetings of analysts and presentations to investors the long-term share plans to the measures as described in the We have extensive procedures for handling relations with Directors Remuneration Report and has not included a nonand communicating with shareholders, investors, analysts financial performance indicator Principle II.
2.3. and the media see also page 51.
The important presentations and meetings are conducted as far as practicable in accordance Risk management and control with the Dutch Code bpp IV.
Due to their large number As a result of the review of the Audit Committee as described and overlap in information, however, some of the less important in its report on pages 56 and 57 the Boards believe that as ones are not announced in advance, made accessible to everyone regards financial reporting risks, the risk management and or put on our website.
control systems provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements do not contain any errors of material importance and Corporate Governance Statement the risk management and control systems have worked properly NV is required to make a statement concerning corporate in 2012 bpp II.
1.5. governance as referred to in article 2a of the decree on additional requirements for annual reports Vaststellingsbesluit nadere The aforesaid statements are not statements in accordance with voorschriften inhoud jaarverslag with effect from 1 January 2010 the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act the Decree.
The information required to be included in this of2002.
corporate governance statement as described in articles 3, 3a and 3b of the Decree can be found in the following sections of this Retention period of shares Annual Report and Accounts: The Dutch Code recommends that shares granted to Executive the information concerning compliance with the Dutch Code, Directors must be retained for a period of at least five years bpp as required by article 3 of the Decree, can be found under II.
Our shareholder-approved remuneration policy requires Corporate Governance within the section Requirements Executive Directors to build and retain a personal shareholding the Netherlands: in Unilever.
The Boards believe that this is in line with the spirit the information concerning Unilevers risk management and of the Dutch Code.
control frameworks relating to the financial reporting process, as required by article 3a a of the Decree, can be found under Severance pay Outlook and risks on pages 36 to 41 and within the relevant It is our policy to set the level of severance payments for sections under Corporate Governance: Directors at no more than one years salary, unless the Boards, the information regarding the functioning of NVs General at the proposal of the Compensation and Management Resources Meeting of shareholders, and the authority and rights of NVs Committee, find this manifestly unreasonable given circumstances shareholders, as required by article 3a b of the Decree, can be or unless otherwise dictated by applicable law bpp II.
2.8. found within the relevant sections under Corporate Governance: the information regarding the composition and functioning Compensation and Management Resources Committee of NVs Board and its Committees, as required by article 3a c The Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Decree, can be found within the relevant sections under formerly the Remuneration Committee may not be chaired Corporate Governance: and by a Board member who is a member of the management board the information concerning the inclusion of the information of another listed company bpp III.
Paul Walsh is Chairman required by the decree Article 10 European Takeover Directive, of the Compensation and Management Resources Committee as required by article 3b of the Decree, can be found within the and has been CEO of Diageo Plc since 2000.
Paul has profound relevant sections under Corporate Governance.
knowledge and understanding of remuneration matters at companies operating globally and understands how remuneration policies support the growth objective.
His experience and insight Requirements The United Kingdom of remuneration matters is very valuable to Unilever.
The Boards PLC is required, as a company that is incorporated in the UK believe that Mr Walsh is ideally placed for the position of Chairman and listed on the London Stock Exchange, to state how it has of the Compensation and Management Resources Committee.
applied the main principles and how far it has complied with the provisions set out in the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code, Financing preference shares a copy of which is available at www.
NV issued 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares between 1927 and 1964.
Their voting rights are based on their nominal In the preceding pages we have described how we have value, as prescribed by Dutch law.
The Dutch Code recommends applied the main principles and the provisions of the UK Code.
that the voting rights on such shares should, in any event when In 2012, PLC complied with all UK Code provisions.
they are newly issued, be based on their economic value rather Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Risk management and control Share capital Our approach to risk management and systems of internal control is in line with the recommendations in the report on Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors on the UK Combined NVs issued share capital on 31 December 2012 was made up of: Code The Turnbull guidance.
It is Unilevers practice to bring 274,356,432 split into 1,714,727,700 ordinary shares acquired companies within the Groups governance procedures of 0.16 each: as soon as is practicable and in any event by the end of the first 1,028,568 split into 2,400 ordinary shares numbered full year of operation.
1 to 2,400 known as special shares: and 81,454,014 split into two classes 6% and 7% of Requirements The United States cumulative preference shares financing preference shares.
Both NV and PLC are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
As such, both companies must comply with the requirements The voting rights attached to NVs outstanding shares are split of US legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as follows: regulations enacted under US securities laws and the Listing Total number of votes % of issued capital Standards of the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, that are applicable to foreign private issuers, copies of which are a 1,714,727,700 ordinary shares 1,714,727,700 76.89 available at www.
2,400 special shares 6,428,550 0.29 161,060 6% cumulative b preference shares 431,409,276 19.34 We are compliant with the Listing Standards of the NYSE 29,000 7% cumulative applicable to foreign private issuers.
c preference shares 77,678,313 3.48 a We are also required to disclose any significant ways in which our Of which 141,560,629 shares were held in treasury and 16,789,821 shares were held to satisfy obligations under share-based incentive schemes corporate governance practices differ from those typically followed as at 31 December 2012.
These shares are not voted on.
by US companies listed on the NYSE.
Our corporate governance b Of which 37,679 6% cumulative preference shares were held in treasury practices do not significantly differ from those required of US as at 31 December 2012.
companies listed on the NYSE.
Attention is drawn to the Report of c Of which 7,562 7% cumulative preference shares were held in treasury the Audit Committee on pages 56 and 57.
In addition, further details as at 31 December 2012.
about our corporate governance are provided in the document entitled The Governance of Unilever, which can be found on our NV may issue shares not yet issued and grant rights to subscribe website at www.
for shares only pursuant to a resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders or of another corporate body designated for such All senior executives and senior financial officers have declared purpose by a resolution of the General Meeting.
At the NV AGM their understanding of and compliance with Unilevers Code of held on 9 May 2012 the Board was designated, in accordance with Business Principles and the related Code Policies.
No waiver from Articles 96 and 96a of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, as the any provision of the Code of Business Principles or Code Policies corporate body authorised until 9 November 2013 to resolve on was granted in 2012 to any of the persons falling within the scope the issue of or on the granting of rights to subscribe for shares of the SEC requirements.
The Code Policies include mandatory not yet issued and to restrict or exclude the statutory pre-emption requirements covering, but not limited to, the following areas: rights that accrue to shareholders upon issue of shares, on the accurate records, reporting and accounting: anti-bribery: understanding that this authority is limited to 10% of the issued avoiding conflicts of interest: gifts and entertainment: preventing share capital of NV, plus an additional 10% of the issued share insider trading: political activities and political donations: capital of NV in connection with or on the occasion of mergers contact with government, regulators and non-governmental andacquisitions.
organisations: respect, dignity and fair treatment: and external communications the media, investors and analysts.
At the 2012 NV AGM the Board of NV was authorised, in Our Code of Business Principles can be found on our website accordance with Article 98 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil at www.
Code, until 9 November 2013 to cause NV to buy back its own shares and depositary receipts thereof, with a maximum of Risk management and control 10%ofissued share capital, either through purchase on a stock Based on an evaluation by the Boards, the Chief Executive Officer exchange or otherwise, at a price, excluding expenses, not lower and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that the design and than the nominal value of the shares and not higher than 10% operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures, above the average of the closing price of the shares on Eurolist including those defined in United States Securities Exchange byEuronext Amsterdam for the five business days before the Act of 1934 Rule 13a 15 e, as at 31 December 2012 were dayon which the purchase is made.
effective, and that subsequently until the date of the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts by the Boards, there have The above mentioned authorities are renewed annually.
been no significant changes in the Groups internal controls, or in other factors that could significantly affect those controls.
Unilever is required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to report on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting.
This requirement will be reported on separately and will form part of Unilevers Annual Report on Form 20-F. 54 Report of the Directors Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION PLCs issued share capital on 31 December 2012 was made up of: Significant shareholders of PLC 40,760,420 split into 1,310,156,361 ordinary shares The following table gives notified details of shareholders who 1 of 3 9p each: and held more than 3% of, or 3% of voting rights attributable to, PLCs 100,000 of deferred stock.
shares or deferred stock excluding treasury shares on 4 March 2013.
The voting rights of such shareholders are the same as for The total number of voting rights attached to PLCs outstanding other holders of the class of share indicated.
shares is as follows: Title of Number of Approximate class Name of holder shares held % held Total number of votes % of issued capital Deferred a 1,310,156,361 ordinary shares 1,310,156,361 99.76 Stock Naamlooze Vennootschap Elma 50,000 50 100,000 deferred stock 3,214,285 0.24 United Holdings Limited 50,000 50 a Of which 26,696,994 shares were held by PLC in treasury and 8,046,353 shares were held by NV group companies or by share trusts as at Ordinary 31December 2012.
shares BlackRock, Inc. 74,570,243 5 Trustees of the Leverhulme Trust and the Leverhulme The Board of PLC may, under sections 551, 570 and 571 of Trade Charities Trust 70,566,764 5 the UK Companies Act 2006 and subject to the passing of the appropriate resolutions at a meeting of shareholders, issue shares within the limits prescribed within the resolutions.
At the Between 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2012, Legal & General 2012 PLC AGM the Directors were authorised to issue new shares Group plc and BlackRock, Inc. have held more than 3% of, or pursuant to section 551 of the UK Companies Act 2006, limited 3% of voting rights attributable to, PLCs ordinary shares.
During to amaximum of 13,300,000 nominal value, which at the time this period, and as notified, these holdings reduced to below the represented approximately 33% of PLCs issued ordinary share 3% reporting threshold.
The table above sets out the notifiable capital and pursuant to section 570 of the UK Companies Act, to interest of shares or voting rights attributable to PLC as at disapply pre-emption rights up to approximately 5% of PLCs issued 4 March 2013. ordinary share capital.
These authorities are renewed annually.
Controlling security holders At the 2012 PLC AGM the Board of PLC was authorised in To our knowledge, the Unilever Group is not owned or controlled, accordance with its Articles of Association to make market directly or indirectly, by another corporation, any foreign purchases of its ordinary shares representing just under 10% government or by any other legal or natural person.
We are ofPLCs issued capital and within the limits prescribed within not aware of any arrangements the operation of which may theresolution until the earlier of the six-month anniversary at a subsequent date result in a change of control of Unilever.
after the 2012 year end or the conclusion of the 2013 PLC AGM.
Asimilar authority will be sought at the 2013 AGM of PLC Purchases of shares during 2012 pursuant to the UK Companies Act 2006.
During 2012 Unilever Group companies purchased 37,894 NV ordinary shares, each with a nominal value of 0.16 for 1 million.
This represents 0.002% of the called-up share capital of NV.
Analysis of shareholding During 2012 Unilever Group companies purchased 10 NV 6% cumulative preference shares and 16 NV 7% cumulative preference shares each with a nominal value of 428.57 for Significant shareholders of NV 23,100.
The repurchase was undertaken under the public cash As far as Unilever is aware, the only holders of more than offer for all outstanding 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares 5% as referred to in the Act on Financial Supervision in the as announced on 19 October 2011.
Netherlands in the NV share capital apart from the Foundation Unilever NV Trust Office, see page 52, and shares held in treasury No PLC ordinary shares were purchased by Unilever Group by NV, see page 54, are ING Groep N. V. ING and ASR Nederland companies during 2012.
The voting rights of such shareholders are the same as forother holders of the class of share indicated.
The two shareholders have each notified the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets AFM of their holdings.
Detailed below are the interests in NV shares provided to NV by ING and ASR in the second half of 2012.
All interests are mainly held in cumulative preference shares.
Total number % of issued Nominal value Class of shares of shares capital of shares ING Ordinary shares 3,920,989 0.23 627,358 7% Cumulative preference shares 20,665 71.26 8,856,399 6% Cumulative preference shares 74,088 46.0 31,751,894 ASR Ordinary shares 2,913,322 0.17 466,132 6% Cumulative preference shares 46,000 28.56 19,714,220 Between 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2012, ING and ASR have held more than 5% in the share capital of NV.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance 55
