REPORT OF THE NOMINATING AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE Role of the Committee COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee formerly the Nomination Committee comprises three Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
ATTENDANCE It is chaired by Paul Walsh.
The other members are Ann Fudge, Kees Storm and Michael Treschow.
The Group Secretary acts Paul Walsh 6 6 as secretary to the Committee.
Chairman of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee The Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board and drawing up selection criteria, ongoing succession planning Ann Fudge 6 6 and appointment procedures.
Executive and Non-Executive Kees Storm 6 6 Directors offer themselves for election each year at the Annual Michael Treschow 6 6 General Meetings.
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for recommending candidates for nomination as Executive Directors including the Chief Executive This table shows the attendance of Directors at Committee meetings for the year ended 31 December 2012.
If Directors are unable to attend Officer and Non-Executive Directors each year based on the a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda process of evaluations referred to below.
After Directors have items with the Committee Chairman.
Attendance is expressed as the been appointed by shareholders the Committee recommends number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to attend.
to the Boards candidates for election as Chairman and ViceChairman Senior Independent Director.
During the year the Committee also consulted with the Chief Executive Officer on the selection criteria and appointment procedures for senior HIGHLIGHTS OF 2012 management.
It also keeps oversight of all matters relating to corporate governance, bringing any issues to the attention of the Boards.
The Committees Terms of Reference are contained in The Governance of Unilever and are also available on our Recommendation to the Boards of three website at www.
potential new Non-Executive Directors Focused on Board and Committee succession Process for the appointment of Directors Unilever has formal procedures for the evaluation of the Boards, Board and Committee performance the Board Committees and the individual Directors.
The Chairman, evaluation process in conjunction with the Vice-Chairman Senior Independent Renaming of Board Committees and review Director, leads the process whereby the Boards assess their own of terms of reference performance as well as interviews between the Chairman and each of the Directors to discuss individual performance.
The results of Reviewed relevant legislative and corporate the evaluations are provided to the Committee when it discusses governance changes the nominations for re-election of Directors.
Reviewed relevant recommendations on diversity Where a vacancy arises on the Boards, the Committee may seek the services of specialist recruitment firms and other external Response to UK Executive Remuneration experts to assist in finding individuals with the appropriate skills Consultations and expertise.
The Committee reviews candidates presented Revised standard terms of appointment by the recruitment firm, or recommended by Directors and for Non-Executive Directors members of the Unilever Leadership Executive, and all members of the Committee are involved in the interview process before making their recommendations to the full Boards for approval.
PRIORITIES FOR 2013 In nominating Directors, the Committee follows the agreed Board profile of potential Non-Executive Directors, which takes into account the roles of Non-Executive Directors set out in the Dutch and UK Corporate Governance Codes.
The Board profile, contained Continued focus on Board and in The Governance of Unilever which can be found on our website Committee succession at www.
com investorrelations corp governance, includes Review induction arrangements for new that the Boards should comprise a majority of Non-Executive Directors who should be independent of Unilever and free from Non-Executive Directors any conflicts of interest.
With respect to composition and qualities of the Boards, they should be in keeping with the size of Unilever, its portfolio, culture and geographical spread and its status as a listed company, with the objective pursued by the Boards having a variety of age, gender, expertise, social background and nationality and, wherever possible, the Boards should reflect Unilevers consumer base and take into account the footprint and strategy of the Group.
The Board profile is set out opposite.
The Committee also this year set out a profile for Non-Executive Directors appointed as future members of the Audit Committee.
This includes experience with financial administration, accounting policies, internal control and risk management of multinationals with share 60 Report of the Directors Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION listings and up-to-date knowledge of financial regulations, perhaps The Committee revised the standard terms of appointment through having been a CFO.
It now contains provisions to promote the success of the company in accordance with the It is recognised that Executive Directors may be invited to become latest requirements of UK and Dutch company law and best a Non-Executive Director of another company and that such an practice guidelines and updated language on tenure of appointment, subject to the approval of the Chairman and where appointment, termination and fees.
As at the date of the 2013 relevant the Chief Executive Officer, may broaden the knowledge AGMs, all reappointed Non-Executive Directors will sign up and experience to the benefit of the Group see page 42 for details to the revised terms of appointment.
In May 2012 Jean-Marc Hut was appointed as a non-executive director of Delta Topco Limited, a directorship For our internal board evaluation this year, Unilever used Thinking which the Chairman approved because it would further benefit Board, the web-based governance self-assessment service from the Boards knowledge and experience.
This provided an added external perspective when considering our approach and Independent Audit challenged Activities of the Committee during the year us on the questions used and helped us to analyse the results.
The Committee met six times in 2012.
All Committee members Further information on this evaluation can be found on pages 47 attended the meetings they were eligible to attend.
Other and 48, the results of which were discussed at the December 2012 attendees at Committee meetings or part thereof were the Chief Board Meetings.
During 2012 the Chairman followed-up with the Executive Officer, the Chief HR Officer and the Group Secretary.
external consultant who carried out our 2011 Board evaluation, on the recommendations from the evaluation, and the conclusions The Committee proposed the nomination of all Directors offering were that the actions identified had been progressed efficiently.
themselves for re-election at the 2012 AGMs in May 2012.
The Boards evaluated the performance of the Committee and the Following recommendations from the Committee, it was Committee carried out a self-assessment of its performance, and announced in December 2012 that the Boards will propose to each has concluded the Committee is performing effectively.
shareholders the nominations of Laura Cha, Mary Ma and John Rishton as Non-Executive Directors at the 2013 AGMs.
These three candidates were chosen because they are all distinguished in their fields.
They will bring knowledge and understanding Paul Walsh of emerging markets, a prime driver of Unilevers growth, Chairman of the Nominating and Corporate and further strengthen the financial expertise of the Boards, Governance Committee which will add considerably to the business.
In making these Ann Fudge appointments the Nominating and Corporate Governance Kees Storm Committee was supported by an independent executive search Michael Treschow firm, Russell Reynolds Associates, chosen by the Committee and which had been engaged to identify suitable candidates for the roles required.
The Committee has approved an extensive Profile of Unilevers Boards of Directors induction programme for the three candidates which involves meeting with all members of the ULE and other relevant senior Desired expertise and experience managers to obtain a thorough understanding of the business.
In view of Unilevers objectives and activities, it is important that the Boards have sufficient financial literacy, have at least The Committee undertook a review of the terms of reference of one financial expert and are composed in such a way that the the Board Committees with a view to changing the names and following expertise and experience are present in one or scope of the current Committees, with reference to Dutch, UK more of its members: and US best practice, whilst ensuring compliance with respective Executive management experience and knowledge of guidelines.
The changes were approved by the Board and as a corporate governance issues at main board level with result the Committee will now be called the Nominating and a company comparable in size and international spread Corporate Governance Committee.
of activities with multiple stock exchange listings: Understanding of human resources and remuneration The Board recognises the benefits of diversity throughout the in large international companies: Group, including gender balance.
The Committee reviewed and Experience with financial administration, accounting considered relevant recommendations on diversity and is pleased policies and internal control: that we already have 25% female representation on the Boards Risk management of multinationals with share listings: and that two female Non-Executive Directors are nominated for Understanding of the markets where Unilever is active: election at the 2013 AGMs.
However, Unilever feels that gender Experience in and understanding of the fast moving is only one part of diversity, and Unilever Directors will continue consumer goods FMCG market: to be selected on the basis of their wide-ranging experience, Knowledge of marketing and commercial expertise: backgrounds, skills, knowledge and insight.
Awareness of corporate social responsibility issues: and Experience with R&D in those fields where Unilever The Committee reviewed and discussed the proposals for is active.
executive directors sitting on remuneration committees.
The Committee ensured that this was included in the ongoing Profile debate through the CBI employers association and through This profile guides the Nominating and Corporate the General Counsel 100 network.
The Committee also discussed Governance Committee and the Boards on the occasion and approved a response submitted by the Chairman to the UK of the nomination of Directors.
It is reviewed and updated Department of Business, Innovation and Skills BIS consultation by the Boards periodically.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance 61
