Directors report Corporate governance statement Nick Prest CBE, Chairman Introduction I am pleased to introduce the 2012 Corporate Governance statement.
The Company is committed to the principles of Corporate Governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code provided by the Financial Reporting Council and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year and to the date of this report.
Further explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out below and, in connection with Directors remuneration, in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 36 to 43.
The Board aims that once per year a Board meeting will be Composition of the Board 4{Z4# During the year the Board comprised the Chairman, three During 2011 12, the September Board meeting was held in X6 $5: Paris, France.
6 $46 4|z4 # In addition, the Board holds a full day strategy meeting every year which is generally held at an off-site location at which As announced on 26 April 2012, Nick Prest indicated that he wished 6 4 4j 8{: %&%#M team make presentations covering progress against current effect from 1 May 2012 Philip Aiken has been appointed as Deputy strategy and objectives and ideas for future investment.
Chairman and, subject to election by shareholders, will succeed Nick Prest as Chairman after the Annual General Meeting.
Further The Board delegates the day to day responsibility for details of the process for the appointment of Mr Aiken are {6 # contained in the Nominations Committee report below.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors Brief biographical details of all Board members are set out on 4#j pages 28 and 29.
The membership of all Board Committees are distributed by the Company Secretary to all Directors is set out on pages 34 and 35. usually four working days in advance of Board and Committee meetings.
Operation of the Board A monthly reporting pack containing management accounts J6 46 Secretary, ensures that the Board functions effectively and has distributed to the Board on a monthly basis.
Key aspects of these processes are: Meetings were held between the Chairman and the X6 J The AVEVA Group Board meets regularly in combination with the 6 J Board of AVEVA Solutions Limited, the main operating company as necessary.
in the Group which owns all of the Groups trading subsidiaries.
The AVEVA Solutions Limited Board includes as members the The Chairman ensures that the Directors take independent CTO and Head of Engineering & Design and the COO and Head professional advice where they judge it necessary to discharge of Enterprise Solutions as well as all the members of the Group {Z Board.
This ensures that the AVEVA Group Board is well informed appropriate circumstances.
All members of the Board have on technical and market factors driving the Groups performance access to the advice of the Company Secretary.
# X6 6 The Board met eleven times during the year.
These meetings, encouraged annually to undertake training in furtherance together with any Committee meetings, are generally held at 4 # {Z}z4U The attendance of individual Directors at Board meetings and # Committee meetings during the year is set out in the table opposite.
30 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2012 Corporate governance Find out more www.
com investors Independence of Non-Executive Directors and Balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors segregation ofduties The Board has considered the independence of the Chairman Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors and believes that all are Non-Executive currently independent of management and free from any Directors material business or other relationships that could materially Chairman interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Their biographies on pages 28 and 29 demonstrate a range 4 4 judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct which is vital to the Group.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are distinct and the division of responsibility between these roles has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the effectiveness of the Board and ensuring that it meets its obligations and responsibilities.
The Chief Executive is responsible to the Board for the day to day management of the business, leadership of the executive team and execution of the Groups strategic and operating plans.
Length of tenure Matters reserved for the Board The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management 03 years 4{#44 36 years reserved for the Boards decision that covers key areas of the Groups affairs, which include: 6 years overall responsibility for the strategy of the Group: corporate governance: review of trading performance and forecasts: risk management: board membership: communications with shareholders: approval of major transactions, including mergers and acquisitions: and 4 and capital expenditure budgets.
Treasury Risk Audit Remuneration Nominations Management Board Committee Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings Meetings held 11 4 5 2 2 Meetings attended Nick Prest 11 5 2 Jonathan Brooks 11 4 5 2 2 Philip Dayer 11 4 5 2 Herv Couturier 8 3 Richard Longdon 11 James Kidd 11 2 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2012 31 Directors report Corporate governance statement continued Group structure The Executive Board Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Richard Longdon James Kidd CTO and Head Executive Executive Executive COO and Head of VicePresident ofEngineering & VicePresident VicePresident Enterprise Solutions Business Strategy Global Sales Human Resources Design Systems Derek Middlemas Hilary Wright Hans Van der Drift Mat Truche-Gordon Dave Wheeldon an annual budget process which is reviewed, monitored Internal control and risk management j The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for monitoring its effectiveness.
However, 6 jJ such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the managers and product development managers to discuss risk of failure and by its very nature can only provide reasonable actual performance against forecast, budget and prior years.
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The operating results are reported on a monthly basis to the Board and compared to the budget and the latest forecast The Board has established a continuous process for identifying, {4# The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups maintenance of insurance cover to insure all major risk areas internal controls, which have been in place from the start of of the Group based on the scale of the risk and availability the year to the date of approval of this report, and believes 4 # that it is in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Boards monitoring covers all material controls, including The key elements of the system of internal controls JXJ currently include: risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports 4 46 j 4 JJ 4{Z# regular basis and are responsible for the operational strategy, 4 #j J carries out visits to the Groups subsidiaries and receives of risks and communication and application of the Groups presentations on their operations.
Where appropriate, matters are j j44 the purpose of this annual report.
This involved reviewing j46 j the reports from a risk assessment workshop involving J4 6 j4 from Product Development, Sales and Finance Legal.
The workshop was conducted in January 2012 and was 4 J facilitated by a third party.
This assessment considered JJ: 4 4 controls, organisation structure, Group policies, segregation the Company to successfully carry out the key business 4 strategies of the Group.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
32 32 A AVEV VEVA Group plc A Group plc Annual report 2012 Annual report 2012 Corporate governance Performance evaluation Dialogue with institutional shareholders {Yj Communication with shareholders is given high priority by the undertakes a formal annual evaluation of its own performance and j#46 4|z4 that of its Committees and individual Directors and that at least meetings with representatives of institutional shareholders and hold 4# J4 of the interim and full year results, but also at other times during The evaluation is designed to determine whether the Board the year as necessary.
Senior managers from Product Development, continues to be capable of providing the high level judgement Business Strategy and Finance also attended analyst and YJjJ 4 shareholder meetings during the year.
All of these meetings seek to up to date with the business and its goals and understand the build a mutual understanding of objectives with major shareholders #| HZ by discussing long-term strategy and obtaining feedback.
The Board 8{:Jj also receives formal feedback from analysts and institutional a high level review of its effectiveness as part of its deliberations shareholders through the Companys public relations adviser and 4#: #j4?
agreed that it would conduct a more formal and detailed review 6 X6 444%& consider any matter raised by shareholders and to enable all Chairman has been appointed.
Directors to understand shareholder views.
In addition, during 2011, As part of the Board review process the performance of the the Group consulted with shareholders in respect of proposals for Chairman was assessed by the Senior Independent Director 46 #5: 4 X6 # X6 JH J if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels 4J46 4|z44 Indemnities to Directors to resolve or if such contact would be inappropriate.
The Chairman, In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, 5: X6 4 Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company to the dialogue with shareholders at any time and attend together with 4 4j 8{:J result of the performance of their duties in their capacity as but are not routinely involved in investor relations or shareholder Directors to the Company.
The indemnity would not provide communications.
Corporate information is also available on the Companys website, www.
The Company has maintained Z4Z the year.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting The Board seeks to use the Annual General Meeting to communicate with investors and all shareholders are encouraged to participate.
The Policy on appointment and reappointment Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and the Treasury In accordance with the Articles of Association, all Directors Risk Management Committees will be available at the Annual General Y4X : Y# at least every three years by rotation and also following their appointment.
In addition, as in the prior year and in accordance with Corporate Governance best practice, all of the remaining Share capital structure Board members are offering themselves for re-election at the Further information on the share capital structure of the Annual General Meeting.
Company is contained on pages 44 and 45. zJ 4 together with details of their duties in the letter of appointment.
All Directors undergo an induction as soon as practical following their appointment.
As part of the induction process, Directors are provided with background information on the Group and attend the {ZY4 from senior management.
In addition, where appropriate, meetings are also arranged with the Groups advisers.
X6 44 # 44 X6 4 Z4 normal business hours and will be available for inspection on the day of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2012 33 Directors report Corporate governance statement continued Committees of the Board The Board has four Committees: Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Treasury Risk Management.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the duties of the Committees are set out in formal terms of reference.
They are available on request from L!# Companys website at www.
Controls in place to ensure this include monitoring of the Audit Committee independence and effectiveness of the audit, implementing Committee Chairman: Jonathan Brooks 4 Committee members: Philip Dayer non-audit services, and a review of the scope of the audit Herv Couturier 444 # The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and The Audit Committee monitors fees paid to the auditor for 4J non-audit work and delegates the authority for approval of controls.
It tests and challenges these areas in conjunction 4|z44 with management and the auditor as appropriate.
The Audit 4# Committee met four times during the year.
4X 4 44{J The Chairman of the Committee is deemed by the Board 4Y #} #8 X Chartered Management Accountant and has held a number Y 4# prior approval from the Audit Committee.
4|z4 {4 representatives from the auditor to attend meetings as 4 appropriate to the business being considered.
engagements to ensure that the independence of the The Committee also meets with the auditor without any auditor is not compromised.
4 # 8 4 8 4 statement of independence is received from the auditor statements of the Group and the Committee members as #j8 44j that the independence of the auditor has been maintained.
{ 8 4X4 4 # ?# There is a formal whistle-blowing policy which has 444 been communicated to employees.
This policy provides reporting and internal controls, compliance with legal information on the process to follow in the event that YJU any employee feels it is appropriate to make a disclosure.
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services 8 Authority and also reviews any proposed change in accounting Y4 policies and any recommendations from the Groups auditor {4 Y proportionate investigations.
4{Z4# The Board and the Audit Committee have considered the 5Y J8 Y4J was held to review the results of the audit, which was the Groups relative size, do not consider one necessary attended by all members.
at this point but will continue to monitor this annually.
During the year the Audit Committee received reports from The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment management on various aspects of the Groups operations 4 4 and internal controls together with recommendations and non-audit work and discusses the nature, scope and for improvements.
4 # The Committee keeps under review the cost effectiveness ?
4 # 34 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2012 Corporate governance Nominations Committee Treasury Risk Management Committee TRMC Committee Chairman: Nick Prest Committee Chairman: Philip Dayer Committee members: Jonathan Brooks Committee members: Jonathan Brooks Philip Dayer James Kidd The activities of the Nominations Committee include nomination, The TRMC was formed to oversee the Groups treasury function 4 X6 6 given the increasing importance of managing the Groups Directors, succession planning and the composition of the treasury activities and associated risks.
In addition to the above Board, particularly in relation to the diversity of background, members, the Head of Finance and Group Treasurer are also # invited to attend the meetings.
The TRMC reviews the Groups Y#: 4X# 4 46 to the business being considered.
credit risk which includes monitoring the Groups X In late 2011 Nick Prest communicated his decision to retire from the Board in 2012, subject to a suitable succession being Y arranged.
The Nominations Committee met under Nick Prests structure in the Group.
Chairmanship and with the participation of the CEO to consider 4{ an appropriate process for choosing a successor.
A committee %3# was formed to manage the process, chaired by Jonathan Brooks.
8 During the year the TRMC met twice to discuss the above 4 matters and provided a report to the Board after each meeting.
Y J 4#XJ J by the Committee and met separately with the CEO.
As a result the Nominations Committee recommended the appointment of Philip Aiken to the Board, initially as Deputy Chairman then becoming Chairman, subject to shareholder approval, after the AGM in July 2012.
Upon his appointment, Philip Aiken was considered to be independent.
Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman: Philip Dayer Committee members: Nick Prest Jonathan Brooks The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations j{Z 46 management remuneration and determines the individual remuneration packages on behalf of the Board for the 6 4{# 46 J 46 Z being discussed.
The Committee has access to professional advice, both inside and outside the Company, in the furtherance of its duties.
During the prior year the Committee asked Deloitte LLP for advice on 4 X6 J6 senior management remuneration.
The Directors remuneration report sets out in more detail the Remuneration Committees 6 # AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2012 35
