62 Corporate Governance Report Dear Shareholder, Our Governance Philosophy How we ensure the Board provides effective leadership is a combination of many factors.
Good leadership stems from having the right people on the Board, with clear lines of responsibility, sound Board processes with access to comprehensive information on which to base decisions.
I believe one of our strengths is the ability to have open and frank debate about the issues put to us and the challenges we face.
We are proud of our experienced Board members and have the support of an excellent management team.
However, we are not complacent and use the annual performance evaluation process and feedback from stakeholders to implement improvements to our way of operating.
Anil Agarwal Our Governance Year Chairman The focus by regulators, government and investors on governance issues and how companies and Boards conduct themselves rightly continued during the year.
Several key developments in particular have received our attention.
This was the first full year that the new UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 Code applied to Highlights Vedanta, the publication of the Davies Report Women on Boards, the introduction of the UK Bribery Act and the Review of corporate governance continued spotlight on executive remuneration.
How we addressed these issues is set out below.
polices and procedures Debate on Board composition UK Corporate Governance Code Whilst we already complied with nearly all of the new 2010 and diversity Codes provisions we took the opportunity to review certain Roll out of anti-bribery programme of our governance policies and practices to ensure they meet best practice standards.
Davies Report We continued our internal debate on Board composition set in the context of the aim to have female representation on our Board.
Whilst we operate in traditionally male orientated industries and cultures, we have taken steps to encourage the recruitment and career progression of women professionals throughout our Group.
As Chairman of the Nominations Committee, I personally conducted workshops covering different sections of the work force to ascertain and aid empowerment of women in our Group.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 63 Anti-bribery Programme The UK Corporate Governance Code As a company with a premium listing on the London Stock implemented across the Group.
Going forward it will be Exchange, Vedanta is subject to the UK Corporate the remit of the Audit Committee to ensure that our Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting anti-bribery and corruption programmes are robust.
The 2010 Code is available from the Financial Reporting Councils website, The Year Ahead www.
The Code is centred around the themes of The Board has set the following objectives for the leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and coming year: relations with shareholders.
This Corporate Governance Strategy Report provides details of our approach to governance, our Continue to develop and review Vedantas strategic policies, processes and structures and explains how we direction and make amendments as appropriate.
have complied with the main principles of the 2010 Code.
Succession planning We are aware of the tenure of our Non-Executive Disclosures on share capital and related matters as required Directors, make-up of the Board and input from by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR7.2.
6 may shareholders on Board composition.
This is an issue be found in the Directors Report.
that has been continuously debated and will be addressed during the year.
Compliance With the 2010 Code Remuneration With the exception of the following matters, the Company As a result of the continued debate around executive has throughout the year ended 31 March 2012, fully remuneration there is likely to be legislation governing complied with all of the provisions of the 2010 Code: how remuneration is set and approved.
In any event we will seek to have best practice in terms of our Code Provisions A.
3.1 remuneration policies and ensure remuneration is Anil Agarwal was appointed as Executive Chairman in 2005. linked to strategy and Company performance.
Mr Agarwal was the founder of the businesses of Vedanta Risk Resources and steered the phenomenal growth of the Further development of the Boards view of risk Group since its inception in 1976 including the otation of tolerance and risk appetite.
Vedanta Resources plc on the London Stock Exchange and Branding promotion to a FTSE 100 company.
This meant that Mr Review of Group-wide branding.
Agarwal did not meet the strict independence criteria as dened in Code Provision B.
1.1 on his appointment in 2005 Lastly, we value contact and input from our because he was previously the Chief Executive and, shareholders throughout the year and also at our through Volcan Investments Ltd Volcan, members of his Annual General Meeting.
Please be assured that we do family have a controlling interest in the Company.
Mr take note of the issues raised which helps to inform Agarwal is pivotal in helping to achieve the strategic future decisions.
objectives of Vedanta through his skills in seeking out value creating acquisitions and projects.
In addition, the fact that he dedicates himself full time to his role of Executive Anil Agarwal Chairman, enables him to balance executive duties with Chairman providing leadership to the Board.
As its Chairman Mr 16 May 2012 Agarwal encourages debate and challenge and sets high ethical standards.
For these reasons the Board is unanimously of the opinion that his continued involvement in an executive capacity is vitally important to the success of the Group.
2.1 Under the Relationship Agreement put in place at the time of Listing, Volcan will be consulted on all appointments to the Board.
The Nominations Committee therefore works collaboratively with Volcan when making appointments to the Board and, to this extent, differs from the process set out in Code Provision B.
2.1 which stipulates that the Nominations Committee should lead the process for Board appointments.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
com 64 Corporate Governance Report continued How does the Board Provide Effective Leadership?
Members of our Board The Board, chaired by Anil Agarwal, currently has six Directors comprising the Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and three independent Non-Executive Directors.
Membership of the Board as at the date of this report and attendance of the Directors at Board meetings for the year are shown below.
Board composition is reviewed regularly by the Nominations Committee.
Number of Name, title Date of appointment Board Meetings attended Executive Directors AK Agarwal Executive Chairman 16 May 2003 8 10 N Agarwal Deputy Executive Chairman 24 November 2004 10 10 MS Mehta Chief Executive 1 October 2008 9 10 Non-Executive Directors N Chandra Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director 18 May 2004 10 10 A Mehta Non-Executive Director 24 November 2004 9 10 ER Macdonald Non-Executive Director 23 March 2005 10 10 Board Culture We believe that ethical and economic values are Board culture has been cited as having played an important interdependent and that the business community part in corporate failures in recent years.
Within Vedanta the must always strive to operate within accepted norms cornerstones of open debate, high ethical standards and established by national and international authorities.
professionalism ensures that the Group can grow and develop within an ethical and professional framework From Vedantas Code of Business Conduct and Ethics which balances risk and entrepreneurship.
Debate Open discussions Consultative processes Encouragement to question Professional approach High ethical standards Different skill sets of Supported by sound governance Board members policies such as the Board VEDANTA BOARD Excellent relationships Charter and Code of Business CULTURE between Board members Conduct and Ethics Entrepreneurial spirit Seeking out new business opportunities and acquisitions Underpinned by strong internal auditing and control systems Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 65 The Role of our Board strategy and objectives, reviewing progress against these objectives and incorporating feedback into its decision making processes.
The Board T The Board receives feedback from The Board sets Oversees Board members Vision Challenges Committees Values Reviews risk Management Strategy Stakeholders Business model It is the role of the Board to promote the success of the Approval of major business acquisitions and disposals: Company with a view to increasing its long-term value.
As Approval of major capital projects: part of their decision making processes the Directors have Review of nature and extent of risks: a responsibility to consider the long-term consequences of Ensuring maintenance of effective systems of internal their decisions, the interests of the Companys employees, control and risk: the need to foster relationships with other stakeholders, the Review and approval of Group policies including those impact of the Companys operations and the environment on health and safety and the Groups Code of Conduct: and the need to maintain high standards of business.
This is Approval of dividend policy achieved by ensuring its governance processes, as described below, are comprehensive and robust.
The Role of our Board Committees Certain of the Boards responsibilities are delegated to What are the Boards Responsibilities?
Board Committees, which operate within dened terms of The Boards responsibilities are set out in a formal schedule reference.
The main Board Committees are the Executive, of matters reserved for its attention.
This schedule of Remuneration, Audit, Nominations, and Sustainability matters has been reviewed in light of the introduction of Committees.
The relationship between the Board, its the 2010 Code to ensure new provisions, such as Committees, Group subsidiaries and information ows are responsibility for risk appetite, were properly reected.
summary the main areas of the Boards remit covers: Setting of Group strategy and objectives: Our Governance Framework Setting of the Groups values and standards: The relationship between the Board, Board Committees Review of performance against strategy, objectives, and subsidiary companies with their individual written business plans and budgets and agreeing corrective responsibilities and the reporting structure as shown below action where necessary: forms the backbone of the governance framework.
Board of Directors Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors, three independent Non-Executive Directors Subsidiary Executive Audit Remuneration Nominations Sustainability Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Company Executive Three Three Executive One NonBoards Chairman independent independent Chairman Executive Deputy Non-Executive Non-Executive Three Director Executive Directors Directors independent One Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director CEO Directors CEO from 12 senior African management operations members Finance Standing Committee Three members comprising at least two Board members and members of senior management Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
com 66 Corporate Governance Report continued All of the committees are authorised to obtain legal or other operational and financial performance of the Groups professional advice as necessary, to secure the attendance subsidiaries, allocates resources in line with delegated of external advisers at their meetings and to seek authorities, develops and reviews the budgets of subsidiary information from any employee of the Company in order companies.
The Executive Committee therefore has a key to perform their duties.
Under the terms of reference of the role in putting the Boards plans and policies into action.
committees only the members of each committee have the The Chief Executive Officer, MS Mehta, keeps the Board right to attend committee meetings.
However, other informed of the Executive Committees activities through Directors or management together with other expert his standing reports made to the Board.
persons may attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
The Secretary to the committees is The Finance Standing Committee enables efficient Deepak Kumar, apart from the Sustainability Committee consideration and approval of routine bank and nancing whose secretary is Tony Henshaw, Chief Sustainability issues and allotment of shares under the Groups LongOfficer.
The full terms of reference of the committees are Term Incentive Plan.
All minutes of the Finance Standing available from the Companys website Committee are reviewed by the Board.
Chairman also reports to the Board on the outcome of Committee meetings at the next subsequent The Executive Committee is comprised of three Board Board meeting.
members and 12 members of senior management whose biographies are given on pages 58 to 61.
The Executive Details of the membership, terms of reference and Committee is responsible for supervising all aspects of the attendance at meetings of the Audit, Remuneration, operational performance of the Group.
It implements Nominations and Sustainability Committee are given in strategic plans formulated by the Board, monitors their respective reports on pages 75 to 91.
What are the Roles of our Board Members?
There is a clear division of responsibility between the functioning of the Board and executive responsibility for running the business.
The Board has an established policy which sets out the key responsibilities of the Executive Chairman, Deputy Executive Chairman, Senior Independent Director and the Chief Executive Officer.
These responsibilities were reviewed during the year to account of the new requirements of the 2010 Code and are summarised below.
Executive Chairmans Role Chief Executive Officers Role As Executive Chairman, Anil Agarwal devotes the majority Mehandra Mehta is the Chief Executive Officer: of his time to the Companys business.
The Chairmans Recommending to the Board annual budgets and other current responsibilities are set out in the delivery of the same biographies on page 58.
There have been no changes to Optimising the Groups assets and management and the Chairmans other commitments during the year: allocation of resources Leading the Board, ensuring its effective functioning Creating and maintaining a sound control environment and setting its agenda Implementation of strategy and Group policies and Upholding the highest standards of integrity and procedures governance practices throughout the Group Supporting the Executive Chairman in effective Facilitating constructive relationships between communication with various stakeholders Directors Providing leadership to the senior management team Review of induction and training needs of the Directors and nurturing the talent pool Development of strategy and objectives for approval by Managing ESG issues in conjunction with the the Board Sustainability Committee Seeking new business opportunities Ensuring communication and dialogue with shareholders and effective use of the AGM Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 67 Deputy Executive Chairmans Role The Senior Independent Directors Role Navin Agarwal is the Deputy Executive Chairman: Naresh Chandra is the Senior Independent Director.
Chairman of the Executive Committee Given the executive nature of the Chairmans position the Supports the Chairman in leadership of the Board Senior Independent Directors position is key in achieving Delivery of Groups strategy in conjunction with a balance between the executive and non-executive the CEO functions: Development of fund raising initiatives To provide a channel of communication between the Global investor relations Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Oversees execution of Greeneld projects To ensure that views of Non-Executive Directors are Overseeing development of top talent throughout given due consideration the Group To provide a point of contact for shareholders who wish to raise concerns which the normal channels of communication through the Chairman and Chief Executive have failed to resolve To act as a sounding board for the Chairman To meet with the Non-Executive Directors at least once a year to appraise the Chairmans performance and on such other occasions as are deemed appropriate The Role of the Non-Executive Directors decision the Nominations Committee considered all of the criteria set out in the 2010 Code in relation to determining a variety of rich experiences in different elds which independence and in addition that both Directors: range from holding senior positions within the Indian Robustly challenge, express views and actively contribute Government, including roles with responsibilities for to Board Meetings: corporate governance, to banking and emerging market Bring differing skill sets and experience to the Board finance.
This enables them to bring independent make up: judgement on issues of strategy, performance and Absent themselves in the event that there are any resources which are vital to the success of the Group.
conicting issues arising from their Directorships with They play a key part in challenging the performance Cairn India of management.
Relationship Agreement Board Balance and Independence At the time of Listing, the Company and Volcan, the With the exception of the Chairman, who is presumed majority shareholder, entered into a relationship agreement under the 2010 Code not to be independent, the to regulate the ongoing relationship between them.
A new Board considers all of the Non-Executive Directors relationship agreement was entered into in December 2011 to be independent.
the Relationship Agreement the terms of which are the same as that entered into on Listing updated for legal and In making its assessment, the Board has considered the fact regulatory requirements where appropriate.
The principal that Aman Mehta and Euan Macdonald previously held purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the senior management positions within subsidiary companies Group is able to carry on business independently of Volcan, of HSBC Holdings plc which acted as the joint global the Agarwal family and their associates.
Under the terms of co-ordinator and book runner when the Company listed in the Relationship Agreement, the Board, and Nominations 2003.
They retired from these roles in 2003 and 2002 Committee will at all times consist of a majority of Directors respectively.
The Board considered that neither Mr Mehta who are independent of Volcan and the Agarwal family.
nor Mr Macdonald had any involvement with the Group Whilst the Remuneration and Audit Committees shall at all prior to their appointment.
The Board therefore remains of times comprise only of Non-Executive Directors, Volcan is the view that they are independent.
entitled to nominate for appointment as Director such number of persons as is one less than the number of The Nominations Committee considers the question of Directors who are independent of Volcan, the Agarwal independence of the Non-Executive Directors prior to family and their associates.
The Board considers these to recommending their annual re-election and particular be adequate safeguards in that Directors who are scrutiny is given to the performance of those Nonindependent of Volcan make up a majority of the Board Executive Directors who have served on the Board for six and Vedantas ability to operate independently of Volcan is years or more.
In 2012 Naresh Chandra and Aman Mehta protected by the Relationship Agreement.
In addition, in will have served on the Board for seven and eight years accordance with Provisions B.
1.2 of the 2010 Code, at least respectively.
In addition both Directors serve on the Board half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprise of Cairn India as Non-Executive Directors.
The Nominations Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to Committee concluded that Messrs Chandra and A Mehta be independent.
continue to be independent in nature.
In reaching this Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
com 68 Corporate Governance Report continued The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing matters whole Board on routine matters as required in order to arising in relation to the Relationship Agreement and facilitate efficient decision making processes.
In addition ad related party transactions on behalf of the Board.
hoc discussions take place between the Directors on a variety of topics throughout the year.
The Chairman and Conicts of Interest the Non-Executive Directors met without the Executive The Board has established a procedure for the disclosure of Directors present during the year.
interests and other related matters in line with published guidance and the Companies Act 2006.
Each Director must The Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, is disclose actual or potential conicts to the Board and any responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, changes are disclosed and noted at each Board meeting.
timely and clear information on all relevant matters in order The Board will authorise potential or actual conicts as to take informed decisions and to discharge its duties.
Directors with a conict will not participate in Directors are provided with regular detailed briengs on the the discussion or voting concerning the matter in question.
Groups business, the markets within which it operates and These procedures have proved to be effective during the the overall economic environment and updates on scal year.
Related party transactions, which include those in policy changes.
The Board also routinely receives before respect of any Director, are disclosed in Note 38 on pages each Board meeting detailed information on business and 160 to 161. financial performance, ongoing projects, fund raising initiatives, activities of the Board Committees and investor How our Board Operates relation updates.
Presentations and verbal updates are also Board Meetings given at Board meetings by the Executive Directors and The Board meets on a regular basis and met formally on senior management as appropriate.
Directors are 10 occasions during the year.
As well as formal meetings, encouraged to challenge and make further enquiries from written resolutions are passed with the approval of the the Executive Directors and senior management.
What the Board Did During the Year The main items of business considered by the Board during the year are summarised below: Area of Responsibility Item Leadership and strategy Review of the Business Plan Strategy review Review and approval of fund raising initiatives Consideration of various projects and bids Review and approval of acquisitions and disposals Approval of Prospectus for Cairn Acquisition Review of future outlook of the Groups businesses Discussions on Group restructuring Approval of dividend Values and corporate governance Reports from the Board Committees Review of the results of performance evaluation of the Board and Committees Implementation of Bribery Act processes and procedures Approval of amended Code of Conduct and values statement Performance Review of Business Performance Reports CEO Reports and production highlights Reports on financial performance Project updates Internal controls and risk Report from the Audit Committee on effectiveness of internal controls and risks Project capex approvals Review of risk policy risk matrix Relations with shareholders Regular Investment Relations updates Performance of Vedanta shares Review of largest institutional shareholders Investor feedback on proposed restructuring Annual General Meeting arrangements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 69 Area of Responsibility Item Reporting Review and approval of Annual Report and Accounts and Preliminary Announcement Review and approval of half year report Sustainability Briengs on sustainability issues including implementation of Scott Wilson report, meetings with investors and NGOs Discussions on HSE performance reviews How are Appointments to the Board Made?
Development and Training of our Directors Appropriate induction is provided to all Directors on planning and making recommendations concerning appointment to the Board and programmes of continuing candidates for appointments to the Board.
Under the terms professional development are arranged as required, taking of the Relationship Agreement entered into with Volcan as into consideration the individual qualications and the major shareholder, Volcan will be consulted by the experience of the Director.
In addition Directors have Nominations Committee on appointments to the Board.
access to the Companys professional advisers whom they The selection process will entail preparing a job description can consult where they nd it necessary in order to better for the role, benchmarking and interviews with a selection discharge their duties.
External search agencies will also be used where this is felt to be appropriate and adds value to the During the year, the Directors received legal and regulatory process.
It is part of the Nominations Committee remit to updates.
In particular this year a full brieng was given on consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, the new UK Corporate Governance Code and the UK based on objective criteria and merit of the candidate.
Directors undertake visits to operations and part of this consideration the Nominations Committee will have discussions with management on an ongoing basis.
consider diversity, including gender, and the benets this can have for a balanced decision making process.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board Our Directors Commitment for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The In respect of the appointment of Non-Executive Directors Company Secretary is also responsible for advising the to the Board, the candidates will be made aware of the time Board through the Chairman on governance matters.
commitment expected of them which will be reected in Under the Companys Articles of Association the their letter of appointment.
Candidates are also required to appointment and removal of the Company Secretary disclose their other time commitments to ensure that they is a matter for the Board as a whole.
have sufficient time to full their role as a Director.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the existing Non-Executive Directors sets out their duties and time commitments and are available on request from the Companys registered office.
There is a policy in place in respect of a full time Executive Director taking on a Non-Executive directorship in a listed company.
The approval of the Chairman must be sought before an Executive Director may take on a Non-Executive directorship outside of the Group.
com 70 Corporate Governance Report continued How are the Board, its Committees and Individual Directors Evaluated?
During the year, the performance of the Board, its main committees and the individual Directors were formally and rigorously evaluated under the direction of the Chairman.
The evaluation was carried out by circulation of a detailed questionnaire concerning the Board, its Committees and the individual Directors performance.
The responses were collated and summarised.
The Chairman spoke individually to all the Directors in respect of the results and the Board also collectively discussed the results.
A summary of the areas reviewed and results of the evaluation are shown below.
Area Assessed Main Comments Action The Board Strong entrepreneurial leadership with Continue active engagement Leadership sound management of risk and human with stakeholders re social Setting strategy and financial resources.
Board process responsibility issues in particular Risk management and provision of information was good Management of resources Review recruitment possibilities Reviewing performance The need to develop relationships in light of Board composition Communication with shareholders with stakeholders was recognised.
Board composition and structure There was also awareness of need to review Board composition Individual Directors Directors were well prepared Chairman to review training Preparation and contributed effectively to development needs Contribution meetings.
A variety of methods Development of knowledge and were used for training skills Contribution to strategy and risk Good strategy and risk management Relationships with Board members discussions were held and Board Training needs relationships were very good Performance of Board Committees Performance of all the Committees Nomination Committee to Performance against the remains effective with the focus on succession planning Committees remit Audit Committee in particular and nurturing top talent receiving excellent comments Sustainability Committee to engage and develop Group wide policy As in previous years, the Non-Executive Directors, led by How do we Ensure Accountability and ManageRisk?
the Senior Independent Director, considered as part of the The Board has a responsibility to ensure that financial evaluation process, the performance of the Chairman and information provided is accurate and balanced as well as provided him with feedback.
ensuring that its activities are properly controlled and risk assessed and monitored.
Vedanta has in place well Re-election of Directors established reporting and management assurance systems The Companys Articles of Association stipulate that all that ensure rigorous standards are maintained.
Directors must submit themselves for election at the annual general meeting following their appointment and thereafter Financial and Business Reporting by rotation at least once every three years.
However, in The Group has a comprehensive financial reporting system, accordance with the 2010 Code it is proposed that all which is reviewed and modied in line with Accounting Directors will stand annually for re-election beginning with Standards.
These procedures ensure that all published the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
Non-Executive Directors financial information is accurate.
Vedantas Financial are only put forward for re-election if, following reporting procedures are based on five main elements: performance evaluation, the Board believes the Directors performance continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 71 Financial information supplied by subsidiary companies The Board has approved the appointment of a Chief Risk and consolidated at central level Officer to further strengthen risk management processes.
Management accounts are prepared on a monthly basis and reviewed by the Executive Committee: In line with best practice, the Board has reviewed the Management accounts are reviewed by the Board at internal control system in place during the year and up to least quarterly: the date of the approval of this report.
The Boards review Performance is monitored against key performance includes the Audit Committees report on the risk matrix, indicators throughout the financial year and forecasts significant risks and actions put in place to mitigate these are updated as appropriate: risks.
This review ensures that the internal control system Annual operational budgets are prepared by each remains effective.
Where weaknesses are identied as operating subsidiary and consolidated into a Group a result of the review, new procedures are put in place Budget which is reviewed and approved by the Board to strengthen controls and these are in turn reviewed Internal audit provides assurance concerning processes at regular intervals.
Every risk has an owner who is and accuracy at each operating company responsible to ensure that controls are put in place in External auditor assurance order to mitigate the risk.
During the course of its review Full year audits and half year review are carried out on of the system of internal control, the Board has not the published financial statements identied nor been advised of any weaknesses or Review by the Audit Committee of: control failure that is significant.
Year-end reporting plans Briengs on legal, tax and accounting issues: The Groups internal audit activity is managed through the Consideration of the financial statements and Management Assurance Services MAS function and is an disclosures in accordance with financial reporting important element of the overall process by which the standards: Board obtains the assurance it requires to ensure that risks Going concern statements with supporting cash ow, are properly identied, evaluated and managed.
The scope liquidity and funding forecasts.
of work, authority and resources of MAS are regularly Review by the Audit Committee and the Board of the reviewed by the Audit Committee and its work is supported preliminary and half year announcements, the annual by the services of leading international accountancy rms report and accounts and any other announcements but specically excluding the Groups external auditors.
The responsibilities of MAS include recommending improvements in the control environment and ensuring The Directors statement of responsibilities for preparing compliance with the Groups philosophy, policies and the accounts may be found on page 97 and the auditors procedures.
The planning of internal audit is approached statement about their reporting responsibilities may be from a risk perspective.
In preparing an internal audit plan, found on page 98.
A statement on the Boards position reference is made to the Groups risk matrix, inputs are regarding the Group as a going concern is contained in sought from senior management, project managers and the Directors Report on page 95.
Audit Committee members and reference is made to past audit experience, financial analysis and the current Risk Management and Internal Control economic and business environment.
It is the Boards responsibility to determine the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic Each of the Groups principal subsidiaries has in place objectives.
The Directors also have overall responsibility for procedures to ensure that sufficient internal controls are ensuring that the Group maintains a robust system of maintained.
These procedures include a monthly meeting internal control to provide them with reasonable assurance of the relevant management committee and quarterly that all information within the business and for external meeting of the audit committee of that subsidiary.
Because of the limitations inherent adverse findings are reported to the Audit Committee.
The in any system of internal control, this system is designed to Audit Committee Chairman on occasions requests MAS to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it look at specic items and in addition asks the external is exposed rather than eliminate risk altogether.
auditors to focus their audit work on a specic area to be Consequently it can only provide reasonable and not reported to him.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an established process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control published by the Financial Reporting Council.
This includes financial, operational and compliance control and risk management, to ensure shareholders interests and the Companys resources are safeguarded.
The process also covers significant risks that may arise from environmental, social and governance matters.
At the operational level specialists are brought in where appropriate to review working practices and recommendations are implemented with the purpose of creating safe working environments.
com 72 Corporate Governance Report continued The responsibilities, processes and information ows for How do we Ensure that the Board is Responsibly ensuring that significant risks are recognised and reported Rewarded?
up to Board level are shown below.
Level and Make-up of Remuneration The Board is sensitive to the need to achieve a balance between attracting and retaining the quality of directors The Board required to run and manage a company of Vedantas size Sets risk appetite and complexity and to avoid excessive pay awards.
In the Reviews significant reported risks Remuneration Committees terms of reference approved by Reviews internal control and risk systems the Board the Remuneration Committee is required to consider and give due regard to the recommendations of the 2010 Code and other guidelines published in respect of the remuneration of directors of listed companies such as that produced by the Association of British Insurers and National Association of Pension Funds.
A significant proportion of the Executive Directors The Audit Committee remuneration is performance related through the annual Reviews effectiveness of internal control risk systems bonus and long-term incentive schemes.
The fees of the and reports to the Board Non-Executive Directors are independently reviewed and Reviews risk matrix significant risks status of risks take into account the time commitments and responsibilities mitigating factors of the role.
Additional fees are paid for acting as Chairman or Considers approves remedial actions where being a member of one of the Board Committees.
appropriate Reviews Action Plans put in place to mitigate risks The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the Reviews significant findings reported by MAS levels of remuneration for the Chairman and Executive Reviews internal audit plans Directors and also monitors the level and structure of Assesses effectiveness of internal audit remuneration for senior management.
This is carried out Reviews whistleblower reports presented to MAS with the assistance of the President Group HR.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is decided by the Board as a whole.
No Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
Further details of remuneration policy, Directors remuneration, bonus, service contracts, shares interests and the activities of the Remuneration Committee Management Assurance Services are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 83 to 91.
MAS Internal Audit Function Plans and carries out internal audits on a continuing How do we Engage with our Shareholders?
basis Communication with our shareholders takes many forms Recommends improvements to the control system and is a continuous process.
We welcomed the introduction Reviews compliance with Group policies and of the Stewardship Code in 2010 to encourage the debate procedures between companies and their shareholders and intend to Prepares risk matrix and Groups significant risks do our part in engaging with our major shareholders.
The for review main channels of communication with the investment Reports to the Audit Committee community are through the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Reviews findings with senior management Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Investigates and takes action on whistleblower cases Vice President, Investor Relations.
The Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are also available as appropriate.
The Directors as a whole keeps abreast of shareholder sentiment through regular detailed investor relations reports made to the Board.
The Head of MAS attends all Executive Committee and Audit Committee meetings of Vedanta.
The MAS team plays a key role in SOX compliance at SIIL and its subsidiaries.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 73 Channels of Communication Full year and half year results announcements Released to the market Chairman, CEO and Chief Financial Officer presentations to institutional shareholders, analysts and the media Production update interim management statements Released quarterly to the market followed by a conference call Annual Report and Accounts Available to all shareholders electronically, including interactively on the Companys website or hard copy on request Press releases Press releases are made to the market and media on key developments throughout the year Meetings with institutional investors, analysts and Part of the investor relations programme initiated either brokers by the Company or analysts and investors and managed at Group level through Ashwin Bajaj Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.
Site visits are organised for Analysts and Brokers for them to understand operation Website A wide range of information on the Company and its operations is available including the annual report and accounts, half yearly results, Sustainability Report, market announcements, press releases, share price and links to subsidiary company websites Annual General Meeting Attended by all of the Directors and members of senior management.
As well as the formal business Shareholders can ask questions and talk to the Directors after the meeting Responses to shareholder and stakeholder There is ongoing dialogue with shareholders and other communications interested parties via email, letter and meetings particularly in relation to sustainability issues.
The Chief Sustainability Officer meets with shareholder groups every quarter physically or via teleconferencing The Board has adopted a communications policy to ensure that other price-sensitive information is announced to the market in a timely and considered manner.
com 74 Corporate Governance Report continued An analysis of the Companys shareholder base as at 31 March 2012 is shown below.
Percentage of shares held by shareholder type Percentage of shareholders by country 62% Management and Directors 54% UK Europe 37% Institutional and retail investors 43% India 1% Private investors 2% Africa 1% Other With over 60% of shares being held by management or All of the Directors, including the Chairmen of the Audit, Directors the investor relations process focuses on Remuneration, Nominations and Sustainability Committees, institutional and retail categories.
attend the AGM in order to answer shareholders questions.
Our Annual General Meeting Last years AGM was attended by institutional and retail The Board uses the annual general meeting AGM to shareholders.
There was active and robust debate on a communicate with shareholders and welcomes their variety of topics including Company performance and participation and questions.
This years AGM will be held on sustainability issues.
All of the resolutions were passed 28 August 2012.
Further details are given in the Notice of with an average vote in favour of 97%.
Meeting accompanying this Annual Report including the business to be considered at the meeting.
The Notice is The major geographical locations of shareholders are sent out at least 20 working days before the AGM.
Voting at India and Europe.
Therefore the use of channels of the AGM on all resolutions is by poll on a one share, one communication instantly accessible from anywhere in the vote basis and the results of votes cast for, against and world, such as the web, are key communication tools.
abstentions are available on the Groups website following the meeting.
The Board believes that voting by poll allows the views of all shareholders to be taken into account regardless of whether or not they can attend the meeting and shareholders are actively encouraged to register their votes electronically in advance of the meeting Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 75 The Audit Committee Report We are aware of the increasing importance of the Audit Committees role not just in reviewing financial performance but in ensuring robust risk management and control systems are in place to assist the Board assess the potential risks inherent in its strategic plans and objectives.
Pivotal to this role is the operation of our Management Assurance Services function and the information they provide to the Audit Committee.
Another key function of the Committee is to oversee the external audit and ensure that the external auditors relationship with the Company remains independent and objective.
Further details on the external auditors can be found in our report.
In order to carry out our duties effectively we receive high quality and detailed information from our finance function and internal and external auditors which is questioned, debated and challenged by members of A Mehta the Audit Committee.
Chairman, Audit Committee The Audit Committees Year The Audit Committee has had a busy year.
In particular attention has been focused on acquisition activity such as Anglo Zinc assets and Cairn India to ensure they are embedded into the audit and risk assessment processes.
In Highlights addition time has been spent on reviewing steps put into place in light of the UK Bribery Act.
The Bribery Act Embedding of acquisitions into control programme included engaging professional assistance, amending existing policies, putting together a training pack, and risk management systems carrying out awareness sessions for employees and UK Bribery Act roll out of policies implementing new procedures such as a Suppliers Code of Conduct.
In addition an Ethics Committee consisting of the CEOs of all business units has been formed.
The Year Ahead The Audit Committees objectives for the forthcoming year include: Review of changes to risk prole and support the Board debate on risk tolerance and appetite: Review of Audit Committee membership: Continuing to ensure that Cairn India operations are embedded into the Groups financial reporting procedures and risk prole: Monitor progress on implementation of anti-bribery programme and roll out Code of Ethics: Discuss with management the need to carry out a review of the external auditor position in line with developing regulation.
Membership, Meetings and Attendance The Audit Committee consists of the following independent Non-Executive Directors: A Mehta Chairman, Audit Committee Number of meetings attended A Mehta, Chairman 5 5 N Chandra 5 5 ER Macdonald 5 5 Mr Mehta is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
All members have had extensive management experience either in large international organisations or government and are nancially literate.
com 76 Corporate Governance Report continued The Audit Committee Report How our Audit Committee Operates Performance Evaluation of the Audit Committee The Committee meets at least three times a year based on Annual performance evaluation is used to feedback any appropriate times in the financial reporting calendar.
The concerns or improvements to how the Committee Chairman of the Company, Executive Directors, Chief operates.
The evaluation is carried out by detailed Financial Officer, Head of Internal Audit and other members questionnaire of all Board members.
The Audit Committees of the senior management team as invited by the performance in particular received high scores for its work Committee together with the external auditors, regularly and was assessed as carrying out its role effectively.
The Committee meets at least twice during the year with representatives from the external auditors without management being present.
Regular reports are made to the Board of the Committees activities.
The Committees agenda is based on its remit outlined below as appropriate to the stage in the reporting cycle.
All items put to the Audit Committee receive in depth review and questioning.
What are the Responsibilities of the Audit Committee?
The Audit Committees remit falls into four main areas: financial reporting, risk and the internal control environment, and oversight of external and internal audit processes.
The detailed responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in its terms of reference which are available from the Company Secretary.
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: Monitor the integrity of the financial statements, including its annual and half-year results: Review the Groups internal controls and risk management systems and consider the effectiveness of these systems: Make recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment of the external auditor: Review the independence of the external auditors: Develop policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor: Discuss with the external auditor the nature and scope of the audit: Approve the remuneration of the external auditor: Consider any matters arising in respect of the Relationship Agreement and related party transactions Monitor the activities and effectiveness of the internal audit function MAS and consider their reports: Review the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns through its whistleblowing policy: Monitor anti-bribery policies and procedures: and Review reports from subsidiary company audit committees.
The Groups main subsidiaries, a number of which are listed on stock exchanges in India, have their own audit committees in accordance with local corporate governance requirements.
By monitoring their discussions the Audit Committee gains further insights into the quality of financial reporting and internal controls throughout the Group.
Furthermore the internal audit function presents issues arising from the subsidiaries to the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
The external auditor partner, India, regularly attends both the subsidiary and Board Audit Committee meetings.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 77 What the Audit Committee did During the Year Area of Responsibility Topic Financial Reporting Review and approval of Preliminary Announcement, It is one of the Committees key duties to monitor the Annual Report and financial statements integrity of the financial statements.
As part of this process Year End review of significant issues impairment it reviews in detail the preliminary results statements, the review, acquisition of Anglo Zinc Assets and Cairn India Annual Report and accounts and half year report.
The accounting appropriateness of accounting polices used is considered Half year report planning and approval of half year and external audit findings discussed.
Details of financial report reporting procedures in place are given on page 70 of the Discussions on impairment reviews Corporate Governance Report.
Six monthly review of all pending tax issues Review of Audit Committee Report for the Annual Report and Accounts Six monthly review of legal cases to ensure appropriate provisions are made and disclosed Internal Controls and Risk Management Internal audit review, review of control framework, Details of the Companys internal control and risk review of whistleblowing cases, formation of ethics management processes are discussed on pages 71 to 72. committee, review of legal cases The Audit Committee reviews these processes and output Review of Subsidiary Audit Committee reports from the regular review of risks carried out during the year Going concern review of working capital forecasts, by internal audit.
monthly projections, funding requirements Review of risk management programme, risk prole, significant risks, risk matrix and review of resulting action plans Review of 201213 internal audit plan Assessment of the performance of MAS internal audit function Review of Foreign Exchange policy The Audit and External Auditors Consideration of external Audit findings Review of key audit issues Review of materiality gure for the Audit Review of independence of the external Auditor and provision of non-audit services Performance review of the external Auditor Consideration of Audit fee Recommendation on reappointment of the external auditor Review of Management Representation Letter 2012 Audit Plan review Cairn India Audit Plan review Governance Brieng on UK Bribery Act, review of Anti Bribery Act programme Review of Committees Terms of Reference Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
com 78 Corporate Governance Report continued The Audit Committee Report External Auditors All other permitted non-audit services will be reviewed by The Audit Committee is pivotal in monitoring the external the Audit Committee on a bi-annual basis.
audit and the relationship with the external auditor and further information on how this is achieved is set out below.
The Audit Committee receives a report every six months analysing the fees paid for non-audit work.
This report The Audit Plan includes safeguards put into place to ensure that any threats A detailed Audit Plan is prepared by the external Auditors, to the independence of the external auditor are mitigated.
The Deloitte LLP, Deloitte which is reviewed by the Audit majority of non-audit services provided by the external Committee in depth.
The Audit Plan sets out the audit auditor are tax advisory services and corporate finance related scope, key audit risks identied, materiality issues, the client work or transaction related work.
A separate team within team working on the audit and the audit timetable.
The Deloitte LLP is used to carry out non-audit service work which audit scope covers the significant components of the audit is overseen by a separate partner.
An analysis of non-audit and audit plans for each component and location.
Each of fees can be found in Note 10 to the financial statements.
the key audit risks is considered and the external auditors response of how it will investigate these risks.
This year a Performance and Reappointment supplementary audit plan was prepared and reviewed for The overall performance and effectiveness of the auditor is Cairn India as a recent acquisition.
reviewed annually taking into account the views of management.
Feedback is provided on the evaluation to Auditor Independence senior members of Deloitte who are unrelated to the audit.
One of the key tasks of the Audit Committee is to review This activity also forms part of Deloittes own system of the external auditors independence and monitor their quality control.
The performance evaluation was carried out continued effectiveness.
The Audit Committee and the using a detailed questionnaire the results of which were Board place great emphasis on the objectivity of the considered by the Audit Committee.
In addition this year the external auditor.
The current external auditor, Deloitte LLP, Audit Inspection Unit AIU, part of the Financial Reporting have been the Companys auditors since listing in 2003.
The Council, carried out a routine inspection of Vedantas audit rotation of the audit partners responsibilities within Deloitte le.
The AIUs findings are considered by the Audit is required by their professions ethical standards and there Committee as part of the review of the external auditor.
is also rotation of key members within the audit team.
Deloitte are required to rotate the audit partner responsible Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of for the Group audit every five years and the last audit Deloitte and being fully satisfied with the performance of partner rotation was in 2010.
The Audit Partner responsible Deloitte, the Audit Committee has recommended to the for the audit of Indian subsidiaries is being rotated this year.
Board that the existing auditors, Deloitte, be reappointed To ensure effective communication of matters relating to as the Companys auditors and an ordinary resolution to the audit, the Audit Partner and senior manager are present reappoint Deloitte will be proposed at the forthcoming at Audit Committee meetings.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Audit Committees choice A key part of ensuring the independence of the external of auditor.
auditor is to have in place robust policies concerning matters that may affect their independence.
The Company On behalf of the Board has in place policies on: The independence and objectivity of the external auditor Employment of former employees of the external auditor A Mehta Use of the external auditors for non-audit services Chairman, Audit Committee 16 May 2012 These policies are based on the APB Ethical Standards for Auditors and are regularly reviewed to ensure they are in line with best practice.
These controls provide the Audit Committee with confidence that the independence of Deloitte in their audit function will be maintained.
Provision by the External Auditor of Non-audit Services The policy species certain services which the external auditors are prohibited from undertaking in order to safeguard their independence, such as work relating to the financial statements that will ultimately be subject to final audit and the provision of internal audit services.
The policy also identies those services which the external auditor is permitted to deliver to the Group.
These include tax advisory services, and work on mergers, acquisitions and disposals.
Of the permitted services any assignment in excess of US$100,000 may only be awarded to the external auditor with prior approval of the Audit Committee.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 79 Nominations Committee Report The Nominations Committees role within Vedanta is seen as increasingly important.
In reviewing Board composition it ensures that the right mix of skills and independent thought is represented on the Board.
It also has a key role to play in bringing on talent from within the organisation.
The Nominations Committees Year The focus this year has been on issues of diversity, succession planning and Board composition due to the Committees awareness of the tenure of its Non-Executive Directors and publication of the Davies Report concerning representation of women on Boards.
Both the Committee and Board have discussed at length the need for refreshing of the Board.
Plans are well in hand to bring a new NonExecutive Director onto the Board to address these issues.
The Year Ahead Anil Agarwal The Nominations Committee objectives for the coming Chairman, Nominations Committee year are: Finalise the review of Board and Committee membership: Continue diversity drive within the Group: Succession planning for senior management: Plans on how to nurture talent from within Vedanta.
Highlights A Agarwal Extensive debate on Board composition Chairman, Nominations Committee Focus on encouraging diversity throughout the Group Membership, Meetings and Attendance Membership of the Nominations Committee is in line with the requirements of the 2010 Code and is comprised of the following Directors: Number of meetings attended A Agarwal, Chairman 2 2 N Chandra 2 2 ER Macdonald 2 2 A Mehta 2 2 How our Nominations Committee Operates Performance Evaluation of the Nominations Committee The Committee meets at least two times a year.
Other Annual performance evaluation is used to assess how the Executive Directors and members of the senior Nominations Committee is performing and feedback any management team may attend meetings at the invitation of suggested improvements.
The performance of the the Committee as appropriate.
Reports are made to the Nominations Committee was assessed during the year and Board of the Committees activities.
was considered to be effective in all areas of its remit.
com 80 Corporate Governance Report continued Nominations Committee Report What are the Responsibilities of the Nominations Committee?
The responsibilities of the Nominations Committee are set out in its terms of reference which are available from the Company Secretary.
The main responsibilities of the Nominations Committee are to: Review the structure, size and composition of the Board including the skills and experience required of its members and make recommendations to the Board accordingly of adjustments that are deemed necessary: Establish a policy in respect of diversity on the Board and consider Board composition in light of the benets of diversity, including gender: Consider candidates for appointment as either Executive or Non-Executive Directors and plan for succession in particular to the positions of the Board Chairman and Chief Executive: Before an appointment is made prepare a description of the role and capabilities required: In identifying suitable candidates consider the use of open advertising or external advisers to facilitate the search, consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds: Ensure that Non-Executive Directors receive a letter of appointment setting out what is expected from them in terms of time commitment: Recommend to the Board whether to reappoint a Non-Executive Director either at the end of their term of office or when put forward for re-election, having regard to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board.
The Committee will confer with Volcan Investments Limited in this respect under the terms of the Relationship Agreement.
What the Nominations Committee Did During the Year The main areas of activity of the Nominations Committee during the year are summarised below.
Area of Responsibility Item Board Composition and succession planning Discussions of succession planning processes to ensure selection procedures incorporate Davies Report recommendations Approval of Policy on diversity Performance of Directors Consideration of performance of N Chandra and recommendation that he be reappointed as Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director for further one year term Review of A Mehta and N Agarwal performance prior to recommendation to shareholders to re-elect to the Board Governance Review and approval of new Terms of Reference Annual Report Approval of Nominations Committee Report Diversity We announced our aspirations for Board diversity during 12% women.
We are pleased to report that we do have a the year which is to have 25% of women on the Board by number of women in senior positions including in the areas 2015.
However, all appointments will continue to be made of legal, Investor relation and Corporate Finance.
To achieve this target we will ensure that women also constantly improved the women professionals intake candidates are considered routinely as part of the from campuses from 10% to 20% thus ensuring improved recruitment process.
We will also monitor and encourage talent pipeline for senior leadership roles in the future.
the progress of women in senior positions throughout the Group.
On behalf of the Board Vedanta operates within a traditionally male dominated industry.
The current proportion of men to women within A Agarwal the Group is 92% men and 8% women whereas in the Chairman professional population the proportion is 88% men and 16 May 2012 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 81 Sustainability Committee Report The Sustainability Committees Year 201112 The Sustainability Committee met on four occasions in the FY 201112 on the 12 July 2011, 3 October 2011, 18 October 2011 and the 3 February 2012.
The Sustainability Committee approved the Sustainability Model and Framework, 201011 Sustainable Development Report and specically each of the following Policies: HSE amendment, Biodiversity, Water, Energy and Carbon, Supplier and Contractor Management, Social, Human Rights and HIV Aids.
The Sustainability Committee reviewed the investigation report and recommendations for each fatality that occurred in the Group.
The Sustainability Committee oversaw the following Naresh Chandra programmes: Chairman, Sustainability Committee Accident reduction and the prevention of harm to employees and contractors and reviewed the results Reduction in Water use Reduction in Energy and Carbon use Clean Development Mechanism programmes Implementation of the Scott Wilson Report recommendations including approval of the formal Sustainability is one of Vedanta submissions to the lenders.
Waste Management Resources five core values.
It is built on Responsible Stewardship, The Sustainability Committee debated and opined on the follow topics: Stakeholder Engagement and the Medium Term Sustainability Target The need for an ExCo Sustainability Sub-committee Value Added to People.
The Sustainability Committee is adding The Year Ahead We expect the Sustainability Committee to maintain its value to the Group by applying its focus on the above topics and to approve the medium term Sustainability targets, and Stakeholder Engagement Plan.
collective mind to the development, Further, we expect to oversee human rights due diligence, while conrming our methodology for materiality, implementation and assurance of developing our sustainability risk prole and beginning a Sustainability Management Systems programme of supply chain audits.
Naresh Chandra Chairman, Sustainability Committee Membership, Meetings and Attendance Membership of the Sustainability Committee and attendance at meetings is shown below.
Number of meetings attended N Chandra, Chairman 4 4 MS Mehta 4 4 J Janakaraj 4 4 T Henshaw Secretary 4 4 All invited CEOs or their representatives attended the meetings.
com 82 Corporate Governance Report continued Sustainability Committee Report Performance Evaluation of the Sustainability Committee Annual performance evaluation is used to assess how the Sustainability Committee is performing and feedback any suggested improvements.
The performance of the Sustainability Committee was assessed during the year and was considered to be effective in all areas of its remit.
What are the Responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee?
The responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee are set out in its terms of reference which are available at www.
html The main responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee are: To recommend to the Board Group Sustainability policies, clearly setting out the commitments of the Group to manage matters of Sustainable Development effectively.
To advise the Board to enable it to discharge its responsibilities, having regard to the law and the expected international standards of governance.
To outline initiatives required to institutionalise a Sustainability culture through involvement of the employees at all levels.
To review and report to the Board the performance of the Group and its Group companies with respect to the implementation of a Sustainability Management System.
What the Sustainability Committee Did During the Year The main areas of activity of the Sustainability Committee during the year are summarised below.
Area of Responsibility Item Health and Safety Unsafe condition elimination programme Review of accident root causes and action plans to eliminate fatalities and harm to employees and contractors Behavioural safety for all line management.
Safety KPIs and medium-term targets Review of the Vedanta near miss reporting system Emergency planning Environment Review of environmental incidents Environment KPIs and medium-term targets Review of waste utilisation plans and initiatives Review of environmental footprints Strategy for water management Strategy for energy consumption and climate change Clean development mechanism programmes System Development and Performance Reporting Approval of Vedanta Sustainability Report 201011 Oversaw the implementation of the recommendations of the Scott Wilson Report Approval of Scott Wilson update report to the lenders Approval of Vedanta sustainability policies On behalf of the Board Naresh Chandra Chairman 16 May 2012 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
