Corporate governance report Following the demerger in December 2012, the Board of Vesuvius plc has established a sound corporate governance structure for the new stand-alone business.
JOHN MCDONOUGH CBE, CHAIRMAN INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROLS The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a keen focus on DEAR SHAREHOLDER risk.
Its annual review for 2012 of the effectiveness of the Groups Maintaining good governance is a key priority for Vesuvius and much system of risk management and internal control covered the whole of of the framework we have adopted builds on the solid structure that the year, including a review of the results of the work of the Internal Cookson Group plc had set out in this regard prior to the demerger.
Audit function and the senior managements self-certification exercise.
The Corporate Governance Report provides a detailed review of the This process required senior financial and operational management Companys approach and the systems we have put in place.
throughout the Group to certify the effectiveness of internal controls within the businesses for which they are responsible, together with BOARD their compliance throughout the whole year with the Groups and As reported in my Chairmans statement we have built a strong Board Cooksons, as appropriate policies and procedures.
We are delighted to have welcomed two women onto the Board, Nelda Connors and Jane Hinkley.
We continue to REMUNERATION look at diversity in its broadest sense: this is reflected in the range of In setting the remuneration policy and structure for the new Group, backgrounds and experience of our Board members.
We believe that it is we were mindful of the current environment around executive important to get the right balance of independence, skills and knowledge, remuneration and the need to clearly link pay to the delivery of both on the Board and across our businesses.
All our Board appointments performance.
We set out more details on our approach in our have been, and will continue to be, made on merit to ensure that at all Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 92. times we have the most effective team to lead the Company in delivering long-term shareholder value.
Yours sincerely As Chairman, I recognise my role in ensuring that the Company is led by an effective Board.
Key to this is not only the calibre of the Directors JOHN McDONOUGH CBE appointed, but also ensuring they attain an appropriate understanding Chairman of the business, continue to refresh their skills and knowledge and 28 March 2013 are able to devote sufficient time to their roles.
It is also important that there be clear definition and structure of the Boards ongoing responsibilities and priorities.
It is critical that open and transparent debate is encouraged, and that the Non-executive Directors work effectively with the management team to achieve long-term success.
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 64 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Governance Contents 66 LEADERSHIP 70 ACCOUNTABILITY The Board The Audit Committee The Chairman and the Chief Executive Financial and Business Reporting The Non-Executive Directors Risk Management and Internal Control The Senior Independent Director Reviewing the Effectiveness of Internal Controls The Company Secretary Executive Compensation and Risk Board Meetings Board Committees 71 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS 68 EFFECTIVENESS 72 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Board Composition Appointments to the Board 75 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Time Commitment of the Chairman and Non-executive Directors 76 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Induction and Training Information and Support 93 DIRECTORS REPORT Performance Evaluation Election of Directors Directors Indemnities Directors Conflicts of Interest www.
com Stock Code: VSVS 65 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Corporate governance report continued The Board of Vesuvius plc the Company, is responsible for the THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Groups system of corporate governance and is committed to maintaining The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of skills and experience high standards.
In preparation for the Companys listing following the to the Board.
They represent a strong, independent element on the demerger of Cookson Group, a full review of corporate governance Board and are well-placed to constructively challenge and support arrangements was undertaken.
These arrangements were summarised management.
They help to shape the Companys strategy, scrutinising in the prospectus relating to the Companys listing published on the performance of management in meeting the Companys objectives 1 November 2012.
This report describes the Companys corporate and monitor the reporting of performance.
Their role is also to satisfy governance structure and explains how Vesuvius plc has applied the themselves with regard to the integrity of the Groups financial main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the information and to ensure that the Groups financial controls and risk Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 the Code since the date of management systems are robust and defensible.
As members of the its incorporation 17 September 2012 to 31 December 2012.
The report Remuneration Committee, the independent Non-executive Directors also explains how the Company plans to apply the main principles of the determine the appropriate level of remuneration for the Executive Code going forward.
Directors, and as members of the Nominations Committee the Nonexecutive Directors play a pivotal role in Board succession planning and For the period from incorporation to listing on 17 December 2012, the the appointment of new Executive Directors.
Company did not comply with the provisions of the Code.
The Board believes that, for the period from 17 December to 31 December 2012, THE SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR with the exception of completing the Directors induction and undertaking The Board nominates one of the Non-executive Directors to act as a Board evaluation, which were not possible given the time available, Senior Independent Director and provide an alternative contact at Board Vesuvius plc has complied with the relevant provisions of the Code.
level, other than the Chairman, to whom shareholder matters can be addressed.
The Senior Independent Director also acts as a sounding board LEADERSHIP for the Chairman and, should it be required, can act as an intermediary THE BOARD for the concerns of other Non-executive Directors.
He is responsible for Ultimate responsibility for the management of the Group rests with the undertaking the annual evaluation of the Chairmans performance and for Board of Directors.
The Board focuses primarily upon strategic and policy leading the recruitment process for a new Chairman, when required.
issues and is responsible for the Groups long-term success.
It approves the Groups strategy, oversees the allocation of resources and monitors THE COMPANY SECRETARY the performance of the Group in pursuit of this, all within the context of The Company Secretary supports the Chairman on Board corporate ensuring that the Group operates within a framework of prudent and governance matters, in particular in planning the agenda for the annual effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
cycles of Board and committee meetings, and ensuring information is available for the Board in a timely manner.
He ensures that there is an THE CHAIRMAN AND THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE appropriate level of communication between the Board and its committees The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief and between senior management and the Non-executive Directors.
He also Executive has been agreed by the Board and is set out in writing.
keeps the Board apprised of developments in relevant legislative, regulatory and governance matters, facilitates Directors induction and assists with The Chairman leads the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and promoting professional development as required.
high standards of corporate governance.
He ensures that there is a clear structure for the operation of the Board and its Committees and BOARD MEETINGS encourages open communication between all Directors.
In conjunction The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and delegates with the Company Secretary and Chief Executive, he sets the Board certain matters to committees as outlined below.
It is anticipated that the agenda and ensures that the Board receives accurate, relevant and timely Board will convene on seven formal scheduled occasions during 2013 information about the Companys affairs.
The Chairman meets routinely as well as holding a number of ad hoc committee meetings to consider with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary to discuss relevant non-routine business.
In addition, it is envisaged that the Chairman matters.
The Chairman also serves as Chairman of The Vitec Group plc.
and the other Non-executive Directors will meet routinely on their own The Board considers that the Chairman is able to, and does, devote without the Executive Directors present.
At least once each year the Nonsufficient time to his duties at Vesuvius.
executive Directors will meet without the Chairman present to discuss matters such as the Chairmans performance.
The Chief Executive manages the Group.
He is responsible for developing the Groups strategic direction for consideration and Specific matters reserved for the Board include: reviewing Group approval by the Board.
He has day to day responsibility for managing and divisional performance: approving significant transactions the Groups operations, for the application of the Groups policies and including acquisitions, divestments, capital expenditure and changes for the implementation of the agreed strategy.
He is accountable to, to the Groups capital structure: setting and approving the Groups and reports to, the Board on the performance of the business.
strategy and annual budget: approving the Groups financing and Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 66 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Governance treasury policies: declaration of dividends: succession planning: and BOARD COMMITTEES approving Board appointments and the remuneration of the NonThe principal governance committees of the Board are the Audit, executive Directors.
Furthermore, the Board considers health, safety Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
In addition, the Board and environmental matters and maintains overall responsibility for the delegates certain responsibilities on an ad hoc basis to the Finance and Groups system of internal control and risk management processes.
Minimum number of Role Chair of Committee Membership meetings per year Audit Committee To monitor the integrity of financial Jeff Hewitt All independent NonThree.
reporting and to assist the Board in executive Directors.
its review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems.
Remuneration To determine the appropriate John Sussens All independent NonAs necessary, it is Committee remuneration packages for the executive Directors.
anticipated that at least Groups Chairman, Executive three meetings will be held Directors, and Company Secretary, each year.
and to recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for other Senior Management.
Nominations To advise the Board on appointments, John McDonough, the The Chairman and any As necessary.
Committee retirements and resignations from the Chairman except where three Non-executive Board and its committees and review considering his own Directors.
succession planning for the Board.
succession or replacement in which case the Committee is chaired by John Sussens, the Senior Independent Director.
Finance Committee To approve specific funding and The Chairman The Chairman, Chief As necessary.
treasury related matters as set out in Executive, Chief Financial the Groups delegated authorities or as Officer and Group Treasurer.
delegated from time-to-time by the Board.
Share Schemes To facilitate the administration of Any member.
Committee the Companys share schemes.
Each committee has written terms of reference agreed by the Board.
These are available to view on the Companys website www.
In addition to these formal Board Committees, the Group also operates an Executive Committee.
This Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive, assists the Chief Executive in discharging his responsibilities.
It is responsible for the executive management of the Groups businesses and comprises the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, the Company Secretary, the five Business Unit Presidents, and the three Vice Presidents of Human Resources, Research and Development, and Manufacturing, Engineering, QHSE and Purchasing.
The Executive Committee is scheduled to meet six times during 2013. www.
com Stock Code: VSVS 67 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Corporate governance report continued The attendance of Directors who served between 31 October 2012 when the formal Board of Vesuvius plc was appointed and 31 December 2012, at the Board and principal committee meetings held during this period, is shown in the table below.
The maximum number of meetings in the period when the individual was a Board member is shown in brackets.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Chairman John McDonough CBE 1 2 n a n a 1 1 Executive Directors Chris OShea 2 2 n a n a n a Franois Wanecq 2 2 n a n a n a Non-executive Directors Christer Gardell 2 2 n a n a 1 1 Jeff Hewitt 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 Jane Hinkley 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Jan Oosterveld 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 John Sussens 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 The Directors also held a number of informal meetings prior to their the independence criteria on his appointment to the Board.
Mr Sussens appointment to the Board to discuss matters pertaining to the demerger currently serves as Senior Independent Director.
of Cookson Group and the set up and constitution of the new plc.
Messrs Oosterveld and Sussens intend to retire as Directors of Vesuvius Messrs Bryan Elliston and Richard Malthouse served as the initial plc immediately following the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Ms Directors of the Company from the date of incorporation until the Hinkley will then become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee formal Board was appointed on 31 October 2012.
They attended and Mr Hewitt will assume the role of Senior Independent Director.
The two Board meetings of the Company during this period.
biographical details of the Directors are set out on pages 62 and 63.
EFFECTIVENESS APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD BOARD COMPOSITION Recommendations for appointments to the Board are made by the The Board currently has nine Directors, comprising the Non-executive Nominations Committee.
The Nominations Committee follows a Chairman, John McDonough CBE: the Chief Executive, Franois formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of Wanecq: the Chief Financial Officer, Chris OShea: and six Nonnew Directors to the Board.
Board appointments are made on merit executive Directors.
Richard Malthouse serves as Company Secretary.
against objective criteria, selecting the best candidate for the post.
Non-executive appointees are also required to demonstrate that they The Board seeks to ensure that both it, and its committees, have the have sufficient time to devote to the role.
The Nominations Committee appropriate range of skills, experience, independence and knowledge is responsible for reviewing the Board succession plans to ensure of the Company to enable them to discharge their respective duties that plans are in place for the appropriate refreshing and orderly and responsibilities effectively.
The Board considers its size to be succession of Board directorships.
Further information is set out in the appropriate for the requirements of the business.
The Non-executive Nominations Committee Report on page 75.
Directors are drawn from different nationalities and have significant experience of managing complex global manufacturing businesses.
TIME COMMITMENT OF THE CHAIRMAN AND THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS No-one other than committee chairmen and members of the Committees The Chairman and Non-executive Directors each have a letter of are entitled to be present at meetings of the Audit, Nominations and appointment which sets out the terms and conditions of their directorship.
Remuneration Committees, but others may attend by invitation.
An indication of the anticipated time commitment was provided in their recruitment role specification, and their letters of appointment provide The Board considers the majority of the Non-executive Directors, details of the meetings that they are expected to attend, along with namely Nelda Connors, Jeff Hewitt, Jane Hinkley, Jan Oosterveld and indicating the need to accommodate travelling time particularly for John Sussens, to be independent of management and free from any overseas trips and to set aside sufficient time to prepare for meetings, business or other relationship which could affect the exercise of their and to regularly refresh and update their skills and knowledge.
Christer Gardell is Managing Partner of Cevian Directors agree to commit sufficient time for the proper performance of Capital which holds 20% of Vesuvius issued ordinary share capital and their responsibilities and understand that this will vary from year to year is therefore not considered to be independent.
The Chairman satisfied depending on the Groups activities.
Directors are expected to attend Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 68 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Governance all Board meetings and any additional meetings including committee The Chairman will be responsible for, and will lead, the evaluation meetings as required.
Directors other significant commitments are process and will be assisted by the Company Secretary.
The Senior disclosed to the Board at the time of their appointment and they are Independent Director will be responsible for the performance required to notify the Board of any subsequent changes.
The Company has evaluation of the Chairman.
reviewed the availability of the Non-executive Directors and considers that each of them is able to, and in practice does, devote the necessary amount ELECTION OF DIRECTORS of time to the Companys business.
The Code recommends that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies be subject to annual election by shareholders.
All the Directors will INDUCTION AND TRAINING therefore be offering themselves for election at this years Annual A comprehensive induction programme has been created for new General Meeting AGM, with the exception of Messrs Oosterveld Directors.
This includes visits to manufacturing facilities, meetings with and Sussens who will be retiring as Directors at the AGM.
The key Group executives and introductions to the Companys principal biographical details of each of the Directors, including details of their external advisers, as appropriate.
Reference materials are provided, other directorships and relevant skills and experience, are set out in including information about the Board, its committees, Directors duties, the 2013 Notice of AGM.
The Board believes that each of the Directors procedures for dealing in the Companys shares and other regulatory standing for election is effective and demonstrates commitment and governance matters, and Directors are advised of their legal and to their respective roles.
Accordingly, the Board recommends that other duties and obligations as Directors of a listed company.
shareholders approve the resolutions to be proposed at the 2013 AGM relating to the election of the Directors.
It is envisaged that the Chairman will meet with Directors on an ongoing basis to review any training and development needs.
In DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES addition, the Directors are provided with details of seminars and To the extent permitted by section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, training courses relevant to their role.
They are encouraged to attend the Directors have been granted Qualifying Third Party Indemnity these as they consider appropriate and are supported by the Company Provisions by the Company and the directors of the Groups UK in so doing.
Where a general training need is identified, in-house Pension Plan Trustee Board none of whom are Directors of Vesuvius training will be provided to the entire Board.
plc have been granted Qualifying Pension Scheme Indemnity Provisions by Cookson Pension Plans Trustees Ltd.
The indemnities INFORMATION AND SUPPORT for Directors of Vesuvius plc have been in force since the date of The Board has in place processes to ensure that it is supplied in a their appointment.
The Pension Trustee indemnities were in force timely manner with information of an appropriate quality to enable it throughout the last financial year and remain in force.
to adequately discharge its responsibilities.
Papers are provided to the Directors in advance of the relevant Board or committee meeting to DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST enable them to make further enquiries about any matters prior to the Provisions in the Companys Articles of Association permit the Board meeting should they so wish.
This also allows Directors who are unable to consider and, if thought fit, to authorise situations where a to attend to submit views in advance of the meeting.
The Company Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with Secretarys role in facilitating the appropriate flow of information is the interests of the Company Situational Conflicts.
The Board described in further detail under the role description above.
The Chief has established a formal system for Directors to declare Situational Executive provides, as a matter of routine, a written update on important Conflicts so that they can be considered for authorisation by the business issues between meetings and invites the views of the Directors.
remaining members of the Board.
In deciding whether to authorise a Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted Directors are required to act All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company in the way they consider would be most likely to promote the success Secretary.
There is also an agreed procedure in place for Directors, of the Company, and they may impose limits or conditions when in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent legal advice if giving authorisation or subsequently if they think this is appropriate.
necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary records the consideration of any conflict and records any authorisations granted.
The Board believes that the PERFORMANCE EVALUATION systems it has in place for reporting Situational Conflicts continue to In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Board of Vesuvius operate effectively.
plc intends to undertake a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and effectiveness and to assess the performance of its committees and individual Board members on an annual basis.
The Board will consider the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company on the Board, its diversity, including gender, how the Board works together as a unit and other factors relevant to its effectiveness.
com Stock Code: VSVS 69 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Corporate governance report continued ACCOUNTABILITY Group accounting policies and procedures are formulated and disseminated to all Group operations, covering the application of THE AUDIT COMMITTEE accounting standards and the maintenance of accounting records and The membership of the Audit Committee is set out on page 72.
The key financial control procedures.
Audit Committee report which summarises the terms of reference of the Audit Committee and describes its work in discharging its Operational controls responsibilities is set out on pages 72 to 74.
Each operating company, including the Corporate offices, maintains internal controls and procedures appropriate to its structure and FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING business environment, whilst complying with Group policies on items The Business Review referenced on page 93 sets out explanations for such as the authorisation of capital expenditure, treasury transactions the basis on which the Group generates or preserves value over the and the management of intellectual property.
longer term and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Group.
In addition, the Groups financial reporting process, including the A statement of the Directors responsibility for preparing the Annual preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements, Report and Accounts is set out on page 100 and a statement by incorporates the dissemination and use of common accounting policies the Auditor, KPMG LLP about its reporting responsibilities is set out and procedures and financial reporting software.
As detailed on page 93, the Directors consider that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in The Board considers significant financing and investment decisions operational existence for the foreseeable future and accordingly, concerning the Group, including the giving of guarantees and they have adopted a going concern basis in preparing the financial indemnities, and monitors policy and control mechanisms for managing statements of the Group and the Company.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Risk assessment and management The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing maintenance of the Groups system of risk management and internal any significant risks faced by Vesuvius and, previously, Cookson.
Group control, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This system is designed management operates a risk management process designed to identify to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks facing the Group and the key risks facing each business and reports to the Board on how safeguard assets.
No system of internal control can provide absolute those risks are being managed.
As a basis for this report, each of the assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups system Groups major business units produces a risk map which identifies is designed to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance their key risks and assesses the likelihood of those risks occurring, their that problems are identified on a timely basis and are dealt with impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage those appropriately.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the risks to a desired level.
Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and that the necessary actions have The Board reviews the role of insurance and other measures used in been taken to remedy and control any control weaknesses identified managing risks across the Group, receives reports on any major issues during the year.
Since the date of this review there have been no that arise and makes an annual assessment of how the risks have significant changes in internal controls or other matters which could changed.
REVIEWING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROLS The Audit Committee assists the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of The internal control system is monitored and supported by the Groups the Groups system of internal control, including financial, operational internal audit function.
This function assists management and the and compliance controls, and risk management systems.
The key Board in the effective discharge of its responsibility for internal control features of the Groups system of internal control include: by conducting reviews of Vesuvius businesses and reporting objectively both on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal Strategy and financial reporting control in place and as to whether those businesses are in compliance The Group operates a comprehensive strategic planning and forecasting with applicable Group policies and procedures.
The Audit Committee process, with an annual budget approved by the Board.
Monthly receives reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit and reports to operating financial information is reported against this budget and key the Board on the results of its review.
Action is then taken as appropriate.
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 70 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Governance As part of the Boards process for reviewing the effectiveness of the The Companys investor relations programme is managed by the Chief system of internal control, it delegates the following matters to the Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The majority of meetings with Audit Committee to be carried out during the year: investors are led by them, but the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other Directors are also be available to meet with review of external and internal audit work plans: significant shareholders as appropriate.
consideration of reports from management, internal audit and external audit on the system of internal control and any significant The Company will report its financial results to shareholders twice control weaknesses: and a year, with the publication of its Annual and Half-Yearly Financial discussions with management on the actions taken on problem Reports, and will issue two further trading updates each year with the areas identified by Board members, in internal audit reports or in publication of its Interim Management Statements.
In conjunction with external audit management letters.
these announcements, presentations or teleconference calls will be held with institutional investors and analysts.
Recordings of these will be At the year-end, following the review by the Audit Committee of made available on the Groups website along with hard copies of any internal financial controls and of the processes covering other presentation materials issued www.
controls, the Board evaluated the results of the internal control and risk management procedures conducted by senior management.
Regular updates on shareholder issues and discussions will be provided This included a self-certification exercise by which senior financial to the Board.
Board members will continue to receive copies of and operational management throughout the Group certified the significant analysts notes issued on the Company.
All Directors are effectiveness of the system of internal control within the businesses expected to attend the Companys AGM, providing shareholders with for which they were responsible, together with their compliance the opportunity to question them about issues relating to the Group, throughout the year with the Groups policies and procedures.
either during the meeting or informally afterwards.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION AND RISK All the independent Non-executive Directors serve on both the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
They are therefore able to bring their experience and knowledge of the activities of each committee to bear when considering the critical judgements of the other.
This means that the Directors are in a position to consider carefully the impact of incentive arrangements on the Groups risk profile and to ensure the Groups remuneration policy and programme is structured so as to accord with the long-term objectives and risk appetite of the Company.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board seeks to ensure effective engagement with shareholders through the Companys regular communications, the AGM and other investor relations activities.
Prior to the demerger of Cookson Group, the Company held a Capital Markets Day to provide the Groups stakeholders with more detailed insight into the Groups future strategy and investment proposition.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer then led a series of meetings with investors to promote the new Company.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, met with key institutional shareholders and their representative bodies to discuss the proposals for the Companys new remuneration policy.
com Stock Code: VSVS 71 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Audit committee report The Audit Committee plays a key role in monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements, and the effectiveness of the Groups internal and external audit functions.
The Committee also assists the Board in assessing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
JEFF HEWITT, AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN MEMBERS ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES Jeff Hewitt Committee Chairman The primary role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: Nelda Connors Jane Hinkley monitoring the integrity of the Companys half-year and annual Jan Oosterveld financial statements, the Interim Management Statements and any John Sussens other formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance: reviewing the process whereby the Board assesses the effectiveness The Audit Committee members are the independent Non-executive of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems: Directors.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Hewitt, a qualified establishing and reviewing procedures for detecting fraud, and accountant.
The Code requires the Board to be satisfied that at least systems and controls for the prevention of bribery, along with one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial overseeing the Companys arrangements for employees to raise experience.
The Board considers that Mr Hewitt possesses the requisite concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other financial experience to meet this requirement.
matters: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys The Audit Committee has only held two meetings since the internal audit function: incorporation of the Company but detailed plans are in place for the monitoring and reviewing the Auditors independence, objectivity structure of meetings for the forthcoming year, and the operation of the and effectiveness, taking into account professional and regulatory Committee.
requirements: making recommendations to the Board on the appointment and At the invitation of the Audit Committee Chairman, the Chairman, nondismissal of the Auditor and approving the remuneration and terms independent Non-executive Director - Christer Gardell, Chief Executive, of engagement of the Auditor: and Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Group Head of helping to strengthen the independent position of the Auditor by Internal Audit and the Companys Auditor, KPMG LLP, attend meetings.
providing a direct channel of communication between it and the Other executives are invited to attend as and when appropriate.
is envisaged that the Audit Committee will meet regularly with the Companys Auditor and the Group Head of Internal Audit without any ACTIVITIES executives being present.
During the period since incorporation, the Audit Committee has met on two occasions.
In respect of all matters considered by the Audit The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Audit Committee.
Committee, it believes that it received sufficient, reliable and timely information from management and the Auditor, to enable it to fulfil its The Audit Committee operates under formal terms of reference that will responsibilities.
be reviewed on a regular basis.
These terms of reference authorise the Committee to obtain outside legal or other independent professional During the past year Messrs Hewitt, Oosterveld and Sussens served advice at the cost of the Company and to secure the attendance at as members of the Cookson Group plc Audit Committee before the Audit Committee meetings of other parties with relevant experience Vesuvius Audit Committee was established.
The Cookson Group plc and expertise should it be considered necessary.
Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities as follows: The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of the Audit at its meeting in July 2012 the Cookson Audit Committee reviewed Committee meetings to the Board and all members of the Board receive the Companys Half-Yearly Report.
In doing so, the Committee the agenda, papers and minutes of Audit Committee meetings.
received reports from management on significant aspects of the Groups financial statements, including matters requiring significant Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 72 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Governance management judgement, asset impairment valuation, amounts Group: was presented with information on significant litigation reported at fair value, off-balance sheet items and contingent involving the Group: received an update from Internal Audit liabilities, and received reports from the Auditor identifying any and reviewed the independence of the Companys Auditor and accounting or judgemental issues thereon requiring its attention: considered its re-appointment.
at each of its meetings, the Cookson Audit Committee received reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit covering, amongst It is envisaged that the Vesuvius Audit Committee will continue other things, the work undertaken by the internal audit function to adopt a similar approach to the structuring of meetings as that and management responses to proposals made in the audit reports operated by Cookson, although this will obviously evolve in line with issued by the function during the year.
In addition, at the July changing best practice.
In particular during 2013, in compliance 2012 meeting, the Cookson Audit Committee reviewed the results with the revised code, the Committee will review its scope and of the assessments that were undertaken of the performance of accountabilities to ensure that, if requested by the Board, it can monitor the internal audit function and at the October 2012 meeting, the the effectiveness of the Groups reporting processes and thence provide Committee reviewed and approved the 2013 internal audit plans, advice on whether the Annual Report and accounts, taken as a whole, is submitted by the Group Head of Internal Audit: fair, balanced and understandable.
the Cookson Audit Committee also reviewed the Auditors control findings: APPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR at the July 2012 meeting, the Cookson Audit Committee reviewed The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the the results of the assessment which had been undertaken of the Board in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of performance of the Auditor, based upon feedback received from the Auditor.
In undertaking this duty, in relation to the reappointment the Groups finance management.
No significant problems were of the Auditor for 2013, the Committee was cognisant of the need to identified with the relationship and quality of audit by KPMG: consider a number of factors concerning the Auditor and the Groups also at the July meeting, the Cookson Audit Committee reviewed current activity, including: and agreed the audit plan presented by the Auditor, which detailed the approach and scope of the work to be undertaken and the level the quality of reports provided by the Auditor to the Audit of fee to be charged: and Committee and the Board and of advice given: at its meeting in October 2012 the Cookson Audit Committee the level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups businesses: reviewed the risk management process operated by management the independence of the Auditor, in light of the provision of nondesigned to identify the key risks facing each business and how audit services: those risks have been managed: the objectivity of the Auditors views on the controls throughout the in addition, the Cookson Audit Committee reviewed the financial Group: disclosures in relation to the demerger, including considering its ability to coordinate a global audit, working to tight deadlines: relevant matters in relation to the accounting treatment of the the cost-competitiveness of the Auditor in relation to the audit demerger and the production of the financial statements for the costs of comparable UK companies: two new plcs.
The Cookson Audit Committee also considered the the tenure of the Auditor with the Companys predecessor Cookson Audit and Internal Audit requirements for the two new companies Group plc: and and approved the establishment of appropriate systems and the ongoing rotation of the lead audit partner assigned to the procedures for them.
Since its establishment, the Vesuvius Audit Committee has discharged its In addition, the Audit Committee considered external reviews of the responsibilities as follows: performance and quality of the Auditor, including: at its meeting in December 2012, the Audit Committee considered the major reporting and accounting matters likely to arise the annual report issued by the Audit Inspection Unit of the in connection with the production of the year-end financial Financial Reporting Council on the work of the Auditor: and statements of Vesuvius plc: progress with the Auditors year-end the Auditors own annual Transparency Report.
internal controls review and received an update on internal audit: and KPMG or its predecessor firms have a long-standing tenure as the at its meeting in March 2013, the Audit Committee reviewed the Auditor of Cookson Group plc.
The services of KPMG were retained by Companys Annual Results Announcement and Annual Report the Company during the demerger of Cookson Group as it represented and Accounts.
It also reviewed a report from management which the most efficient and cost-effective provider to undertake the audit addressed the appropriateness of the production of the Group and work necessary.
The lead audit partner was changed during 2012 in Company financial statements on a going concern basis: reviewed accordance with external partner rotation requirements.
KPMGs audit of the Groups procedures for the identification, management and the Company and Groups 2012 year-end built on the work undertaken control of specific areas of risk which impact the Company and the in respect of the demerger.
KPMG has been the Companys Auditor since www.
com Stock Code: VSVS 73 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Audit committee report continued the date of incorporation, 17 September 2012.
The fees analysed in note 6 were all incurred pre-demerger is cognisant of the Auditors previous long-standing relationship with and therefore include amounts related to Alent plc.
Of the total Cookson, and is conscious of the transitional arrangements specified in non-audit related fees paid to the Auditor in 2012 of 2.9m, 2.3m the FRCs guidance on audit tendering.
The Audit Committee intends to related to audit and accountancy work associated with the demerger of review the need for a tendering process in due course.
In the meantime, Cookson Group, for which it was concluded that KPMG was best-placed given the recency of the lead partner rotation and taking into account the to support the Company.
In addition to the work undertaken by the performance of the Auditor during the past year, the Audit Committee is Auditor in connection with the demerger, considerable work was also recommending the Auditor for reappointment in 2013. undertaken by other accounting firms.
The terms on which the Auditor is engaged do not include any contractual obligations which would prevent the Directors appointing a INTERNAL AUDIT different audit firm should this be considered appropriate.
The Groups internal audit function operates on a global basis.
The Group Head of Internal Audit is responsible for developing the function, INDEPENDENCE AND OBJECTIVITY OF AUDITOR within the framework of common Group policies and standards, and The Audit Committee is cognisant of the need to ensure that the for carrying out assignments in accordance with an annual audit plan independence and objectivity of the Auditor is continually maintained.
approved by the Audit Committee.
In 2013, it is proposed that 63 audit It has put in place safeguards to ensure that the independence of the assignments be undertaken covering 55 businesses.
The Group Head external audit is not compromised.
These safeguards include: of Internal Audit reports directly to the Audit Committee Chairman.
The Audit Committee receives reports from the Group Head of Internal seeking ongoing confirmation that the Auditor is independent of Audit and reports to the Board on the results of its review.
the Company in its own professional judgement: and considering all the relationships between the Auditor and the EMPLOYEE HELPLINE Group, including those relating to the provision of non-audit The Audit Committee has established procedures for the receipt, services and whether these impair, or appear to impair, the retention and treatment of complaints received by the Company Auditors judgement or independence.
including accounting, internal controls, auditing matters, harassment and confidential communications from employees.
This is an The Audit Committee monitors the other services being provided to the independent and confidential service through which employees Group by the Auditor.
The Company has a policy governing the Groupworldwide may register any concerns about any incorrect or irregular wide conduct of non-audit work by the Auditor to ensure that this does practices they perceive in Vesuvius workplaces.
The helpline is operated not impair its independence or objectivity.
The Auditor is prohibited 24 hours a day, seven days a week, by an organisation that specialises from performing services where it: in the provision of such services.
It can be contacted by phone, email or via a designated website.
Translation facilities are available for those for may be required to audit its own work: whom English is not their first or preferred language.
would participate in activities that would normally be undertaken by management: APPROACH TO ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION TRAINING is remunerated through a success fee structure: or The Groups Code of Conduct and its policies on anti-bribery and acts in an advocacy role for the Group.
corruption require that employees and others working on behalf of the Group do not engage in any form of bribery or corruption.
An antiThe policy sets out the categories of work that the Auditor is prohibited bribery and corruption compliance programme has been established from undertaking.
Other than these, the Company does not impose an throughout the Group, and is being implemented through a targeted automatic prohibition on the Auditor undertaking non-audit work.
An e-learning module is being rolled Auditor is eligible for selection to provide non-audit services that are out globally.
New employees, as relevant, will go through the training not, or are not perceived to be, in conflict with auditor independence, as part of their induction process.
The compliance programme includes provided it has the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work undertaking risk assessments and engaging with others working on in the best interests of the Group.
behalf of the Group to ensure that their standards comply with the Groups policies.
The Company is a member of the corporate supporters An annual budget for non-audit related fees which the Group is forum of Transparency International UK.
proposing to pay to the Auditor, is presented for pre-approval to the Audit Committee.
Any individual assignment where the fee is likely to be in On behalf of the Audit Committee excess of 50,000 must be pre-approved by the Audit Committee.
Where appropriate, services are tendered prior to awarding work to the Auditor.
JEFF HEWITT Chairman, Audit Committee Details of the amounts paid to the Auditor during the year for audit and 28 March 2013 other services are set out in note 6 to the consolidated financial Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 74 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Governance Nominations committee report The Nominations Committee advises the Board on appointments, retirements and resignations from the Board and its Committees and reviews the Boards succession plans.
Its primary focus is on ensuring the ongoing strength of the Board, by ensuring that it is appropriately structured and resourced by individuals with the skills and experience necessary to discharge its duties and responsibilities.
JOHN McDONOUGH CBE, NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN MEMBERS gender diversity and best practice in search assignments.
Wherever The members of the Committee are John McDonough Committee possible, the Nominations Committee arranges for all Directors to Chairman and any three of the Non-executive Directors Nelda meet with the preferred candidate.
The Nominations Committee makes Connors, Christer Gardell, Jeff Hewitt, Jane Hinkley, Jan Oosterveld and recommendations for each appointment to the full Board.
Care is taken John Sussens.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
to ensure that all proposed appointees have sufficient time available to devote to the role and do not have any conflicts of interest.
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES The Nominations Committee advises the Board on appointments to, and The search process for the new Non-executive Directors to replace Messrs retirements and resignations from, the Board and its committees, and Oosterveld and Sussens, who will be stepping down at the forthcoming reviews the Companys succession plans.
The Committee meets as and Annual General Meeting, gave priority to candidates with global CEO when required and is chaired by the Chairman or a Non-executive Director.
CFO experience, an understanding of executive compensation and The Chairman would not act as chairman of the Nominations Committee knowledge of, and experience in, Asia - Pacific markets.
JCA Group where it was dealing with the appointment of his successor.
Formal and Russell Reynolds Associates, specialist executive recruitment firms, meetings are held to consider standing items of business: there is also a were engaged to identify appropriate candidates.
A longlist of potential significant level of ad hoc discussion between members of the Nominations appointees was considered, and candidates were shortlisted for interview Committee, particularly when a recruitment exercise is taking place.
based upon their fulfilment of objective criteria.
The Committee then recommended the two preferred candidates, Ms Connors and Ms Hinkley, When considering the appointment of new Directors, the Nominations to the Board for appointment.
Committee draws up a specification, taking into consideration the diversity of the Board including the balance of skills, knowledge and It is the responsibility of the Nominations Committee to review the experience, the independence of Board members and the ongoing Companys succession plans for members of the Board.
The Board requirements of the Group.
The Nominations Committees foremost as a whole will also consider the subject.
It is envisaged that each of priority is to ensure that the Company has the best possible leadership.
Vesuvius divisions will submit detailed succession plans in respect of Its prime focus is on the strength of the Board, for which appointments senior divisional executives to the Board for review each year.
The Board are made on merit against objective criteria, selecting the best will also actively seek to meet with key executives throughout the candidate for the post.
Group so as to gain a greater understanding of the breadth and depth of management talent.
This will enable members of the Committee to At present, two of the nine Vesuvius Directors are women, and four are adopt a more informed approach to succession planning.
All Directors have served at a very senior level in global organisations, have international experience across a variety of The Chairman of the Nominations Committee reports the outcome of industries, and most have spent a considerable amount of time resident the Nominations Committee meetings to the Board.
The Nominations Committee believes that this diversity supports the operation of an effective Board.
On behalf of the Nominations Committee The Board has not set any specific aspirations in respect of gender JOHN McDONOUGH CBE diversity but believes that refreshment of the Board should take into Chairman, Nominations Committee account the need to consider diversity in all its forms.
28 March 2013 The Nominations Committee utilises the services of executive search firms to identify appropriate candidates and will only use those firms that have adopted the Voluntary Code of Conduct addressing www.
com Stock Code: VSVS 75 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Directors remuneration report The Company is committed to open and transparent dialogue with its shareholders on remuneration as well as other governance matters.
As a matter of course the Remuneration Committee will consult with key institutional shareholders and various representative bodies about the incentive arrangements of the Companys Executive Directors.
JOHN SUSSENS, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN INTRODUCTORY STATEMENT FROM THE REMUNERATION The Company aims to provide median total remuneration levels for target COMMITTEE CHAIR performance and up to upper quartile total remuneration levels for superior performance.
This is assessed against FTSE 250 companies and relevant DEAR SHAREHOLDER international sector-specific companies to reach a rounded judgement.
As outlined earlier in this Annual Report, 2012 was a year of fundamental change for Cookson Group plc Cookson.
In December, Cookson As disclosed in the demerger prospectus and approved by shareholders demerged into two new businesses, Vesuvius plc and Alent plc.
Vesuvius at the time of the demerger, the remuneration of the Executive Directors plc became the new holding company of the Engineered Ceramics and comprises base salary, annual incentive, the long-term incentive plan Precious Metals Processing divisions, and Alent plc became the new LTIP and retirement benefits.
This is similar to the pre-demerger holding company of the Performance Materials division.
This report focuses remuneration structure at Cookson except that it is simpler as it excludes on the philosophy and remuneration arrangements that the Remuneration both bonus deferral of the annual incentive and the matching shares Committee has put in place for Vesuvius following the demerger.
We are which formed part of the Cookson Group plc long-term incentive plan.
required by statute to provide details of Directors remuneration from the date of incorporation of the Company to 31 December 2012, despite When formulating this remuneration policy and structure at the time the fact that Vesuvius plc was only separately listed for 13 days of 2012, of the demerger, the overall intention was that it would result, in broad from 19 December to 31 December.
Although not required by statute, terms and as far as possible, in a no gain-no loss position for Executive we have also provided information on Directors remuneration for the Directors as compared with the pre-demerger Cookson remuneration full year ended 31 December 2012 as we believe this is more helpful to arrangements, aside from some individuals who were either new hires shareholders.
This report therefore contains the following sections: or promotions.
This remuneration policy, structure and positioning may Remuneration Committee Structure and Remit: change at some point post-demerger, but it is not anticipated that any Impact of the demerger on Executive Directors 2012 Executive material changes will be made within the Companys first year.
Remuneration Arrangements and Outstanding Share Incentives: Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors for 2013: The Company is committed to open and transparent dialogue with its Directors Contracts: shareholders on remuneration as well as other governance matters.
As Directors Remuneration for the Statutory Period from a matter of course the Remuneration Committee will consult with key Incorporation to 31 December 2012: and institutional shareholders and various representative bodies about the Directors Remuneration for 2012. incentive arrangements of the Companys Executive Directors.
Indeed, during the demerger process, the views of Cooksons largest shareholders The report includes a number of the disclosures that have been were sought on a number of matters, including in relation to the proposed recommended by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills in remuneration policy, structure and positioning of Vesuvius.
These views were its draft new reporting regulations.
very supportive and were reflected in 97.73% of votes at the demerger General Meeting being cast in favour of the approval of the new Alent and In terms of the Companys overall remuneration policy, the Vesuvius Share Plans.
We look forward to continuing this dialogue.
remuneration structure for Executive Directors and other senior managers, like that of Cookson, aims to: On behalf of the Remuneration Committee attract and retain high calibre executives: strongly support the Companys strategy: align managements interests with those of shareholders: and JOHN SUSSENS foster a high performance culture, with a substantial portion of Chairman, Remuneration Committee remuneration being performance linked.
28 March 2013 Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 76 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE STRUCTURE AND REMIT Members John Sussens Committee Chairman Nelda Connors Jeff Hewitt Jane Hinkley Jan Oosterveld Roles and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible for: setting the appropriate remuneration for the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary: recommending and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for senior management, being the first layer of management below Board level: and overseeing the operation of any Executive share incentive plans.
A copy of the Remuneration Committees Terms of Reference is available on the Companys website, www.
Composition of the Remuneration Committee The current members of the Remuneration Committee are all the independent Non-executive Directors.
Mr Sussens, who chairs the Remuneration Committee, will be retiring as a Director at the forthcoming AGM, and Ms Hinkley will take over this role.
Messrs Hewitt, Oosterveld and Sussens were appointed as Directors of the Company on 31 October 2012.
Ms Hinkley was appointed on 3 December 2012 and Ms Connors on 1 March 2013.
The Company Secretary acts as Committee Secretary.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and the non-independent Non-executive Director, Mr Gardell, are invited to attend Committee meetings as appropriate, but do not participate in discussions of their own remuneration.
Advice provided to the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee appointed the external advisers Towers Watson Towers to assist it in formulating policies and deciding individual remuneration levels.
The Committee is also advised by the Chief Executive, the Vice President Human Resources, the Company Secretary, and by the law firm Clifford Chance LLP CC.
Towers was appointed directly by the Remuneration Committee to provide advice on executive remuneration matters, including remuneration structure and policy, updates on market practices and trends, and guidance on the implementation and operation of long-term incentive plans.
Towers has also provided the Remuneration Committee with remuneration benchmarking data for certain executives.
CC provides advice on the operation of executive share plans.
Towers is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct in relation to Executive Remuneration Consulting in the UK.
Towers provides other remuneration and benchmarking advice to the Company, and CC provides legal advice to the Company.
The Remuneration Committee does not believe that the provision of any of these services to the Company compromises the independence or integrity of the advice that it receives from Towers and CC.
Activities of the Remuneration Committee The Companys Remuneration Committee only met formally once during the year under review, but as members of the Cookson Remuneration Committee, Messrs Hewitt, Oosterveld and Sussens were involved in discussions regarding the implementation of Vesuvius new remuneration programme for senior executives in advance of the demerger.
com Stock Code: VSVS 77 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Directors remuneration report continued The Remuneration Committee expects to meet at least four times in 2013 to consider key matters, including: the salary review proposals for the Executive Directors and senior management: reviewing achievement against the performance targets, and approving payouts, in respect of the 2012 annual incentive arrangements: setting performance targets and approving the structure of the 2013 annual incentive arrangements: considering the Companys performance against the performance conditions applicable to the 2010 Cookson Long-Term Incentive Plan, and authorising the vesting of these awards where relevant: setting the performance conditions and authorising the grant of awards under the Vesuvius Share Plan: receiving feedback on the Remuneration Committee Chairmans meetings with key institutional shareholders regarding the Companys remuneration policy and practice, and in the light of this, and advice received from the external advisers regarding trends in remuneration practice and governance, discussing the Companys approach to executive remuneration and reviewing whether any changes should be made: reviewing the Remuneration Committees Terms of Reference, and recommending any amendments to the Board for approval: and reviewing and approving the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report.
IMPACT OF THE DEMERGER ON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 2012 COOKSON REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS AND OUTSTANDING SHARE INCENTIVES: Cookson 2012 Annual Incentive For the financial year 2012, Mr Wanecqs Annual Incentive was based on financial targets for Cookson as a whole and separately, for the Engineered Ceramics Division.
The Cookson element was based on Cookson Group Headline Earnings performance, with an adjustment based on Cooksons working capital performance to focus greater attention on cash flow performance.
The effect of this was to reduce the level of payout that could be achieved by up to 10% if specified working capital targets were not attained.
The adjuster could increase the level of payout by up to 10%, but not above the usual plan maximum.
Half of Mr Wanecqs Annual Incentive was assessed against this criterion and the remainder based upon the Cookson Engineered Ceramics divisions trading profit adjusted for performance against working capital targets.
His maximum incentive potential was 100% of salary.
For 2012 the Cookson Group Headline Earnings performance and the Engineered Ceramics Divisions trading profit were both below threshold: there is therefore no payout due to Mr Wanceq in relation to the 2012 Annual Incentive.
As part of the arrangements agreed upon his recruitment to the Company, Mr OShea is entitled to receive the maximum Annual Incentive payout of 100% for 2012 based on his pro rated salary for his period in employment.
No performance conditions were applicable to this award.
For 2012, the following Annual Incentive payments are payable: Target Achieved Incentive Paid Name Measure Weighting Performance % of salary % of salary Franois Wanecq Group Headline Earnings 50% 207m nil nil Engineered Ceramics Trading profit 50% 208m nil nil Chris OShea None n a n a 100% 100% Mr OSheas Annual Incentive payment is reported in the Directors remuneration table on page 89.
Cookson Long Term Incentive Plan Cookson LTIP The Demerger did not result in the early vesting of awards held under the Cookson LTIP.
2010 Cookson LTIP Award In the case of the grants made in 2010 under the Cookson LTIP where the performance period was due to end on 31 December 2012, the period was shortened very slightly, to end at the Demerger Effective Time 18 December 2012, so that performance was measured purely in relation to Cooksons performance being relative TSR performance and its growth in Headline Earnings Per Share EPS 50% each.
These awards are due to vest on, or shortly after, 7 April 2013 and were rolled over to become awards over a combination of Vesuvius and Alent shares in the same combination that applied to Cookson shareholders under the terms of the demerger.
This reflects the fact that these awards relate to Cookson performance and not the future performance of Vesuvius or Alent.
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 78 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Governance The proportion of shares vesting under the 2010 Cookson LTIP is based on the performance of Cookson Group plc against specified performance conditions.
Vesting of 50% of shares awarded is based upon the three-year TSR performance of the Cookson Group relative to that of the constituent companies of the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts, and 50% on Headline EPS growth over a three-year period.
The two measures operate independently.
Vesting of 50% of Performance Shares and Matching Share Awards under the 2010 Cookson LTIP awards is based on TSR performance in accordance with the following schedule: TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Performance Shares Matching Shares Vesting Ratio excluding Investment Trusts Vesting Percentage Matching Shares: Investment Shares Below Median 0% 0 Median 12.5% 0.25 : 1 Upper Quintile top 20% 50% 1.125 : 1 Between Median and Upper Quintile Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25 : 1 and 1.125 : 1 Vesting of 50% of Performance Shares and Matching Share Awards under the 2010 Cookson LTIP awards is based on Headline EPS growth, as compared with the compound annual growth in the Retail Prices Index RPI, in accordance with the following schedule: Annual Compound Headline Performance Shares Matching Shares Vesting Ratio EPS Growth above RPI Vesting Percentage Matching Shares: Investment Shares Below 3% 0% 0 3% 12.5% 0.25 : 1 At or above 10% 50% 1.125 : 1 Between 3% and 10% Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25 : 1 and 1.125 : 1 Matching Share Awards only vest if the Investment Shares originally purchased have been retained.
The performance period applicable to the awards made in 2010 ended on 18 December 2012.
Cooksons TSR performance during this almost three-year performance period was assessed against the comparator group FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts and it was determined that Cooksons performance was between the median and the upper quintile, a level which results in the vesting of 17.7% out of a maximum of 50% of Performance Share awards and Matching Share awards vesting at a ratio of 0.372 : 1, compared to a maximum vesting ratio of 1.125 : 1.
In addition, Cooksons annual compound Headline EPS growth was assessed for the performance period as being over 10% above RPI, a level which results in the maximum 50% of Performance share awards vesting and Matching shares awards vesting at a ratio of 1.125 : 1.
Prior to the vesting of any award, as an additional hurdle, vesting must be justified by the underlying financial performance of Cookson over the performance period.
It has been concluded that the vesting of the 2010 LTIP awards is justified by the underlying financial performance of Cookson.
Accordingly, 67.7% of Mr Wanecqs 2010 LTIP Performance Share award will vest and his Matching Share award will vest at a ratio of 1.497 : 1 on, or shortly after, 7 April 2013.
2011 and 2012 LTIP Awards In the case of the grants made in 2011 and 2012 under the Cookson LTIP, it was agreed prior to the demerger that awards for participants who went on to be employed by Alent plc, would be rolled over to become awards over Alent shares of equivalent value.
For those participants who went on to be employed by Vesuvius plc, their awards would be rolled over to become awards over Vesuvius shares of equivalent value.
For those participants who had already left the Cookson Group under circumstances in which they retained their LTIP entitlement, or who, at the request of Cookson, left or are leaving the Cookson Group as a result of the demerger and who have not joined either Alent or Vesuvius on a permanent basis, their awards have been rolled over to become awards over a combination of Alent and Vesuvius shares in the same combination as applied to Cookson shareholders.
Mr Wanecqs oustanding 2011 and 2012 awards have therefore been rolled over to become awards over Vesuvius shares.
Details of these awards are given on page 91.
Performance will still be measured over a three-year period, but by reference to Cookson performance up to the Demerger Effective Time 18 December 2012 and by reference to Vesuvius performance for Vesuvius shares or Alent performance for Alent shares thereafter to the end of the period.
The awards continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of the Cookson LTIP, save that the relevant company and relevant Remuneration Committee is Vesuvius for Vesuvius employees and leavers, and Alent for Alent employees, instead of Cookson.
com Stock Code: VSVS 79 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Directors remuneration report continued The method of measuring performance for the 2011 and 2012 LTIP awards is as follows: As regards the EPS targets, the mechanics of the proposed adjustments were disclosed in the Demerger Circular.
The previously disclosed Cookson Headline EPS threshold and maximum vesting targets for the final year of the relevant three-year performance period have been split between Vesuvius and Alent by reference to their respective trading profit contributions to Cooksons total 2012 trading profit such that the new Vesuvius and Alent targets aggregate to the previously disclosed Cookson targets.
The new 2013 EPS targets for Vesuvius plc, are therefore 48.6 pence at Threshold and 58.4 pence at Maximum, and for 2014, 50.4 pence at Threshold and 62.3 pence at Maximum.
When added to the revised Alent plc targets, these targets aggregate to the former Cookson Group plc targets.
The respective Vesuvius Headline EPS values as reported for the final year of the three-year performance period will be compared with these new threshold and maximum targets to determine the vesting outcome.
Prior to the vesting of any award, as an additional hurdle, vesting must be justified by the underlying financial performance of Vesuvius over the performance period.
Vesting of 50% of Performance Shares and Matching Share Awards under the 2011 Cookson LTIP awards will be based on Headline EPS growth in accordance with the following schedule: Performance Shares Matching Shares Vesting Ratio Headline EPS for 2013 financial year Vesting Percentage Matching Shares: Investment Shares Less than 48.6 pence 0% 0 48.6 pence 12.5% 0.25 : 1 58.4 pence or more 50% 1.125 : 1 Between 48.6 pence and 58.4 pence Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25 : 1 and 1.125 : 1 Vesting of 50% of Performance Shares and Matching Share Awards for the 2012 Cookson LTIP awards will be based on Headline EPS growth in accordance with the following schedule: Performance Shares Matching Shares Vesting Ratio Headline EPS for 2014 financial year Vesting Percentage Matching Shares: Investment Shares Less than 50.4 pence 0% 0 50.4 pence 12.5% 0.25 : 1 62.3 pence or more 50% 1.125 : 1 Between 50.4 pence and 62.3 pence Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25 : 1 and 1.125 : 1 As regards the TSR targets, Cooksons TSR growth from the start of the relevant three-year performance period up to the time of the demerger has been determined.
For the purpose of the 2011 LTIP awards, Cooksons TSR grew by 9% in the period from 1 January 2011 to 18 December 2012, and for the purpose of the 2012 LTIP awards, Cooksons TSR grew by 28.1% in the period from 1 January 2012 to 18 December 2012.
These growth figures will be added to the TSR growth of Vesuvius from the demerger date to the end of the three-year performance period.
This aggregate TSR growth will then be ranked against the TSR of the relevant comparator group and the resulting vesting outcome will be calculated against the TSR performance schedule in the LTIP.
Vesting of 50% of Performance Shares and Matching Share Awards under the 2011 and 2012 LTIP awards will be based on TSR performance in accordance with the following schedule: TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Performance Shares Matching Shares Vesting Ratio excluding Investment Trusts Vesting Percentage Matching Shares: Investment Shares Below Median 0% 0 Median 12.5% 0.25 : 1 Upper Quintile top 20% 50% 1.125 : 1 Between Median and Upper Quintile Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25 : 1 and 1.125 : 1 Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 80 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Governance Cookson Deferred Share Bonus Plan Cookson DSBP The Cookson DSBP was implemented in 2007 to provide an alternative long-term incentive arrangement for certain executives.
The senior managers who participated in this plan received an allocation of deferred shares to the value of a percentage of their annual bonus.
In the case of the grants made in 2010 under the Cookson DSBP, these awards over Cookson shares were rolled over to become awards over a combination of Vesuvius and Alent Shares in the same combination that applied to Cookson shareholders under the terms of the demerger.
In the case of the grants made in 2011 and 2012 under the Cookson DSBP it was agreed prior to the demerger, that awards for participants who went on to be employed by Alent plc would be rolled over to become awards over Alent shares of equivalent value.
For those participants who had already left the Cookson Group, or who, at the request of Cookson, left or are leaving the Cookson Group as a result of the demerger and who have not joined either Alent or Vesuvius on a permanent basis, their awards have been rolled over to become awards over a combination of Alent and Vesuvius shares in the same combination as applied to Cookson shareholders.
The awards continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of the existing Cookson DSBP, save that the relevant company and relevant remuneration committee is Vesuvius in respect of outstanding awards for Vesuvius employees and leavers, and Alent in respect of Alent employees, instead of Cookson.
Cookson Restricted Share Award As part of his one-off appointment arrangements, and to partly offset the loss of value of long-term share incentive awards forgone as a result of him joining Cookson, Mr OShea was granted on 5 November 2012 a restricted share award with a face value of 100% of his annual base salary 340,000.
Half of the award is due to vest on the first anniversary of his date of joining 11 October 2013 and the remainder on the second anniversary 11 October 2014, subject to him remaining employed with the Company and not under notice of termination.
Mr OShea is also entitled to receive shares or cash to the value of any dividends that would have accrued on the shares he has been awarded during the period between his date of joining and the date of vesting of his awards.
This restricted share award was granted over Cookson shares which rolled over into Vesuvius Shares on demerger and was granted by individual award agreement not under the terms of the Cookson LTIP or the Vesuvius Share Plan.
DIVIDEND ACCRUAL The Committee has the discretion to award participants in the Cookson LTIP and Cookson DSBP the dividends that would have been paid on the number of shares that vest in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the award date and the date of vesting.
These dividends can be paid in either cash or shares.
The Committee believes that this can be an important step in aligning the interests of senior executives with those of shareholders.
Details of all awards outstanding under the Cookson share plans as at 31 December 2012 are given in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements and note 10 to the Company financial statements.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FOR 2013 The remuneration policy of the Company aims to establish a remuneration structure for Executive Directors and other senior managers which: attracts and retains high calibre executives: strongly supports the Companys strategy: aligns managements interests with those of shareholders: and fosters a high performance culture, with a substantial portion of remuneration being performance linked.
When formulating this remuneration policy and structure at the time of the demerger, the overall intention was that it will result, in broad terms and as far as possible, in a no gain-no loss position for Executive Directors as compared with the pre-Demerger Cookson remuneration arrangements, aside from some individuals who were either new hires or promotions.
The Remuneration Committee will undertake a regular review of the Companys remuneration policy, structure and positioning.
These may change at some point post-Demerger but it is not anticipated that any material changes will be implemented within the first 12 months.
com Stock Code: VSVS 81 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Directors remuneration report continued In formulating remuneration policy going forward, the Remuneration Committee will have regard to the international scale and nature of the Companys operations and take into consideration the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and guidelines issued by its leading shareholders and bodies such as the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
The Remuneration Committee takes into account the pay and employment conditions of other Group employees when determining Executive Directors remuneration, particularly when determining base salary increases.
The Remuneration Committee will also obtain information on the remuneration paid for comparable roles at other companies to provide a point of reference for determining remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee is cognisant of the need to ensure that the remuneration policy is firmly linked to the Companys strategy, including its risk management philosophy.
As all Remuneration Committee members also serve on the Audit Committee, each Committee benefits from the Directors experience on the other.
This will be particularly relevant going forward, when the Remuneration Committee is considering matters such as the Companys achievement of performance conditions and the implications for the Companys risk profile of the award of incentives under the Companys remuneration programmes.
The Remuneration Committee considers the Companys current executive remuneration policy and incentive structure to be compatible with the Companys risk management and internal control systems.
The Board has set a strategy as described on page 11 designed to deliver superior returns to Vesuvius shareholders by focusing on five key objectives: maintaining Vesuviusexisting technology leadership position: enlarging Vesuvius addressable market through the penetration of product and service solutions: leveraging Vesuvius strong positions in developing markets to capture growth: improving cost leadership and margins: and building a comprehensive offering in metal casting engineering: whilst maintaining a rigorous focus on cash flow generation.
The remuneration policy incentivises and rewards executives to deliver their contribution to the achievement of the Companys strategy, with a significant proportion of the executive Directors total remuneration based on the variable, performance-related elements of the Annual Incentive and Performance Share awards under the Vesuvius Share Plan.
The performance conditions under these arrangements support the Companys focus on growth in profit, cash flow generation and shareholder returns by targeting key business imperatives such as relative total shareholder return TSR, defined as the increase in the value of a share, including reinvested dividends, Headline EPS and working capital.
These targets are objective, auditable and transparent and as such are considered to be appropriate performance measures for management.
To ensure that their interests are aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors are required to build a significant stake in the Company in accordance with the Companys share retention guidelines.
The Remuneration Committee will evaluate the efficacy of the Companys Executive remuneration policy each year and commission formal reviews as it considers appropriate.
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 82 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Governance FIXED & VARIABLE REMUNERATION FOR 2013 The following illustrates the balance between fixed and variable remuneration for the Executive Directors based on the remuneration policy for 2013: Franois Wanecq Target Variable portion 56% 34.2% 10.3% 21.3% 34.2% Franois Wanecq Maximum Variable portion 71% 22% 7% 27% 44% Chris OShea Target 35.7% 10.7% 17.9% 35.7% Variable portion 54% Chris OShea Maximum 47% 23% 7% 23% Variable portion 70% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Base Salary Pension Cash Bonus Performance Shares The following illustrates the value of the Executive Directors fixed and variable remuneration below threshold, on-target and at maximum performance: Franois Wanecq Maximum 2,502,500 Target 1,608,750 Below Threshold 715,000 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 3,000,000 Base Salary Pension Cash Bonus Performance Shares Chris OShea Maximum 1,462,000 Target 952,000 Below Threshold 442,000 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 3,000,000 Base Salary Pension Cash Bonus Performance Shares Note: All these charts assume Target payouts consist of base salary, pension allowance and incentive awards payable at 50% of Maximum.
com Stock Code: VSVS 83 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Directors remuneration report continued SUMMARY OF KEY FEATURES OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION FOR 2013 Element of Remuneration Purpose and link to remuneration policy Levels of Award Key features Base salary Helps to recruit and retain key n a Paid in cash.
Normally reviewed by the Reflects the individuals experience, Remuneration Committee annually.
role and contribution within the Company.
Annual Incentive Incentivises executives to achieve Below Threshold: 0% Entire bonus amount payable in specific, pre-defined annual targets.
On-Target: 62.5% of base salary for cash.
For 2013, Annual Incentives are the Chief Executive, 50% of base No deferral.
based on Group Headline Earnings salary for the Chief Financial Officer Subject to clawback.
performance with a working capital Maximum: 125% of base salary for adjustment target.
the Chief Executive, 100% of base salary for the Chief Financial Officer Vesuvius Share Plan Flexible umbrella plan.
Executive Directors eligible to Participants are eligible to receive Aligns executives interests with receive, on an annual basis, a annual allocations of Performance those of shareholders through the performance share award with a Share Awards.
face value of up to 200% of base These awards are eligible to vest Rewards growth in shareholder salary.
three years after their award date value and earnings.
subject to the achievement of Aids retention of key executives over specified performance conditions.
Vesting of half of awards is subject to the Companys TSR performance versus the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts.
Vesting of the remaining half of awards is subject to the growth in the Companys EPS.
Prior to any vesting the Remuneration Committee has also stipulated that, as an additional hurdle, it needs to be satisfied that vesting has been justified by the underlying financial performance of the Company over the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to award participants the dividends accrued on any shares that vest.
Retirement Benefits Helps to recruit and retain key Executive Directors are eligible to Benefits are provided by way of an employees.
receive a pension allowance of 30% allowance which can be delivered Ensures income in retirement.
in cash and or as a payment to a defined contribution arrangement.
Other Benefits Provides core benefits to Executive Core benefits on same terms as Core benefits include car allowance, Directors.
those provided to other Group life assurance, disability and health Relocation assistance provided to Executives.
the Chief Executive to support his Relocation benefits in accordance Relocation benefits include shortmove from Brussels to London.
with the Vesuvius Relocation policy.
term rent allowance, and assistance locating a property for purchase and paying associated expenses.
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 84 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Governance FURTHER DETAILS OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS FOR 2013 BASE SALARY Base salary levels reflect the individuals contribution and experience, the Companys financial performance, the pay environment for employees within the Company and the salaries paid in comparator companies.
At the time of the demerger, Mr Wanecqs promotion was reflected in a base salary increase of 10% due to changing role and increased responsibilities.
Mr Wanecqs salary is currently 550,000 p. a. and Mr OSheas salary 340,000 p. a.
It is envisaged that base salaries will be reviewed annually, with the next review scheduled for 1 January 2014.
ANNUAL INCENTIVE The Executive Directors are eligible to receive an Annual Incentive calculated as a percentage of base salary and based on achievement against specified targets.
There is no deferral of annual bonuses for Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to determine that actual incentive payments should be lower than levels calculated by reference to achievement against the specified targets if it considers this to be appropriate.
Each year the Remuneration Committee will establish the financial performance criteria for the forthcoming year.
These criteria will be set by reference to the Companys financial budget and prior year actual financial results.
The target range will be set to ensure that maximum bonuses are only paid for significantly exceeding market expectations.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the setting and attainment of these targets is important in the context of achievement of the Companys longer-term strategic goals.
The Annual Incentive has a threshold level of performance below which no award is paid, a target level and a maximum performance level at which a maximum award is earned.
Mr Wanecqs maximum Annual Incentive potential is 125% of base salary and his target annual incentive potential is 62.5% of base salary.
Mr OSheas maximum Annual Incentive potential is 100% of base salary and his target annual incentive proposal is 50% of base salary.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that for 2013 Messrs Wanecqs and OSheas Annual Incentives will be based on Group Headline Earnings, with an adjustment based on the Groups working capital performance, to focus greater attention on cash flow performance.
The effect of this will be to reduce the level of payout that the Directors can achieve by up to 10% if specified working capital targets are not attained.
The adjuster can increase the level of payout by up to 10%, but not above the usual plan maximum.
VESUVIUS SHARE PLAN Summary The Vesuvius Share Plan was approved by shareholders at the time of the demerger.
The Vesuvius Share Plan does not replicate the Cookson LTIP.
It has been simplified to remove matching shares and is structured as an umbrella plan, which gives greater flexibility in terms of the awards which can be made, in line with current market practice.
This means that the Company only needs to have one set of share plan rules to cover all its current and prospective share plan needs.
The Vesuvius Share Plan permits awards to be granted as: performance share awards: deferred share bonus awards: restricted share awards: and market-price options.
Performance Share Awards It is the Remuneration Committees intention to grant awards to Executive Directors under the first element, performance share awards, in 2013.
Awards under this element reward executives for delivering superior TSR, defined as the increase in the value of a share, including reinvested dividends, and EPS growth over a set period of time, and as such is intended to align executive remuneration with shareholders interests.
Eligibility and individual grant levels Executive Directors are eligible to receive, on an annual basis, a performance share award with a face value of up to 200% of base salary.
Performance conditions for performance share awards The vesting of performance share awards granted by the Company will be based on the Companys performance against specified performance conditions measured over a three-year period.
For 2013, the performance metrics are similar to the Cookson Long-Term Incentive Plan Headline EPS and TSR based.
The performance scale for the 2013 Vesuvius Share Plan awards has been set to be stretching.
The nominal figures for Headline EPS part of the award have been selected in the light of a relatively low base period result.
The performance scale for future awards is intended to be of similar difficulty, but the nominal growth rates selected for 2014 and after are expected to be set at a lower rate than those for 2013.
The Remuneration Committee will take into account the Groups prospects and the broader global economic environment when setting future targets.
com Stock Code: VSVS 85 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Directors remuneration report continued For awards made in 2013, the proportion of shares vesting will be based on the Companys performance against specified performance conditions.
Vesting of 50% of shares awarded will be based upon the Companys three-year TSR performance relative to that of the constituent companies of the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts, and 50% on Headline EPS growth, as compared with the compound annual growth in global GDP over a three-year period.
The two measures will operate independently.
Vesting of 50% of performance share awards will be based on TSR performance in accordance with the following schedule: TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Performance Shares excluding Investment Trusts Vesting Percentage Below Median 0% Median 12.5% Upper Quintile top 20% 50% Between Median and Upper Quintile Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Vesting of 50% of performance shares awards will be is based on EPS growth in accordance with the following schedule: Performance Shares Annual Compound Headline EPS Growth above global GDP Vesting Percentage Below 7% 0% 7% 12.5% At or above 15% 50% Between 7% and 15% Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% The Remuneration Committee will obtain independent external advice to assess whether the Company has met the performance conditions at the end of the relevant performance period.
Measurement of the Companys TSR takes place over a performance period commencing on the first day of the Companys financial year in which the award is granted.
TSR is measured as the percentage increase in a return index for the Company and each comparator company between the beginning and end of the performance period.
The return index at the beginning of the performance period is the average of the return index on each weekday in the three-month period prior to the start of the performance period.
The same three-month averaging method is used to ascertain the return index at the end of the performance period.
The companies are then ranked, in descending order, according to their TSR.
If the Company is ranked at or above the median of the comparator group then a proportion of the awards is eligible to vest.
Headline EPS will be calculated on a consistent basis and the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to adjust for exceptional items as it deems appropriate.
Growth in Headline EPS is the annualised percentage growth over the performance period.
Headline EPS for the base year i. e. the calendar year prior to the award date is compared with the final year i. e. the calendar year three years after the base year.
Performance shares awards vest after three years.
Performance share awards can be granted as allocations with a fixed vesting date, or in the form of nil-cost options.
Nil-cost options awarded in 2013 would become exercisable, subject to the achievement of the applicable performance conditions, three years after their award, and then remain exercisable until the fifth anniversary of their award.
This allows each participant the flexibility to decide when to exercise their awards rather than the shares being subject to a one-off vesting date on the third anniversary of their award.
Deferred Share Bonus Awards The Remuneration Committee also intends to grant deferred share bonus awards to certain executives in 2013.
The senior managers who participate in this plan will receive an allocation of deferred shares to the value of a percentage of their annual bonus.
Neither of the Executive Directors will participate.
The deferred shares awarded will vest after three years, although an executives allocation may lapse if he or she ceases employment in certain circumstances before the end of the three-year period.
Dividend Accrual The Committee has the discretion to award participants in the Vesuvius Share Plan the dividends that would have been paid on the number of shares that vest in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the award date and the date of vesting.
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 86 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Governance CLAWBACK ARRANGEMENTS The Executive Directors are subject to clawback arrangements.
In the event that a misstatement is identified in the Companys consolidated financial statements which requires the restatement of a prior years accounts in order to ensure compliance with the requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards or any applicable law, then such portion as the Remuneration Committee deems appropriate of any variable executive remuneration including from both the Annual Incentive and the Vesuvius Share Plan resulting from a measure of financial performance affected by the misstatement will be subject to clawback provisions.
SHARE USAGE Under the rules of the Vesuvius Share Plan the Company has the discretion to satisfy awards either by the transfer of existing shares or by the allotment of newly issued shares.
The decision on how to satisfy awards is taken by the Board, which considers the most prudent and appropriate sourcing arrangement for the Company.
As at 31 December 2012, 903,983 Vesuvius shares and 903,983 Alent shares were held in the Companys employee share ownership trust ESOP.
The trustee of the ESOP purchases shares in the open market or can subscribe for newly issued shares as required, to meet obligations for the provision of shares to satisfy options and awards that vest.
The Vesuvius Share Plan rules comply with the current ABI guidelines on headroom which provide that overall dilution under all plans should not exceed 10% over a ten-year period in relation to the Companys issued share capital, with a further limitation of 5% in any ten-year period on discretionary schemes.
If all the awards over Vesuvius shares oustanding under the Cookson share plans were satisfied by the allotment of new Vesuvius shares, then this would require Vesuvius to allot less than 1% of its current issued share capital.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR GRAPH Given that the demerger did not become effective until 19 December 2012, it is not possible to produce a graph which compares the Companys TSR over the last five years with the return on an appropriate index in compliance with the Large & Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports Regulations 2008.
The graphs below therefore: i. compare the Companys TSR over the short period from the Demerger to 31 December 2012 with the return on the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
This index has been chosen as the comparator index to reflect the size, international scope and diversity of the Company: and ii.
compare Cooksons TSR over the almost five year period to 18 December 2012 with the return on the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE GROWTH IN THE VALUE OF A HYPOTHETICAL 100 HOLDING OVER 12 DAYS HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE 110 Vesuvius plc FTSE 250 Index 100 excluding Investment Trusts 90 19 Dec 2012 21 Dec 2012 23 Dec 2012 25 Dec 2012 27 Dec 2012 29 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2012 Source: DataStream HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE GROWTH IN THE VALUE OF A HYPOTHETICAL 100 HOLDING OVER FIVE YEARS 150 125 Cookson Group plc 100 FTSE 250 Index 75 excluding Investment Trusts 50 25 0 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 18 Dec 2012 Source: DataStream www.
com Stock Code: VSVS 87 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Value of Hypothetical 100 Holding Value of Hypothetical 100 Holding Directors remuneration report continued DIRECTORS CONTRACTS The following paragraphs summarise the main terms and conditions of the contracts of the Directors: Franois Wanecq Franois Wanecq is employed as Chief Executive of Vesuvius pursuant to the terms of a service agreement made with Cookson Group plc dated 17 October 2012, which was assigned to the Company upon completion of the demerger.
Mr Wanecqs appointment is terminable by the Company on not less than 12 months written notice, and by Mr Wanecq on not less than six months written notice.
The Company has the option to make a payment in lieu of part or all of the required notice period.
Any such payment in lieu will consist of the base salary, pension contributions and value of benefits to which Mr Wanecq would have been entitled for the duration of the remaining notice period, net of statutory deductions in each case.
Chris OShea Chris OShea is employed as Chief Financial Officer pursuant to the terms of a service agreement with Cookson Group plc dated 10 September 2012, which was assigned to the Company upon completion of the demerger.
Mr OSheas appointment is terminable by the Company on not less than 12 months written notice, and by Mr OShea on not less than six months written notice.
The service agreement provides that, in the event of termination notice by either party, Vesuvius may make a payment in lieu of any remaining notice to Mr OShea.
Any such payment in lieu will consist of the base salary, pension contributions and value of benefits to which Mr OShea would have been entitled for the duration of the remaining notice period net of statutory deductions in each case.
Half of any payments in lieu of notice to be made to Messrs OShea and Wanecq would be made in a lump sum, the remainder in equal monthly instalments commencing in the month in which the midpoint of their foregone notice period falls: if they found a role paying equivalent or better base salary or fees, no further instalments would be payable, and the value of any lesser new base salary or fees would be deducted from any further instalments.
Messrs OShea and Wanecq are also subject to certain non-compete covenants for a period of nine months, and non-solicitation covenants for a period of 12 months, following the termination of their employment.
The agreements are governed by English law.
Neither of the Executive Directors contracts contains any change of control provisions and they both contain a duty to mitigate should the Director find an alternative paid occupation in any period during which the Company must otherwise pay compensation on early termination.
No Directors had any material interest in a contract of significance other than service agreements with the Company or any subsidiary company during the year.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The terms of service of the Chairman and other Non-executive Directors are contained in letters of appointment.
Each Non-executive Director is appointed subject to their election at the Companys first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and re-election at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
With the exception of the Chairman, none of the Non-executive Directors are entitled to receive compensation for loss of office at any time.
During the first year of his appointment the Chairman he is entitled to 12 months notice from the Company: thereafter he is entitled to 6 months notice from the Company.
All Directors are subject to retirement, and election or re-election, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The current policy is for Non-executive Directors to serve on the Board for nine years, with review at the end of three and six years, subject to mutual agreement and annual performance evaluation.
The Board sets the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors after considering the role and responsibilities of each Director and the practice of other companies.
The Non-executive Directors do not participate in Board discussions on their own remuneration.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Neither of the Executive Directors serves as a Non-executive Director of any other quoted companies outside the Group.
PENSION ARRANGEMENTS In accordance with their contracts, Messrs Wanecq and OShea are entitled to a pension allowance of 30% of base salary, which they can use to participate in Vesuvius pension arrangements, invest in their own pension arrangements or take as a cash supplement or any combination of the aforementioned options.
Mr Wanecqs pension allowance in 2012 amounted to 159,015.
Mr OSheas pension allowance in 2012 amounted to 22,885.
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 88 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION FOR THE STATUTORY PERIOD FROM THE DATE OF INCORPORATION 17 SEPTEMBER 2012 TO 31 DECEMBER 2012 The following table details the remuneration payable to each Director for their services to Vesuvius plc for the statutory period from the Companys date of incorporation to 31 December 2012.
With the exception of Mr McDonough and Ms Hinkley, who received remuneration as Directors of the Company on appointment to the Board, no Director was paid for their services to Vesuvius plc prior to the listing of Vesuvius plc on 17 December 2012.
Messrs OShea and Wanecq, received remuneration as Directors of the Company following the assignment of their contracts to the Company on the demerger becoming effective.
Total Base 17 September salary and Annual 2012 to Non-executive Benefits Incentive 31 December 1 2 Directors fees in kind bonuses 2012 Chairman Non-executive 4 John McDonough CBE 31,545 31,545 Executive Directors 5 Chris OShea 12,143 536 12,143 24,822 6 Franois Wanecq 19,643 4,336 23,979 3 Non-executive Directors 7 Christer Gardell 1,964 1,964 7 Jeff Hewitt 2,619 2,619 8 Jane Hinkley 3,750 3,750 7 Jan Oosterveld 1,964 1,964 7 John Sussens 2,837 2,837 Total Directors remuneration 76,465 4,872 12,143 93,480 Notes 1.
Benefits in kind comprise mainly the assessed benefits arising from the contractual payments of relocation benefits, medical insurance and company car allowances.
The Annual Incentive bonus awarded to Mr OShea resulted from a contractual entitlement to receive a full prorated bonus for 2012.
The award had no performance conditions.
Details of the annual fees payable to Non-executive Directors can be found on page 94.
Appointed and remunerated as a Director of Vesuvius plc from 31 October 2012.
Recruited as an employee of Cookson Group plc on 11 October 2012, and appointed as a Director of Vesuvius plc on 31 October 2012.
Remunerated as a Director of Vesuvius plc from the date the demerger became effective 19 December 2012 when his contract of employment was assigned to Vesuvius plc.
Appointed as a Director of Vesuvius plc on 31 October 2012.
Appointed as a Director of Vesuvius plc on 31 October 2012, and remunerated as a Director of Vesuvius plc from the date of listing, 17 December 2012.
Appointed and remunerated as a Director of Vesuvius plc from 3 December 2012.
Messrs Elliston and Malthouse served as the original Directors of Vesuvius plc from the date of incorporation to 31 October 2012.
They received no remuneration in respect of their appointments.
The information in the above table is audited by the Companys Auditor.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION FOR THE NON-STATUTORY PERIOD 1 JANUARY 2012 TO 31 DECEMBER 2012 The following table details the remuneration payable to each Director for their services to Cookson Group plc as appropriate and Vesuvius plc in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012, together with comparative totals where applicable in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011.
Base salary and Annual 2012 2011 Non-executive Benefits Incentive Total Total 1 2 Directors fees in kind bonuses remuneration remuneration Chairman Non-executive 5 John McDonough CBE 31,545 31,545 Executive Directors 6 Chris OShea 76,282 3,365 76,282 155,929 7 Franois Wanecq 530,050 73,115 603,165 673,287 4 Non-executive Directors 8 Christer Gardell 23,552 23,552 9 Jeff Hewitt 55,218 55,218 55,000 10 Jane Hinkley 3,750 3,750 9 Jan Oosterveld 40,218 40,218 40,000 9 John Sussens 55,436 55,436 55,000 Total Directors remuneration 816,051 76,480 76,282 968,813 823,287 www.
com Stock Code: VSVS 89 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Directors remuneration report continued Notes 1.
Benefits in kind comprise mainly the assessed benefits arising from the contractual payments of relocation benefits, medical insurance, life assurance and company car allowances.
Mr Wanecqs remuneration details are translated into sterling at the average euro:sterling exchange rate for the year.
Served as a Director of Cookson Group plc.
Appointed as a Director of Cookson Group plc on 1 June 2012.
COOKSON LTIP ALLOCATIONS Details of Mr Wanecqs allocation of shares under the Cookson LTIP are shown in the tables below: 2009 Cookson LTIP Award Awards vested on 26 March 2012 over Cookson shares Cookson Share Additional Share Market allocations shares allocations price of outstanding allocated Shares outstanding shares as at for vested as at on day 31 Dec Dividend during 31 Dec before Vesting 1 3 3 1 2011 Accrual the year 2012 award Performance date of 3 Grant date and type of award No.
p Period shares LTIP 01 01 09 3 25 03 09 Performance Shares 303,486 8,187 311,673 180.00 31 12 11 26 03 12 01 01 09 Matching Shares 980,170 26,444 1,006,614 180.00 31 12 11 26 03 12 Totals 1,283,656 34,631 1,318,287 2010 Cookson LTIP Award as adjusted for the demerger from awards over Cookson shares into awards over shares in Alent plc and Vesuvius plc Demerger Adjustments Market price of shares on day before Cookson Share Revised Revised award allocations allocations allocations Total share allocations as adjusted outstanding as over Alent over Vesuvius outstanding as at for the Earliest 4 4 4 at 31 Dec 2011 shares shares 31 Dec 2012 demerger Performance vesting 2,5 Grant date and type of award No.
p Period date Alent Vesuvius shares shares 01 01 10 5 07 04 10 Performance Shares 93,327 93,327 93,327 93,327 93,327 311.15 18 12 12 07 04 13 01 01 10 Matching Shares 61,761 61,761 61,761 61,761 61,761 311.15 18 12 12 07 04 13 Totals 155,088 155,088 155,088 155,088 155,088 Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 90 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Governance 2011 and 2012 LTIP Awards as adjusted for the Demerger from awards over Cookson shares into awards over shares in Vesuvius plc Cookson Market price Share Total share of shares on allocations Cookson allocations day before outstanding shares Revised outstanding award as as at allocated allocation as at adjusted 31 Dec during the over Vesuvius 31 Dec for the Earliest 4 4 2011 year shares 2012 demerger Performance vesting 2 Grant date and type of award No.
The 2009 interests and market prices shown have been adjusted for the consolidation of Cooksons ordinary shares which took effect on 15 May 2009, when every ten ordinary 10p shares held by shareholders at the close of business on 14 May 2009 were exchanged for one new 1 ordinary share.
The performance criteria which apply to the vesting of share allocations under the LTIP are summarised on pages 79 to 80.
The performance period for the LTIP awards made in 2009 ended on 31 December 2011.
The Companys TSR performance during the three-year performance period was assessed against the comparator group and it was determined that the Companys performance was above the upper quintile.
The Companys annual compound Headline EPS growth over RPI was assessed as being greater than 10% during this period.
The Remuneration Committee confirmed that it was satisfied that the vesting of awards under the 2009 LTIP was justified by the underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period.
Accordingly, 100% of the 2009 LTIP awards vested on the first dealing day after the third anniversary of their award.
The Remuneration Committee also exercised its discretion to award participants in the LTIP the dividends that would have accrued during the vesting period on the shares that vested.
Mr Wanecqs award vested on 26 March 2012.
The mid-market closing price of Cooksons shares was 704.5p: the value of shares transferred to Mr Wanecq was 9,287,332.
Mr Wanecq sold 642,989 Cookson shares.
The 2010, 2011 and 2012 interests and market prices shown have been adjusted for the demerger which took effect in December 2012.
The performance period for the LTIP awards made in 2010 ended on 18 December 2012.
The Companys TSR performance during the three-year performance period was assessed against the comparator group and it was determined that the Companys performance was between the median and upper quintile.
The Companys annual compound Headline EPS growth over RPI was assessed as being above 10% during this period.
The Remuneration Committee has confirmed that it is satisfied that the vesting of awards under the 2010 LTIP is justified by the underlying financial performance of Cookson over the performance period.
Accordingly, 67.7% of the 2010 Performance Share awards will vest on the third anniversary of their award, and the Matching Share awards will vest at a ratio of 1.497 : 1.
In 2012 Mr Wanecq received a potential maximum allocation of Performance Shares worth one times his base salary.
Under the Matching Share award element of the LTIP he used his 2011 Annual Incentive payment to purchase 7,856 Cookson shares, and received a maximum allocation of Matching Share Award based on this amount which had a maximum potential value on the date of award equivalent to circa 40% of his base salary.
The allocations were made to Mr Wanecq on 5 April 2012 and were calculated based upon the closing mid-market price of Cooksons shares on the day before the awards were made.
Cooksons mid-market closing price on 4 April 2012 was 689.5p.
The mid-market closing price of Cooksons shares ranged between 509p and 747.5p from 1 January 2012 to 14 December 2012 when Cookson ceased to be listed.
The mid-market closing price of shares in Vesuvius plc was 641p and 645p on 17 and 18 December respectively, when the Cookson Group traded under the name Vesuvius plc and from 19 December to 31 December 2012, when the demerger was effective ranged between 324p and 352p.
RESTRICTED SHARE AWARD Details of the restricted share award that Mr OShea received on joining Cookson Group plc are given in the table below: Total share Market price Cookson allocation of shares on shares Revised outstanding day before allocated allocation as at award as during the over Vesuvius 31 Dec adjusted for 2 2 year shares 2012 the demerger Vesting 1 1 Date of award No.
On his appointment, Mr OShea was granted a restricted share award with a face value of 100% of base salary.
Half of the award is due to vest on the first anniversary of his date of joining and the remainder on the second anniversary, subject to him remaining employed by the Company and not under notice of termination.
No other performance conditions apply to this award.
Mr OSheas interest and the market price shown have been adjusted for the demerger which took effect in December 2012.
The mid-market closing price of shares in Vesuvius plc was 641p and 645p on 17 and 18 December respectively, when the Cookson Group traded under the name Vesuvius plc and from 19 December to 31 December 2012, when the demerger was effective, ranged between 324p and 352p.
com Stock Code: VSVS 91 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Directors remuneration report continued DIRECTORS INTERESTS On 17 December, as part of the Scheme of Arrangement, Vesuvius plc was inserted as the new parent of Cookson Group plc.
The beneficial interests of the current Directors of Vesuvius plc and their connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Cookson Group plc and the Company during 2012 were as shown below.
Cookson shares held as at Cookson Vesuvius Vesuvius 31 Dec 2011 shares held shares held shares held or date of as at as at as at appointment 14 Dec 2012 17 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2012 Chairman Non-executive John McDonough CBE Executive Directors Chris OShea Franois Wanecq 462,162 1,145,316 1,145,316 1,145,316 Non-executive Directors 3 Christer Gardell Jeff Hewitt 14,737 15,284 15,284 15,284 Jane Hinkley Jan Oosterveld 15,684 16,254 16,254 16,254 John Sussens 26,000 26,000 26,000 26,000 Notes 1.
With the exception that Mr McDonough acquired 50,000 ordinary shares in the Company, there were no changes to the interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company in the period from 1 January 2013 to 28 March 2013.
Ms Connors has not had an interest in Vesuviuss shares since the date of her appointment.
Full details of Directors shareholdings and share allocations are given in the Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open to inspection at the Companys registered office during business hours.
Mr Gardell is Managing Partner of, and has a financial interest in, Cevian Capital which held just over 20% of Cooksons issued share capital on the date of his appointment to the Cookson Board and continued to hold an interest of just over 20% in Vesuviuss issued share capital following the demerger, and as at the date of this report.
None of the other Directors, nor their spouses nor minor children, held non-beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company during the year.
Mr Malthouse, one of the initial Directors of the Company, holds one deferred share in the Company which was formally the initial subscriber share of the Company along with 50,000 redeemable preference shares which were issued in order to obtain a trading certificate for the Company.
Neither the deferred share nor the redeemable preference shares carry any voting rights or have any right to participate in the profits of the Company other than on a winding up of the Company.
Both the deferred share and the redeemable preference shares will be cancelled in due course.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES The Remuneration Committee encourages Executive Directors to build and hold a shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to at least one times salary.
To this end, Executive Directors will normally be expected to retain at least 50% measured as the value after tax of any Performance Share Awards vesting under the LTIP, until this criterion has been met.
New Executive Directors will be allowed four years in which to acquire this shareholding.
As at 31 December 2012, using the Companys share price at 31 December 2012 of 346 pence, the Executive Directors shareholdings against this guideline were as follows: Actual share ownership Guideline share as a ownership percentage of salary at as a Guideline Director 31 December 2012 percentage of salary met?
Franois Wanecq 721% 100% Yes Not yet Chris OShea nil 100% reached On behalf of the Board JOHN SUSSENS Chairman, Remuneration Committee 28 March 2013 Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 92 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Governance Directors report The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to provide a Directors our Chief Executive on pages 09 to 11: the Operating Review on Report for Vesuvius plc, for the period since incorporation, 17 September pages 17 to 27: the Financial Review on pages 51 to 56: the section 2012, to 31 December 2012.
In order to assist shareholders, the Company on Vesuvius business model on pages 13 to 15: the Key Performance has included information on the activities of the Company for the full year Indicators on page 57: this Directors Report on pages 93 to 99: the 2012.
The Directors therefore submit their Annual Report together with Corporate Governance Report on pages 64 to 92: and the Principal the audited accounts of the Group and of the Company, Vesuvius plc, Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 58 to 61. registered in England and Wales No.
8217766, for the year ended 31 December 2012 and for the period from 17 September to 31 December GOING CONCERN 2012, respectively.
Vesuvius plc was originally registered with the name Information on the business environment in which the Group operates, Vesuvius Technologies plc on 17 September 2012 and changed its name to including the factors that are likely to impact the future prospects of Vesuvius plc on 18 October 2012. the Group, is included in the message from our Chief Executive and the Operating Review.
The principal risks and uncertainties that the Group The message from our Chairman, the message from our Chief faces throughout its global operations are shown on pages 58 to 61.
Executive, the Operating Review, the Financial Review, the Corporate The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and Governance Report including the Directors Remuneration Report, the debt facilities are described in the Financial Review.
In addition, notes Principal Risks and Uncertainties, the section on Vesuviuss business 22 and 30 to the consolidated financial statements set out the Groups model, the Key Performance Indicators and Board of Directors sections objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: financial risks: of the Annual Report, together with the information on financial risk financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit, management objectives and policies contained in notes 22 and 30 market both currency and interest rate-related and liquidity risk.
Further to the consolidated financial statements, are each incorporated by details of the Groups cash balances and borrowings are included in reference into, and form part of, this Directors Report.
This Directors notes 15, 16 and 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
Report also represents the management report for the purpose of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R of the UK Listing Authority disclosure The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts for the Group for a rules.
period in excess of 12 months from the date of approval of the 2012 financial statements.
These forecasts reflect an assessment of current This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with and future end-market conditions and their impact on the Groups respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the future trading performance.
The forecasts show that the Group will be Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since able to operate within the current committed debt facilities and show future events and circumstances can cause results and developments continued compliance with the Companys financial covenants.
On to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking the basis of the exercise described above and the Groups available statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date committed debt facilities, the Directors consider that the Group and of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES Vesuvius is a global leader in metal flow engineering, developing, DIVIDENDS manufacturing and marketing mission-critical advanced ceramic Prior to the demerger of Cookson Group plc, the Boards of Alent consumable products and systems to demanding applications, primarily plc and Vesuvius plc stated that it was their intention, subject to in the global steel and foundry industries and in industries that require completion of the demerger, general market conditions and trading refractory materials for high temperature, abrasion-resistant and performance, to recommend final dividends for 2012 that aggregated corrosion-resistant applications such as the aluminium, cement and glass to 15 pence per Cookson share.
Vesuvius plc stated its intention to pay industries.
a final 2012 dividend of 9.5 pence per Vesuvius share, and Alent plc its intention to pay a final dividend of 5.5 pence per Alent share.
In line BUSINESS REVIEW with this stated intention, the Board is recommending a final dividend The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to provide a fair in respect of 2012 of 9.5 pence per ordinary share which, if approved, review of the development and performance of the Company since will be paid on 27 June 2013 to shareholders on the register at incorporation, its financial position at the end of the year and likely 17 May 2013. future developments in the Groups business, together with information on environmental matters and employees and a description of the An interim dividend of 7.50 pence 2011: 7.25 pence per Cookson principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The information ordinary share was paid on 15 October 2012 to Cookson shareholders.
which satisfies these requirements is to be found in the message from www.
com Stock Code: VSVS 93 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Directors report continued ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING A responsibility statement of the Directors and a statement by the The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The Auditor about its reporting responsibilities can be found on pages 100 Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED on Tuesday 4 and 101 respectively.
The Directors fulfil the responsibilities set out in June 2013 at 10.00 am.
The notice of meeting is contained within the their statement within the context of an overall control environment of AGM circular.
central strategic direction and decentralised operating responsibility.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR Vesuvius recognises that its operations impact a wide community As at the date of this report, so far as each Director of the Company is of stakeholders, including investors, employees, customers, business aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys associates and local communities, and that appropriate attention to Auditor is unaware and each Director hereby confirms that they have the fulfilment of its corporate responsibilities can enhance overall taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order performance.
In structuring its approach to the various aspects to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to of corporate social responsibility, the Company takes account of establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
guidelines and statements issued by stakeholder representatives and other regulatory bodies from around the world.
Social, environmental AUDITOR and ethical matters are reviewed by the Board, including the impact Resolutions for the reappointment of KPMG LLP as Auditor of the such matters may have on the Groups management of risk.
Company and to authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration are to be proposed at the AGM.
Particular emphasis is focused on the following areas: DIRECTORS Code of Conduct: requiring all Vesuvius businesses and employees The current Directors of the Company are Ms Hinkley, who was appointed to comply with the highest standards of legal and ethical on 3 December 2012, Ms Connors who was appointed on 1 March 2013, behaviour.
and Messrs Gardell, Hewitt, McDonough, Oosterveld, OShea, Sussens Health, Safety and Environment: protecting the health and safety of and Wanecq, all of whom were appointed on 31 October 2012.
Messrs our employees, contractors, customers and the general public and Elliston and Malthouse served as the initial Directors of the Company reducing energy consumption and waste in our operations.
from the date of incorporation to 31 October 2012.
Biographical Products and Services: developing innovative products and information for all the current Directors of the Company is given on services which promote sustainability in our customers production pages 62 and 63.
Messrs Oosterveld and Sussens intend to retire as processes and products.
Directors of Vesuvius plc immediately following the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
All other Directors will retire at the AGM and offer themselves HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT HS&E for election.
Further information on the contractual arrangements of the Vesuvius regards HS&E matters as mainstream management Executive Directors is given on page 88.
The Non-executive Directors do responsibilities.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Vesuvius not have service agreements.
HS&E policy and for monitoring its implementation.
Executives and line managers at all levels are directly responsible through the normal REMUNERATION OF THE CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE management structure for HS&E matters in the operations under their DIRECTORS control.
Particular emphasis is focused on the following areas: The Board considers the remuneration policy for the Non-executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors fees are 45,000 per annum.
Safety Performance: work-related injuries and illnesses.
Supplementary fees of 15,000 per annum are payable to the Regulatory Compliance: compliance with permitted air, water, Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
A supplementary waste and noise emissions criteria.
fee of 5,000 per annum is also payable to the Senior Independent Energy Usage: reducing electricity and gas consumed in our Director.
operations and hence carbon dioxide CO emissions.
2 The Chairman is paid a fee of 185,000 per annum.
The Chairmans REGULATORY COMPLIANCE remuneration is a matter for the Remuneration Committee and it will Regulatory actions against Vesuvius companies have been at a low be subject to periodic review.
Neither the Chairman, who is not an level for several years.
This is indicative of the emphasis on continuous Executive Director, nor the other Non-executive Directors are members HS&E performance improvement across Vesuvius in relation to statutory of the Groups pension plans, nor do they participate in the Groups obligations.
A small number of enforcement notices were issued to Group incentive schemes.
companies in 2012, including several that assessed minor penalties.
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 94 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Governance Like many manufacturers, some Group companies have potential operational managers, to adopt employment policies and practices that environmental liabilities because of past operations at their current best suit the size, style and geographical location of their operations.
Where remediation is required, we work with external This management structure allows the Groups operations to respond specialists and with government authorities to ensure that remediation competitively to changes in the marketplace and to develop and retain is conducted effectively and efficiently.
a strong sense of identity, whilst benefiting from being a part of a major international group.
A number of Vesuvius work activities are undertaken in higher risk locations such as steel mills or other customer-controlled facilities.
Such Vesuvius values the involvement of its employees and keeps them environments prove particularly dangerous for all personnel engaged informed on matters affecting them as employees and factors in such facilities.
Vesuvius and its customer Corus Steel, were recently relevant to Group performance.
It is established policy throughout prosecuted as a consequence of one of Vesuvius employees being Vesuvius that decisions on recruitment, career development, training, fatally injured in 2008 at a Corus facility.
Employee safety remains promotion and other employment related issues are made solely on Vesuvius greatest priority.
The initiative Safety Breakthrough the grounds of individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct.
was launched after the sad loss of Kristian Norris, to facilitate the These principles are operated on a non-discriminatory basis, without elimination of severe work-related accidents.
Vesuvius remains regard to race, colour, nationality, culture, ethnic origin, religion, sex, committed to achieving world-class safety performance across its sexual orientation, age, disability or any other reason not related to job business activities.
performance or prohibited by applicable law.
Vesuvius gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons.
CODE OF CONDUCT Should an employee become disabled during their employment with Vesuvius has a Code of Conduct the Code, which has been Vesuvius, every effort is made to enable them to continue their service distributed throughout the Group in over 25 languages and by which with the Group.
all our businesses are required to operate.
The Code emphasises the Groups commitment to compliance with the highest standards of legal PENSIONS and ethical behaviour.
The Code is reproduced in full on the Companys In each country in which the Group operates, the pension arrangements website www.
The Code sets out clear and simple in place are considered to be consistent with good employment principles covering: Customers, Products and Services: Employees: practice in that particular area.
Independent advisers are used to Investors: Society and Local Communities: Health, Safety and the ensure that the plans are operated in accordance with local legislation Environment: Conflicts of Interest: and Competitors.
and the rules of each plan.
Group policy prohibits direct investment of pension fund assets in the Companys shares.
Outside the UK, the US, Long-term customer satisfaction is recognised as being essential to the Germany and Belgium, the majority of pension plans in the Group are attainment of Group goals, as is maintaining a reputation for integrity of a defined contribution nature.
in all business and other dealings both with customers and suppliers.
The Code defines how we must compete vigorously and honestly.
The Groups UK defined benefits plan the UK Plan and the main US defined benefits plan are closed to new entrants and have The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate ceased providing future benefits accrual, with all eligible employees governance and transparent investor communication.
The Group instead being provided with benefits through defined contribution seeks to be a good corporate citizen wherever it conducts business, to arrangements.
observe all national and local laws and take into account regional and local concerns, customs and traditions.
Cookson Group plc was the principal employer of the UK Plan.
Following the demerger, the UK Plan remained with Vesuvius and The Code requires all employees, officers and Directors to have a duty all pension liabilities of the Alent employers who participated in the of loyalty to the Group and personal interests that do, may or might UK Plan immediately prior to the demerger were discharged in full.
appear to conflict with Group interests must be avoided at all times.
Cookson had agreed, with the Trustee of the UK Plan, a mitigation package in light of the loss of support from the Alent participating EMPLOYMENT POLICIES employers.
That mitigation package comprised a 38m payment to A fundamental concept embodied in the Companys Code of Conduct the UK Plan.
See note 31 to the consolidated financial statements for is that Vesuvius goals can only be met through the efforts of its further information.
Vesuvius recognises that job satisfaction requires working environments that motivate employees to be productive and innovative For the Groups closed UK Plan a Trustee Board exists comprising and provide opportunities for employee training and development to employees, former employees and an independent trustee.
The Board maximise personal potential and develop careers within the Group.
currently comprises seven trustee directors, of whom three are member Vesuvius is managed on a decentralised basis and it is the responsibility nominated.
The administration of the plan is outsourced.
The Company of the Vice President of Human Resources, together with the relevant is mindful of its obligations under the Pensions Act 2004 and of the www.
com Stock Code: VSVS 95 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Directors report continued need to comply with the guidance issued by the Pensions Regulator.
CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY Regular dialogue is maintained between the Company and the Trustee Each operating company in the Group is responsible for agreeing the Board of the UK Plan to ensure that both Company and Trustee are terms and conditions under which business transactions with their apprised of the same financial and other information about the Group suppliers are conducted.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers and the UK Plan.
This is pertinent to each being able to contribute to are made in accordance with these terms, provided that the supplier is the effective functioning of the UK Plan.
The Company currently has also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
in place a schedule of contributions, agreed with the Trustee Board, which aims to reduce to zero the deficit existing on the UK Plan as at In the accounts of the Company as at 31 December 2012, the number 31 December 2009 by February 2016.
The adequacy of this schedule of of days purchases outstanding was 21. contributions will be monitored over time, so as to assess the need for it to be modified in the light of changes in the deficit position.
ESSENTIAL CONTRACTS OR ARRANGEMENTS WITH CUSTOMERS, CONTRACTORS AND SUPPLIERS The Groups worldwide net pension deficit at 31 December 2012 The Company is required to disclose any contractual or other was 69m 31 December 2011: 59m.
The increase arose largely as arrangements with customers, contractors and suppliers which it a result of a reduction in the applicable interest rates used to value considers are essential to its business.
The Company has a number of liabilities.
contractual arrangements in support of its business activities.
Whilst the loss of some of these arrangements may cause temporary disruption, The offer of enhanced transfer values to deferred members of the none is considered to be essential in the context of Vesuvius business UK Plan, launched in 2011, was successfully completed in the first as a whole.
In total 550 members took advantage of the scheme and, as a result, longevity and investment risk have been eliminated CHANGE OF CONTROL PROVISIONS in respect of 50m c. 10% of Vesuvius total UK pension liabilities.
The terms of the Groups committed bank facility and US Private On 19 July 2012, the Trustee of the UK Plan and Pension Insurance Placement Loan Notes contain provisions entitling the counterparties Corporation announced that they had signed a pension insurance buyto exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of in agreement covering all of the pensioner members of the UK Plan.
control on takeover of the Company.
A number of other arrangements This eliminates inflation, interest rate, investment and longevity risk in to which the Company and its subsidiaries are party, such as other respect of around 60% of Vesuvius total UK pension liabilities.
Both debt arrangements and share incentive plans, may alter or terminate the enhanced transfer offer and pensioner insurance buy-in are further on a change of control in the event of a takeover.
In the context of the steps in the ongoing strategy of fide-risking the Groups defined benefit Group as a whole, these other arrangements are not considered to be pension arrangements.
Current active employees in the UK are offered membership of a POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS defined contribution plan, which is operated on a contract basis, with On 27 March 2013, the Group announced that it had entered into an oversight by a governance committee.
agreement with Heimerle Meule GmbH, a subsidiary of L. Possehl & Co, mbH Possehl to sell the European Precious Metals Processing All US retirement plan assets are held in trust for the exclusive benefit business for a consideration of euro56.8m.
The cash consideration will of plan participants and their beneficiaries.
An independent financial be subject to closing balance sheet adjustments.
Completion, which institution acts as the Trustee.
The trust assets are protected by law is expected by the end of the first half of 2013, will be subject to and by Federal Government Regulation and are subject to annual audit conditions including approval by the European Commission and by the by an independent accountant, the Internal Revenue Service and the Supervisory Board of Possehl.
Further details of pension arrangements are given in note 31.
In 2012, 67% of the deferred pensioners in the US defined DEMERGER AND SHARE CAPITAL benefit pension plan accepted an offer of a lump sum payment in During the fourth quarter of 2012 Cookson Group plc demerged into full and final settlement of the Groups pension liability to them, thus two new businesses, Vesuvius plc and Alent plc.
Vesuvius plc, which eliminating all future risks relating to these liabilities.
became the new holding company of Cookson Group the Engineered Ceramics and Precious Metals Processing divisions, and Alent plc, DONATIONS which became the new holding company of the Performance Materials No donations were made by the Company in the UK for charitable division.
This resulted in Cookson shareholders holding shares in these purposes in 2012.
In accordance with Company policy, no political two new listed companies, on the basis of one Vesuvius share and one donations were made in 2012.
Alent share for each Cookson Share that they held.
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 96 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Governance The demerger was effected through the following steps: APPORTIONMENT OF TAX BASE COST OF COOKSON GROUP PLC SHARES BETWEEN ALENT PLC SHARES AND VESUVIUS PLC SHARES a.
Prior to the demerger, Cookson Group underwent a reorganisation Based on the share prices of Alent plc and Vesuvius plc on 19 December which involved, amongst other things, the transfer of the various 2012, a shareholders base cost in Cookson Group plc shares for UK Cookson Group subsidiaries which held the Performance Materials capital gains tax purposes, and also for US federal income tax purposes, division business to a single holding company, Alent Investments will be allocated 48.87% to Alent plc and 51.13% to Vesuvius plc.
Alent Investments Limited was subsequently transferred shareholders are referred to IRS Form 8937 for more information.
to Alent plc as part of the Vesuvius capital reduction, as further described below.
A Scheme of Arrangement was then effected.
This resulted in a Vesuvius operates a number of share-based incentive plans which have new holding company, Vesuvius plc, being inserted as the holding been carried over from Cookson Group plc further details about these company of Cookson Group.
Cookson shareholders received one are given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
For the majority of Vesuvius share in respect of each Cookson share held by them these plans the Group can satisfy entitlements either by the acquisition at the Scheme Record Time.
Vesuvius shares were admitted to of existing shares or by the issue of new shares.
Existing shares are the premium listing segment of the Official List and to trading on held in an employee share ownership trust ESOP.
The trustee of the the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities at ESOP purchases shares in the open market as required, to enable the 8.00am on 17 December 2012.
Group to meet liabilities for the provision of existing shares to satisfy c. Following the Scheme becoming effective, Vesuvius plc effected awards that vest.
The trustee does not register votes in respect of these a reduction and repayment of capital in order to implement the shares and has waived the right to receive any dividends.
The repayment of capital was satisfied by the transfer of Alent Investments Limited, the holding company of the In 2012 the trustee purchased 2.7 million 1 ordinary shares in Performance Materials division, to Alent plc.
In consideration for Cookson Group plc with a nominal value of 2.7m at a cash cost of such transfer, Alent plc allotted and issued to Vesuvius shareholders 17.9m, and was allotted a further million 1.9 ordinary shares at a one Alent share for each Vesuvius share held at the Demerger nominal value cost of 1.9m to satisfy the actual and potential vesting Record Time.
Alent shares were admitted to the premium listing of awards under the Groups share-based payment plans see note 10 segment of the Official List and to trading on the London Stock to the Company financial statements.
Exchanges main market for listed securities at 8.00am on 19 December 2012.
Adjustments were made to outstanding share-based incentives as appropriate following the demerger of Cookson Group, including to the Prior to the demerger, the share capital of Vesuvius plc consisted of one number of shares granted under options and awards and any relevant ordinary share with a par value of 1 the subscriber share and 50,000 performance conditions.
Such adjustments were made in accordance Redeemable Preference Shares of 1 each.
As part of the demerger, with the rules of the relevant plans.
Participants in the Cookson Vesuvius plc issued 278,448,752 Vesuvius shares, credited as fully Group Executive Share Option Scheme were notified in February 2013 paid, to Cookson shareholders on the basis of one Vesuvius Share for that, under the rules of this scheme, they had one month in which to every Cookson Share held at the scheme record date.
The one Vesuvius exercise their outstanding options following the demerger.
The Cookson Subscriber Share of 1 was then converted into a Vesuvius Deferred shares that they acquired were compulsorily exchanged for Vesuvius Share of 1. shares pursuant to a new article which was incorporated into the articles of association of Cookson Group plc as part of the demerger.
As at the date of this report, the Company had an issued share capital The number of Vesuvius shares which they acquired was increased to of 278,485,071 ordinary shares of 10p each, being the total number reflect the fact that they were not able to acquire any Alent shares.
of Vesuvius plc shares with voting rights.
The Company also has one 36,319 ordinary shares in Vesuvius plc have been issued since the yearDeferred Share of 1 and 50,000 Redeemable Preference Shares in issue.
end in relation to the exercise of options granted under the Cookson Group plc share option schemes.
Further information relating to the Companys issued share capital can be found in note 7 to the Company financial statements.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys Resolutions giving the Directors the authority to allot further shares and current Articles of Association Articles and applicable English law make allotments of shares to persons other than existing shareholders concerning companies the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act.
in certain circumstances will be proposed at the AGM.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted if further information is required.
com Stock Code: VSVS 97 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Directors report continued AUTHORITY FOR PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES described in Rule 12g3-2 a 1 of the US Securities Exchange Act of Subject to the provisions of Company law and any other applicable 1934 a US Holder to a person who is a US Holder provided that regulations, the Company may purchase its own shares.
At the General such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent Meeting of the Company held on 31 October 2012 the initial Vesuvius dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and shareholder gave authority to the Company to make market purchases of up proper basis.
to 27,835,743 Vesuvius ordinary shares, representing 10% of the Companys expected issued ordinary share capital immediately after the Demerger.
As at The Directors may also decline to recognise any allotment or transfer of the date of this report, the Company has made no such purchases under this shares whether fully paid or not which is in favour of more than four authority.
The Directors believe it advisable to seek renewal of this authority joint holders.
If the Directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer, at the forthcoming AGM.
The Companys Articles specify that, subject to the they must within two months after the date on which a the letter of authorisation of an appropriate resolution passed by a general meeting of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company: or b the operator the Company, Directors can allot relevant securities under Section 551 of instruction was received by the Company in the case of shares held the Companies Act, up to the aggregate nominal amount specified by that in uncertificated form, send to the allottee or transferee notice of the Act.
In addition, the Articles state that the Directors can seek the authority refusal.
of shareholders in general meeting to allot equity securities for cash without first being required to offer such shares to existing ordinary shareholders in The Articles contain certain restrictions on the number of US persons proportion to their existing holdings in connection with a rights issue and who hold shares in the Company so as to prevent the Company from in other circumstances up to an aggregate nominal amount as specified in having obligations under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Section 561 of the Companies Act.
VOTING RIGHTS TRANSFER OF SHARES Subject to the Companys Articles generally and to any special rights or All transfers of shares which are in certificated form may be effected by restrictions attached to any class of shares, at a general meeting, every transfer in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form shareholder who is present in person and every duly appointed proxy acceptable to the Directors and may be under hand only.
The instrument has one vote on a show of hands, and on a poll every shareholder who of transfer must be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and except is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share in the case of fully paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The of which he is the holder.
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at a transferor will remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name general meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise all or of the transferee is entered in the register of members.
any of his rights to attend and speak and vote in his place.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting Uncertificated shares may be transferred in accordance with the provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to Uncertificated Securities Regulations 1995, transfers being effected by a different share or shares held by the shareholder.
Proxies need not be means of a Relevant System as defined in such Regulations.
For the purposes of determining which persons are entitled to attend or vote at a meeting and how many votes The Directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer, such person may cast, the Company may specify in the notice of the relating to shares in certificated form, which is: meeting a time, not more than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting, by which a person must be entered on the register of members i. not in respect of only one class of shares: or in order to be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting.
not lodged duly stamped if required at the place where Vesuvius plcs register is located accompanied by the relevant No shareholder will, unless the Directors otherwise determine, be share certificate s, and such other evidence as the Directors may entitled in respect of any share held by him, to vote either personally or reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the by proxy at a general meeting, or to exercise any other right conferred transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some by membership in relation to general meetings, if any call, or other other person on his behalf, the authority of that person so to sum presently payable by him to the Company in respect of that share, do.
In the case of a transfer by a recognised clearing house, or remains unpaid: or he, or any person who appears to be interested by a nominee of a recognised clearing house or of a recognised in the shares held by him, has been served with a notice pursuant to investment exchange, the lodgement of share certificates will only section 793 of the Companies Act, and is in default for the prescribed be necessary if and to the extent that certificates have been issued period.
In the case of joint holders of shares, only the vote of the in respect of the shares in question.
senior holder who votes and any proxies duly authorised by him may be counted.
For this purpose, the senior holder of a share shall be The Directors may also, in the case of shares in certificated form, in determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders stand their absolute discretion refuse to register any transfer of shares not in the register of members.
being fully paid shares or, broadly, shares which are being transferred from a person resident in the US holding the shares in any manner Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 98 21796-04 2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3 Governance RESTRICTIONS ON SHARES may be appointed by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of dividends or other appointed by the Board must retire from office at the first AGM after moneys payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person with his appointment.
A Director who retires in this way is then eligible for 0.25% interest or more if such person has been served with a notice after reappointment.
The Board may appoint one or more Directors to any failure to provide the Company with information concerning interest in executive office, on such terms and for such period as it thinks fit and it those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
can also terminate or vary such an appointment at any time.
The Articles specify that at every AGM, any Director who has been appointed by the VARIATION OF RIGHTS Vesuvius Board since the last AGM, any Director who held office at the Whenever the share capital of Vesuvius plc is divided into different time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either of classes of shares, the special rights attached to any class may be varied them, and any Director who has been in office, other than holding an or abrogated, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, either a executive position, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the with the consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal date of the meeting shall retire from office.
Any Director who retires at value of the issued shares of that class, or b with the sanction of a an AGM may offer himself for reappointment.
special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every separate meeting, the necessary quorum is AMENDMENT OF ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION two persons holding, or representing by proxy, not less than one-third The Company may make amendments to the Articles of the Company in nominal value of the issued shares of the class but at any adjourned by way of special resolution in accordance with the Companies Act.
meeting any holder of shares of the class present, in person or by proxy, will be a quorum.
Any holder of shares of the class present in person or INTERESTS IN THE COMPANYS SHARES by proxy may demand a poll and every such holder will, on a poll, have The Company has been notified in accordance with DTR 5 of the one vote for every share of the class held by him.
Subject to statute, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests in its issued Articles specify that rights attached to any class of shares may be varied ordinary shares: with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-quarters 31 Dec 2012 Current in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction % % of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the Cevian Capital II G. P. Ltd 20.01 20.01 holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting the Artisan Partners 6.10 7.20 quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least Morgan Stanley 6.01 3 one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class.
5.34 5.34 conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise Pelham Capital Management CFD 5.91 5.91 expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to Standard Life Investments Ltd 4.87 4.87 be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu Lloyds Banking Group plc 4.78 4.78 with them.
BlackRock, Inc 4.46 4.46 Fidelity Investments Ltd 4.20 4.20 RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING Governance for Owners LLP 4.05 3 No shareholder shall, unless the Directors otherwise determine, be entitled in respect of any share held by him or her to vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any The interests of Directors and their connected persons in the ordinary other right conferred by membership in relation to shareholders shares of the Company as disclosed in accordance with the Listing meetings if any call or other sum presently payable by him or her to Rules of the UK Listing Authority are as set out on page 92 and details the Company in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, if of the Directors long-term incentive awards and, where appropriate any shareholder, or any other person appearing to be interested in their deferred share bonus awards, are set out on pages 90 and 91. shares held by such shareholder, has been duly served with a notice to provide the Company with information under Section 793 of the The Directors Report has been approved by the Board and is signed on Companies Act and has failed to do so within 14 days, then unless the its behalf by: Directors otherwise determine the shareholder shall not for so long as the default continues be entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any other right RICHARD MALTHOUSE conferred by membership in relation to shareholders meetings.
Company Secretary 28 March 2013 APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS The Board shall not be fewer than 5 nor more than 15 in number save that the Company may, by ordinary resolution, from time to time vary this minimum and or maximum number of Directors.
