I Corporate Governance Report II Chairmans Introduction III IV The Boards approach to governance begins with the recognition that it is a framework supporting the values and behaviours which define how our company operates.
We do not regard governance as a prescriptive set of rules but a set of principles which should guide behaviour, processes and actions which inspire trust and support the way we do business.
We believe that effective corporate governance consists of a set of actions which ripple from the boardroom to the shopoor.
The Weir Way means we achieve growth by not only doing the right thing strategically but also doing it the right way.
In achieving this, good governance throughout the organisation is clearly very important.
I speak on behalf of all my colleagues on the Board when I describe Weir as having an open culture.
It is a business where, in my experience, all employees feel able to contribute and challenge and a business where the Executive Directors and senior management recognise that this is fundamentally important.
The UK Corporate Governance Code, the principles of which we fully support and under which we report, tasks the Board with providing the leadership necessary to promote the long term success of the Company.
This leadership must be provided within the context of an effective framework of controls and, as Chairman, it is my principal role to provide Board leadership that ensures Board effectiveness.
To do this, I strive to replicate the wider corporate culture at Weir by creating a boardroom culture where all relevant information for decision-making is shared openly.
Each voice around the table is accorded equal weight and contribution and challenge is encouraged.
I hope and believe that we have a Board where nobody is fearful of asking what I call the daft laddie or lassie questions, which can often be those which provide the greatest insights into the problems or opportunities in any business.
Careful thought is put into the balance of the Board, with relevant expertise and diversity being key factors which guide our succession planning.
I believe that we have a Board with considerable skill and experience and that our shareholders are well served by the quality of thought and discussion around the boardroom table.
Our committee chairmen hold themselves to the same high standards.
The key skills and experience of the Board members are outlined later in this section.
In September 2012, the Financial Reporting Council published a new edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code, effective from the Companys next financial year the New Code.
The changes largely relate to Accountability, Part C of the Code, which covers areas such as financial and business reporting, audit committees and auditors.
The intention of the Board is that the Company will fully comply with the changes introduced in the New Code in 2013.
During the year there have been a number of other developments impacting on the Companys present and future disclosure requirements, namely: government changes on narrative reporting: mandatory greenhouse gas reporting: government proposals on executive remuneration: Lord Sharmans proposals on going concern and liquidity risk: and consultation on Internal Control: Guidance to Directors formerly the Turnbull Guidance.
These changes will affect the Groups disclosures and we have attempted to go some way towards reecting these changes in this years Annual Report.
Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 51 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Continued Corporate Governance Code The UK Corporate Governance Code formerly the Combined Code sets out standards of good practice in relation to issues such as board composition and effectiveness, the role of board committees, risk management, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
The UK Corporate Governance Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council from whom paper and downloadable versions can be obtained via its website at www.
For the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012, the Board considers that the Company has complied fully with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code.
This report, in addition to the Remuneration Report, details how the Company has applied the main principles of the Code.
Leadership The role and responsibilities of the Board The names of the current Directors of the Company can be found in the table below.
Their relevant experience and significant appointments are detailed in their biographical information on pages 48 and 49 and in the Board composition section below.
At the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 9 May 2012, Stephen King, Michael Dearden and Alan Mitchelson resigned as Directors of the Company.
Table of the Board of Directors Name Designation Date of appointment Date of most recent re-election Lord Smith Chairman 6 February 2002 9 May 2012 Keith Cochrane Chief Executive 3 July 2006 9 May 2012 Alan Ferguson Non-Executive Director 13 December 2011 9 May 2012 Melanie Gee Non-Executive Director 4 May 2011 9 May 2012 Richard Menell Non-Executive Director 1 April 2009 9 May 2012 John Mogford Non-Executive Director 1 June 2008 9 May 2012 Lord Robertson Non-Executive Director 1 February 2004 9 May 2012 Jon Stanton Finance Director 19 April 2010 9 May 2012 Keith Ruddock was appointed as Company Secretary on 9 May 2012, replacing Alan Mitchelson in this role.
Charles Berry is due to join the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2013.
The Board of Directors has a collective duty to promote the long term success of the Company for its shareholders.
The Board sets the Groups strategy and ensures that the necessary resources are in place to achieve the agreed strategic priorities.
In determining the long term strategy and objectives of the Group, the Board is mindful of its duties and responsibilities not just to shareholders but also to customers, employees and other stakeholders.
It reviews management and financial performance, monitoring the delivery of strategy and achievement of business objectives, and works within a robust framework of internal controls and risk management.
The Board both develops and promotes the collective vision of the Groups purpose, culture, values and behaviours.
Board and Group Executive meeting locations for 2010-2012 2012 2011 2010 Board Board Board Group Exec Group Exec Group Exec 52 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 I II Board composition III Chairman and Chief Executive The Board is chaired by Lord Smith of Kelvin.
The Chairman is responsible for creating the conditions for overall Board and individual Director effectiveness.
He provides leadership, demonstrating the values and behaviours encompassed by the Weir Way.
He also, in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, sets the agenda for the Boards meetings.
IV Keith Cochrane is the Chief Executive and is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Company.
He provides leadership to the Group to successfully plan and execute the objectives and strategy agreed by the Board.
The Chief Executive is supported in his role by the Group Executive and various management committees, known as Excellence Committees.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate with each having clearly dened duties and responsibilities.
Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors help the Executive Directors by contributing independent challenge and rigour to the Boards deliberations and assisting in the development of the Companys strategy.
In addition, they are responsible for monitoring the performance of the Executive Directors against agreed goals and objectives.
Their views are essential in overseeing the performance of the Company and ensuring the integrity of the financial information, controls and risk management processes.
In order to carry out these functions appropriately the Non-Executive Directors meet regularly with senior management and make periodic site visits.
Senior managers are also regularly invited to Board meetings to make business presentations to the Board.
Senior Independent Director Lord Robertson is the Senior Independent Director of the Company, having taken on the role after Mike Deardens retirement on 9 May 2012, and as such works alongside the Chairman and is available to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors if necessary.
He is also available to shareholders if direct contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive or other Executive Directors has failed to resolve the concerns of shareholders or for which such contact is inappropriate.
As Senior Independent Director he also leads the annual review of the performance of the Chairman.
Board meetings During the year the Board scheduled eight meetings, held two additional meetings and also met at the Group conference in Perthshire, Scotland, during April.
In October 2012, the board meeting was held in Fort Worth, Texas, on a board knowledge-gathering visit to our US upstream operations.
More information on this can be found on page 59.
In addition to the formal board meetings, the Board maintains an open dialogue throughout the year and contact by telephone occurs whenever necessary.
The table below details the attendance at board meetings of each of the Directors during their term of ofce for the 52 weeks to 28 December 2012.
Name Attendance Keith Cochrane 10 of 10 1 Michael Dearden 5 of 5 Alan Ferguson 9 of 10 Melanie Gee 10 of 10 1 Stephen King 3 of 5 Richard Menell 10 of 10 1 Alan Mitchelson 5 of 5 John Mogford 10 of 10 Lord Robertson 10 of 10 Lord Smith of Kelvin 10 of 10 Jon Stanton 10 of 10 Note 1.
Michael Dearden, Stephen King and Alan Mitchelson retired from the Board on 9 May 2012.
During the year the Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary, continued the practice of maintaining a rolling 12 month agenda for board and committee meetings.
Agenda items included standing items such as progress reports from the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary, as well as periodic items such as updates from committee Chairmen, a review of the risk register and internal controls, strategy and succession planning.
In this manner, the Chairman and the Board can have confidence that the meetings cover all the matters required to be discussed by them and also allows sufficient time for discussion by the Board of each matter, at the most appropriate meeting in the year, enabling them to discharge effectively their duties as Directors.
Additional meetings can be held throughout the year as business needs arise: with there being two such meetings in 2012.
Directors indemnities The Company has granted indemnities to each of its Directors in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as Directors to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association.
In addition, Directors and ofcers of the Company and its subsidiaries and trustees of its pension schemes are covered by Directors and Ofcers liability insurance.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 53 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Continued Matters reserved for the Board The Board recognises that to ensure the long term success of the Company, certain specic matters should be reserved for the consideration and decision of the Board alone.
Other matters may be delegated by the Board to its committees or executive management.
Decisions specically reserved for approval by the Board are formally recorded in a document Matters Reserved to the Board, and include: annual and interim accounts and financial statements: d ividend policy: board appointments: group strategy and the annual operating budget: changes relating to the Groups capital structure: changes to the Groups management and control structure: major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals: treasury policies: risk management strategy: group corporate governance policy: environmental, health and safety and sustainability policies.
Board committees The Board has established a number of committees to assist in the discharge of its responsibilities.
The principal committees are the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The responsibilities of these board committees are set out in the individual Terms of Reference of each committee, which are available on the Companys website.
The role and responsibilities of the committees are discussed further below.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the committees.
Only the members of each committee are entitled to attend its meetings, although other Directors, professional advisors and members of the senior management team attend when invited to do so.
When the need arises, separate ad hoc committees may be set up by the Board to consider specic issues.
The Nomination Committee Lord Smith, Chairman Current members Name Attendance Lord Smith Chairman Keith Cochrane 3 of 3 1 Keith Cochrane Michael Dearden 2 of 2 2 Richard Menell Richard Menell 1 of 1 Lord Robertson Lord Robertson 3 of 3 Lord Smith 3 of 3 Notes 1.
Michael Dearden retired from the Committee on 9 May 2012.
Richard Menell was appointed to the Committee on 14 June 2012.
The Nomination Committee consists of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and two of the Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Lord Smith, except when the matters under consideration relate to him or his position.
Similarly, should a matter under discussion relate to any of the other Committee members they would excuse themselves from the meeting.
Michael Dearden resigned as a member of the Committee on 9 May 2012 and has been replaced by Richard Menell.
The Company considers that the composition of the Committee is in accordance with the Code.
Senior members of management and advisors are invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
The Committee has responsibility for considering the size, structure and composition of the Board of the Company, for reviewing senior management succession plans, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors and making appropriate recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board.
The Committee has established a process for Board appointments that it considers to be formal, rigorous and transparent and involves the use of external executive recruitment agencies.
This process includes drawing up a description of the role and capabilities required for the particular appointment together with a review of the skills, knowledge and experience of the existing Directors.
The existing balance of the Board and the time commitment required are also taken into consideration when assessing candidates.
54 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 I II III The Audit Committee IV Alan Ferguson, Chairman Current members Name Attendance Alan Ferguson Chairman Alan Ferguson 3 of 3 Melanie Gee Melanie Gee 3 of 3 1 John Mogford Stephen King 2 of 2 John Mogford 3 of 3 Audit Committee attendees Lord Smith Group Chairman Attends by invitation Keith Cochrane Chief Executive Attends by invitation Jon Stanton Group Finance Director Attends by invitation Keith Ruddock Group Counsel & Company Secretary Attends as secretary to the Committee Lindsay Dixon Group Financial Controller Attends by invitation Sarah Caldwell Head of Internal Audit Attends by invitation Ernst & Young Attends as auditor to the Group 1.
Stephen King retired from the Committee on 9 May 2012.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Alan Ferguson and consists of three members.
Stephen King retired as a member of the Committee on 9 May 2012.
All the members of the Audit Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Alan Ferguson was previously Chief Financial officer of Lonmin plc and Group Finance Director with BOC Group plc and Inchcape plc and as such is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Each of the other Non-Executive Directors on the Committee has, through their other business activities, significant experience in financial matters.
As detailed above, the Group Chairman, senior members of management and advisors are invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
The Committee meets according to the requirements of the Companys financial calendar.
There have been three meetings in the period ended 28 December 2012.
At least one meeting a year, or for part of one meeting each year, the Audit Committee meets with the internal and external auditors without any executive management present.
This provides the opportunity for any issues of concern to be raised with the auditors.
The Committee has the ability to call on Group employees to assist in its work and to obtain any information required from Executive Directors in order to carry out its roles and duties.
The Committee is also able to obtain outside legal or independent professional advice if required.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of the Interim Report and Annual Report and Financial Statements and for reviewing the scope and findings of the audit.
In particular, it reviews the judgements and estimates with the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements which include, but are not limited to, accounting for acquisitions, the impairment testing of intangible assets, retirement benefit obligations, the effective tax rate and tax provisioning, other provisions and exceptional items.
Further details of the judgements and estimates are set out in the Financial Review on page 36.
The Committee reviews and approves the internal audit functions remit and ensures there are the necessary resources and access to information available in order for it to full its mandate.
The Committee assists the Board in achieving its obligations under the Code in areas of risk management and internal control, focusing particularly on compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Rules, and ensures that an effective system of internal financial and non-financial controls is maintained.
The Committees role with regard to risk is to look at the process in formulating the risk matrix and the assurance provided around mitigating factors.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual Report and Financial Statements remains with the Board.
The Committee maintains a policy on the appointment and role of the auditor, as well as reviewing their independence, effectiveness and remuneration, details of which can be found in the Accountability section on page 60.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 55 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Continued The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee, outlining the main role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are available to view and download on the Companys website.
In the course of 2012, the Committee discussed the following matters: the Annual Report and Financial Statements, the Interim Report and interim management statements, any significant audit issues, accounting policies and financial reporting issues and judgements identied by the Finance Director and the auditors: the Annual Report disclosures relevant to the Committee, including the going concern statement and the reports on risk management and internal control: the 2011 internal audit report and the internal audit scope and approach for 2012: the Group accounting policies: the Groups risk process and the results of the compliance scorecard: the audit planning, independence, performance and fees for Ernst & Young LLP for 2012: the anti-bribery and corruption assurance framework: non-audit fee policy and fees for Ernst & Young LLP: the Audit Committee Terms of Reference.
The Remuneration Committee Melanie Gee, Chairman Current members Name Attendance 1 Melanie Gee Chairman Michael Dearden 2 of 2 2 Lord Robertson Melanie Gee 3 of 3 Richard Menell Lord Robertson 5 of 5 Richard Menell 5 of 5 Remuneration Committee attendees Lord Smith Group Chairman Attends by invitation Keith Cochrane Chief Executive Attends by invitation Keith Ruddock Group Counsel & Company Secretary Attends as secretary to the Committee Pauline Lafferty HR Director Attends by invitation Notes 1.
Melanie Gee was appointed to the Committee on 9 May 2012.
Melanie Gee joined the Committee as Chairman on 9 May 2012, replacing Michael Dearden who retired as a Director at the 2012 AGM.
There were five meetings held during the 52 weeks to 28 December 2012, and the attendance of the individual members of the Committee is detailed in the table above.
All members of the Remuneration Committee are considered to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
Executive Directors and senior management attend committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest, other than as a shareholder, in the matters decided by the Committee.
The Committee determines, within agreed terms of reference, specic remuneration packages for each of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and Company Secretary of the Company and the other members of the Group Executive.
This includes implementation of Group share incentive plans.
In accordance with the Committees terms of reference, no Director may participate in discussions relating to their own terms and conditions of service or remuneration.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website.
Further information on the activities of the Committee is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 80.
A resolution to approve the Remuneration Report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
56 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 I II General Administration Committee III The General Administration Committee is a sub-committee of the Board which comprises any two Directors of the Company, at least one of whom must be an Executive Director.
The principal duties of the Committee include attending to administrative and procedural matters in relation to existing bank and finance facilities and the issue and allotment of shares under Group share plans.
It also attends to other matters of a routine manner relating to the Companys share capital, including the administration of unclaimed dividends and the Companys IV Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
The Committee is responsible to the Board as a whole and meets as required.
Group Executive The Group Executive comprises the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the General Counsel and Company Secretary, the three Divisional Managing Directors, the Director of Operations Support and Development and the HR Director.
Biographical details of the members of the Group Executive can be found on page 50.
The Group Executive is chaired by the Chief Executive, Keith Cochrane.
In the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012, the Group Executive met 12 times.
The Group Executive is responsible for ensuring that each of the Groups businesses is managed effectively and that the key performance indicators of the Group, as approved by the Board, are achieved.
The Group Executives role includes the preparation of the Group budget for approval by the Board, management of business performance to achieve the Group budget, establishing and maintaining reporting systems which provide clear and consistent information on all aspects of business performance, managing and minimising corporate risk, and ensuring that the necessary mechanisms are in place to achieve effective inter-divisional coordination in areas such as purchasing, branding and career development planning.
It also approves major items of capital expenditure within limits authorised by the Board.
Management committees In addition to the above committees, several management committees have been created to deal with specic areas and to which the Executive Directors can further delegate their responsibilities.
These Excellence Committees have clearly dened remits and work across the Group promoting best practice.
They report to the Group Executive and to the Board as required.
The diagram below illustrates the management structure within the business.
Board and committee structure Board committees Board of Directors General Administration Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Committee Chief Executive Management committees Group Executive Engineering Manufacturing EHS Purchasing Finance Risk HR Excellence IT Excellence Excellence Excellence Excellence Excellence Excellence Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee The matters reserved for the Board, terms of reference and delegated authority matrices combine to create a clear authority matrix across the Group for timely and effective decision-making.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 57 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Continued Effectiveness Board composition Between the start of the period and 9 May 2012, the Board comprised three Executive Directors, the Chairman and seven independent Non-Executive Directors.
Since this date, the number of Executive Directors on the Board reduced to two and the number of independent Non-Executive Directors reduced to five with an additional Non-Executive Director due to be appointed on 1 March 2013.
The key skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board is as follows: Skills and experience Banking & Independence Executive Finance Governance International Leadership Mining Oil & Gas Power Lord Smith XXXX X Keith Cochrane XX XX Alan Ferguson XXXX Melanie Gee XXX X Richard Menell XXXX John Mogford X XXX XX Lord Robertson X XXX Jon Stanton XX X The Board considers that it has the right combination of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to be useful and effective in meeting the needs of the business.
More than half of the Board are independent Non-Executive Directors.
All the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement.
This combination of individuals and skills ensures that the Board is sufciently balanced such that no individual or group of individuals can dominate decision-making and allows for an effective division of responsibilities within the Board and its committees.
The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive are held separately.
Each Director devotes sufficient time and attention as is necessary in order to perform their duties.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with the appropriate information to enable it to discharge its duties and any further back-up papers and information are readily available to all Directors on request to the Company Secretary.
The Chairman ensures that Non-Executive Directors are properly briefed on any issues arising at board meetings and Non-Executive Directors have access to the Chairman at any time.
Diversity The Board considers itself diverse in terms of the background and experience each individual member brings to the Board.
To maintain this, the considerations to be taken into account in each appointment to the Board are stipulated in the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee which are available on the Companys website.
Specically, the Nomination Committee must consider candidates on merit and against objective criteria, and with due regard for the benets of diversity on the Board, including gender in identifying and recommending candidates.
Currently one member of the Board is female.
This appointment was made on the basis that Melanie Gee was the best-qualied candidate to provide the Board with the necessary support and expertise in corporate finance, international financial markets and banking.
In the absence of binding regulation, the Nomination Committee will continue to recommend appointments to the Board based on the existing balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, on the merits and capabilities of the nominee and on the time they are able to devote to the role in order to promote the success of the Company.
58 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 I II Induction and ongoing training III When a new Director joins the company he or she is provided with information on the Groups structure, operations, policies and other relevant documentation.
New Directors are able to attend the Groups induction programme which provides an insight into the Groups key processes and controls.
In addition, the Board meets once a year at one of the Groups manufacturing sites, which includes presentations from key senior employees and the opportunity to meet employees across the global operations.
Directors are informed of relevant material IV changes to laws and regulations affecting the Groups business and their duties as Directors.
The Company Secretary advises the Board on governance matters and is available to all Directors for advice as required.
Additional induction and training is also available to new committee members as required.
FACT-FINDING TRIPS As part of the continued development of the Board of Directors, As a relatively new Board one board meeting each year is held in tandem with a site visit member, seeing the business to one of the Groups operations, usually outside of the UK.
In October 2012, the Board meeting was held in Fort Worth, Texas.
operations first-hand was The Board visited the Weir SPM facilities, receiving a tour of invaluable in developing a greater both the plant and the new head ofce building which was under construction at the time.
They had the opportunity to meet with understanding of the Company.
Weir SPM staff during their visit.
The Board also visited a frac site to see how Weir equipment is used in customer operations.
Alan Ferguson Non-Executive Director During its two day visit, the Board received presentations from senior US based managers on the Oil & Gas business in the US, as well as updates on the recent acquisitions of Novatech and Seaboard.
The Group Executive members joined the Board on the site visits and were also able to attend the various updates and presentations over the course of the two days.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 59 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Continued Directors and their other interests Under the Companies Act 2006, a Director of a company must avoid a situation in which he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conicts, or may possibly conict, with the interests of the company.
The Company has a formal procedure in place to manage the disclosure, consideration and, if appropriate, the authorisation of any such possible conict.
Each Director is aware of the requirement to notify the Board, via the Company Secretary, as soon as they become aware of any possible future conict or a material change to an existing authorisation.
Upon receipt of any such notication, the Board, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, will consider the situation before deciding whether to approve the perceived conict.
Only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision and Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Director in question will then be notied of the outcome.
The Executive Directors have contracts of service with one years notice, whilst Non-Executive Directors appointments can be terminated at any time with six months notice.
The letters of appointment of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, which are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce, set out the required commitment to the Company.
None of the Non-Executive Directors have any material business or other relationship with the Company or its management.
Details of the Directors service contracts, emoluments, the interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company and options to subscribe for shares in the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report.
Board evaluation In 2011, the Board engaged  LLP PwC to facilitate the external evaluation of the Board via a series of one-to-one interviews with each individual Director.
Their findings were reported to the Board in January 2012.
The collated information was reviewed by the Board and the appropriate committee, and overall it was concluded that the performance of the Board as a whole, its principal committees and individual Directors was such that each Director performs at the optimum level for the benefit of the Company.
Recommendations provided in the review were followed up by the Chairman throughout the course of 2012.
Following external reviews in both 2010 and 2011, it was considered appropriate that the Board evaluation would be conducted in-house in 2012.
This was facilitated through the completion of questionnaires which focused on areas such as the role and composition of the Board, the content and process of meetings and the roles of the committees.
In addition, the Chairman conducted individual discussions with each Non-Executive Director.
The Chairman conducted the process, assisted by the Company Secretary.
As is customary, Lord Robertson as Senior Independent Director oversaw the review of the Chairman.
The overall responses generally reected a very high level of satisfaction with the current working of the Board and its committees.
The Board considered the evaluation at its January 2013 meeting and has decided to consider allotting additional time to certain areas to improve its effectiveness further.
In particular, the Board may apply additional focus to reviewing talent development and related trends across the Company, and in considering risk and strategy matters in even more depth.
In line with the Code, the Board intends to undertake another externally facilitated evaluation within the next two years.
Re-election All Directors on the Board at 28 December 2012 will seek re-election at the Companys AGM on 1 May 2013 in compliance with the Code.
Following his appointment to the Board on 1 March 2013, Charles Berry will retire and seek election as a Director of the Company at the AGM.
Accountability As previously detailed, the Board has an established Audit Committee.
Further information on the Committee and its roles and responsibilities can be found on page 55.
Auditors The Audit Committee maintains a policy on the appointment and role of the auditors.
This includes keeping under review the auditors independence by providing guidelines on any non-audit services that are to be provided by the auditors.
The auditors confirm their independence at least annually.
A formal policy exists which ensures that the nature of the advice to be provided could not impair the objectivity of the auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements.
This policy was made more robust during the period and only allows the auditors to be engaged for non-audit services subject to Committee approval being obtained prior to any such appointment where the expected cost of non-audit services provided by the appointed external auditors is in excess of 75,000.
Non-audit fee work conducted by Ernst & Young LLP over the past year for assurance services amounted to 15% of the total fees including audit fees.
The Committee considers that the level and nature of non-audit work does not compromise the independence of the external auditors.
Fees payable to Ernst & Young LLP in respect of audit and assurance services of 1.7m 2011: 1.8m in respect of 2012 were approved by the Audit Committee.
60 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 I II During 2011, the Committee conducted an in depth review of the performance of the external auditors which considered, inter alia, the team, III the scope of the audit and overall value for money provided.
One output from this review was the introduction of a second Group audit partner who was in post for the 2011 year end reporting cycle and provided continuity at a senior level following rotation of the lead audit partner at the end of their five year period in post.
IV In accordance with applicable ethical and professional standards, the external auditors are required to periodically rotate partners at a Group, divisional or country level in order to maintain their independence and objectivity with the lead partner required to rotate every five years.
Following a review of the selection of the new lead partner in 2011, a new lead partner was appointed in 2012 for a term of five years.
Having considered the relationship with the independent auditor, their qualication, expertise, resources and effectiveness, in particular noting the rotation of audit partner during the period, the Committee concluded that the external auditors remain independent and effective and recommended to the Board that Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as the Companys external auditors for 2013.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditors and the Committee also keeps under review the value for money of the audit.
A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as dened by section 481 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each of the Directors has taken all of the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Internal control and risk management The Groups high level approach to managing risk and the key risks to delivery of its strategy are set out on pages 42 to 45.
The key roles and responsibilities for risk management are set out below.
Risk management responsibilities Board Overall responsibility for the Groups risk management and internal Annual review of the effectiveness of the risk management and control frameworks, and strategic decisions within the Group.
Review of risks which have the potential to impact the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Audit Committee Delegated responsibility from the Board to review the effectiveness Annual assessment of the effectiveness of the risk management of the Groups risk and internal control frameworks.
Review of reports from the internal and external audit teams.
Review of the results from the six-monthly self-assessment compliance scorecards.
Risk Committee Executive committee responsible for governance of the Groups Review of the design and operation of the Group Risk Management Risk Management Policy and Framework.
Identication and assessment of the key risks facing the Group, identication of the key controls mitigating those risks, and identication of further actions where necessary.
Review of the Divisional Risk Dashboards considering the appropriateness of managements responses to identied risks, and assessing whether there are any gaps.
Reporting key Group and divisional risks to the Board.
Group Executive Executive committee with overall responsibility for managing Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery the Group to ensure we achieve our strategic objectives.
of the Groups strategic objectives.
Monitoring business performance, in particular key performance indicators relating to strategic objectives.
Taking strategic decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Escalating issues to the Board as required.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 61 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Continued Risk management responsibilities Excellence Committees Engineering Monitoring the management of key risks across the Group Environment, Health & Safety associated with the respective remits of the Excellence Committees.
Finance Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, HR policies and standards related to the respective remits of the IT Excellence Committees.
Manufacturing Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Purchasing Escalating issues to the Group Executive as required.
Executive committees with representatives from across the Group Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities.
in the respective areas of focus.
The committees govern activities and performance in the respective areas of focus.
Divisional management Responsible for managing the businesses within the divisions Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery to ensure divisional strategic objectives are achieved and there of the divisions strategic objectives.
is compliance with Group policies and standards throughout Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, their division.
policies and standards within the divisions with regard to the outputs from the Excellence Committees.
Escalating issues to the Group Executive as required.
Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities.
Operating company management Responsible for ensuring company objectives are achieved Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery and business activities are conducted in accordance with of their companys strategic objectives.
Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, policies and standards within their company.
Escalating issues to divisional management and Excellence Committees as required.
Internal control In accordance with Internal Control: Guidance to Directors formally known as the Turnbull Guidance the Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks through an internal control framework.
This process has been in place throughout 2012.
More information can be found on risk management on page 42.
Our internal control framework has four key layers: Frontline and functional controls This includes a wide spectrum of controls as seen in most organisations, including, for example, standard operating procedures and policies: a comprehensive financial planning and reporting system, including quarterly forecasting: regular performance appraisal and training for employees: restricted access to financial systems and data: delegated authority matrices for review and approval of key transactions: protective clothing and equipment to protect our people from harm: IT and data security controls: business continuity planning: and assessment procedures for potential new recruits.
Monitoring and oversight controls There is a clearly dened organisational structure within which roles and responsibilities are articulated.
There are monitoring controls at operating company, regional, divisional and Group level, including standard key performance indicators, with action plans to address underperforming areas.
A compliance scorecard self-assessment is completed and reported by all operating companies twice per annum.
The scorecard assesses compliance with Group policies and procedures.
Financial monitoring includes comparing actual results with the forecast and prior year position on a monthly and year-to-date basis.
significant variances are highlighted to Directors on a timely basis allowing appropriate action to be taken.
62 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 I II Ethics and cultural environment III We are committed to doing business at all times in an ethical and transparent manner doing it right.
This is supported by the Weir Values which are the core behaviours we expect our people to live by in their working lives.
The Weir Code of Conduct also contributes to our culture, providing a high benchmark by which we expect our business to be conducted.
Any examples of unethical behaviour are dealt with robustly and promptly.
The Ethics section below provides more details on the Groups activities to promote ethical behaviour.
IV Assurance activities We obtain a wide range of assurance to provide comfort to management and the Board that our controls are providing adequate protection from risk and are operating as we would expect.
Sources of assurance include: External Audit, Internal Audit, EHS audits, Intellectual Property audits, IT audits, Procurement audits, and Production System Lean audits.
The various audit teams plan their activities on a risk basis, ensuring resources are directed at the areas of greatest need.
Issues and recommendations to enhance controls are reported to management to ensure timely action can be taken, with oversight provided from the relevant governance committees, including the Audit Committee and the Excellence Committees.
The Groups internal control procedures described in this section do not cover joint venture interests.
We have board representation on each of our joint venture companies where separate, albeit similar, internal control frameworks have been adopted.
Directors statement of responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and the Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state that the Group financial statements have complied with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained: state for the Company financial statements whether the applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Each of the Directors, as at the date of this Report, confirms to the best of his or her knowledge that: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Going concern The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In forming this view, the Directors have reviewed the Groups budgets, plans and cash ow forecasts, including market downturn sensitivities.
In addition, the Directors have considered the potential impact of credit risk and liquidity risk detailed in note 30 to the Group financial statements on pages 127 to 135.
Each of these items has been considered in relation to the Groups banking facilities described on pages 113 and 114.
Ethics The Weir Code of Conduct provides a clear framework for decision-making, highlighting the values and behaviours we expect our people to demonstrate whilst making those decisions.
It provides details on how we expect our people to conduct themselves on a day-to-day basis and guidance on where to go for help.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 63 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Continued The Code of Conduct covers a wide range of topics including anti-bribery and corruption, developing our people, health and safety, use of company property and resources, and conicts of interest.
It is available in numerous languages and has practical examples to assist interpretation.
Regular training is provided on the Code of Conduct to all our people.
A mandatory e-learning programme is aimed at those employees who are deemed to have a higher risk of exposure to bribery and corruption.
The higher risk is as a consequence of their decision-making responsibilities in regard to third parties including customers, suppliers, and sales agents.
Such at risk employees include: the Senior Management Group: Sales and Marketing employees: Purchasing employees: and Finance employees.
The at risk group of employees is also required to complete a quarterly online certication process to confirm that they are in compliance with the Code of Conduct.
Over 2,500 employees completed the e-learning modules rolled out in 2012.
The completion of the e-learning and quarterly online certication is monitored by the Company Secretary.
Topics from the Code of Conduct are built into Town Hall meetings conducted within operating companies across the Group.
These present an opportunity for employees to ask questions, as well as providing real life examples of how the Code of Conduct should be implemented.
In addition, the Code of Conduct is a key topic in the induction training provided to all employees.
The Code of Conduct is also reinforced through communications, for example within: the Group, regional and functional conferences: Senior Management Group training courses such as Leadership Development: and 100 day integration plans for new acquisitions.
Ethical relationships with our suppliers We source raw materials, components and services across the globe.
Our suppliers play a critical role in our business and our relationships with them are based on achieving best performance, product, delivery, service and total cost in an ethical and sustainable manner.
The Group recognises that its responsibilities do not end at our factory doors and that they extend to our supply chain.
We have a Supply Chain Policy which sets out the minimum standards we expect our suppliers to abide by in connection with: how they treat their workforce: legal and regulatory compliance: health and safety: business ethics: and environmental standards.
In addition, the Code of Conduct is issued to our key suppliers.
Assessments are undertaken with regard to compliance with Group standards as part of the vetting process for new suppliers.
We also audit our key suppliers annually to assess ongoing compliance with the Supply Chain Policy and other relevant Group standards.
Wherever possible, we work with our suppliers to support them to address weaknesses identied.
The Weir Group is committed to working only with third parties, including customers, sub-contractors, suppliers and joint venture and strategic alliance partners, whose business ethics and behaviours are consistent with our own Code of Conduct.
Each operating company is responsible for agreeing the business terms and conditions with suppliers, including the terms of payment.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with the agreed terms.
At 28 December 2012, the Group had an average of 68 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
External sales agents The Group engages a number of external sales agents across the globe to act on its behalf in locations where it does not have a permanent sales presence, or in regard to specic projects.
There is a sales agents manual which sets out the Group requirements with regard to appointing and reappointing agents, as well as the ongoing monitoring requirements.
Due diligence is performed prior to all appointments and reappointments by the legal department.
The standard Weir contract must be used, the terms of which include stipulation that agents must comply with the Code of Conduct.
The agents are required to confirm in writing their compliance with the Code of Conduct.
64 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 I II Gifts and hospitality III We recognise that gifts and hospitality have the potential to create a conict of interest, or the perception of a conict of interest.
As a result, there are Group policies with regard to receiving and giving gifts and hospitality from, and to, third parties.
In no circumstances should gifts or hospitality be solicited, and they should not place the recipient under any obligation.
IV All gifts and hospitality above the minimum threshold must be pre-approved using an online gifts and hospitality register.
Internal Audit assesses compliance with the Groups gifts and hospitality policies during audit visits and undertakes monthly reviews of the register.
Reporting issues The Group encourages our people to discuss any ethical concerns they may have with local management or the legal department.
In addition, an independent and condential telephone helpline and an online reporting tool the Weir Ethics Hotline are available for our employees, partners and third parties to call or email with any concerns that they have concerning unethical behaviour.
Calls to the helpline are free and lines are open 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Reports can be made in a wide range of languages reecting our global footprint.
Nineteen reports were submitted and investigated in 2012.
Following suitable investigation, no action was required in ten cases, and the remaining cases were appropriately addressed through further training, policy or communication improvements or disciplinary process.
Subject to condentiality considerations, the outcome of each investigation is provided in so far as is possible, via the Ethics Hotline, to the complainant.
Remuneration Details of the Weir Groups Remuneration Committee can be found on page 56.
Further information on the Committee, along with information on the Groups overall remuneration structure, is contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 80.
Relations with shareholders The Board recognises the importance of establishing and maintaining good relationships with all of the Companys shareholders.
During the period under review, the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Chairman and Remuneration Committee Chairman have met with analysts and institutional shareholders to keep them informed of significant developments and report to the Board accordingly on the views of these stakeholders.
Each of the other Non-Executive Directors is also offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and would do so if requested by any major shareholder.
The Companys investor relations programme includes formal presentations of full year and interim results and meetings with individual investors as appropriate.
Through this programme, the Company has directly engaged with 599 investors in 2012 either face-to-face or via telephone or video-conferencing.
Independent feedback from these meetings is provided to the Board.
The Company Secretary is also charged with bringing to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Companys shareholders, including private investors.
The Interim Report and the Annual Report and Financial Statements are the primary means used by the Board for communicating during the year with all of the Companys shareholders.
The Board also recognises the importance of the internet as a means of communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively and a Group website is maintained to facilitate communications with shareholders.
Information available online includes copies of the full and half year financial statements, press releases and Company news, corporate governance information, key dates in the financial calendar and the terms of reference for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The Board is committed to the constructive use of the Annual General Meeting as a forum to meet with shareholders and to hear their views and answer their questions about the Group and its business.
The 2013 AGM is to be held on Wednesday 1 May 2013 at the Radisson Blu Hotel, Glasgow.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees will be available to answer questions relevant to the work of those Committees.
It is the Companys practice to propose separate resolutions on each substantive issue at the AGM.
The Chairman will advise shareholders on the proxy voting details at the meeting.
Notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and is also available to download from the Companys website.
The Company conducts the vote at the AGM by electronic poll and the result of the votes including proxies is published on the Companys website after the meeting.
Electronic proxy voting is available and details of this are included in the Notice of the AGM.
Keith Ruddock Company Secretary Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board 27 February 2013 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 65
