Audit Committee report Members of the Simon Melliss Chairman Audit Committee Richard Baker Wendy Becker Susan Hooper Susan Taylor Martin Simon Barratt Secretary All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
The Board regards Simon Melliss, with his previous experience as Finance Director at Hammerson plc, to have recent and relevant financial experience as required by the CG Code.
Key duties Monitor, review and report to the Board on the: Full terms of reference financial statements, risk management system and internal controls: and are available on the objectivity and effectiveness of the operational auditors and the external auditor.
Companys website Manage the engagement and review of performance of the external auditor including approval of their remuneration.
Hold meetings with external and operational auditors without management being present.
Assist the Board in fulfilling its corporate governance and oversight responsibilities.
Develop policy on the supply of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Review the adequacy and security of the Companys whistleblowing facilities.
Review the Companys systems and controls for the prevention of bribery.
Audit Committee agenda 2011 12 Quarter 1 Review of effectiveness of internal controls Review of risk matrix Agreed scope of operational audit Review of year end items including draft accounts and an update on tax matters Review of whistleblowing incidents Approval of Audit Committee terms of reference Review of 2010 11 financial statements and auditors report Operational audit report on year-end processes Meeting of Committee with external auditor without executive directors present Quarter 3 Approval of interim results for 2011 12 Interim review of external auditor including review of audit planning report Interim review of operational audit Tax update Meeting of Committee with auditor without executive directors present A statement relating to non-audit work carried out by the auditor is included in the directors report on page 27.
