co. uk Nomination Committee report Members of the Anthony Habgood Chairman Nomination Committee Ian Cheshire Simon Melliss Stephen Williams Simon Barratt Secretary Key duties Review the size, structure and composition of the Board and its committees Full terms of reference are available on the Manage the selection and appointment process for new directors to be Companys website recommended to the Board Agree the recommendation for re-election of directors at the AGM Nomination Committee agenda 2011 12 Quarter 1 Commenced appointment process for two new non-executive directors Review of committee membership Review of terms of reference Review of directors for re-election at the AGM Quarter 2 Final decision on the appointment of two new non-executive directors How does the Company approach the annual None of the non-executive directors has been a re-election of directors?
director for a term longer than six years.
If any nonAs required by the CG Code, all directors will be executive director was to serve for more than six subject to re-election at the next AGM.
The Nomination years, the Nomination Committees policy would be to Committee has reviewed the contribution and scrutinise their role more closely before recommending commitment of each member of the Board and has re-appointment to ensure that the Board remains fresh recommended their re-appointment at this years AGM.
Details setting out why each director is deemed to be suitable for re-appointment will be included with the In accordance with the CG Code, none of the executive AGM papers circulated to all shareholders.
directors has more than one non-executive directorship in a FTSE-100 company or a chairmanship of a FTSE- 100 company.
2011 12 attendance record of Board and Committee members Audit Nomination Remuneration Type of Meeting Board Committee Committee Committee Attendance Attendance Attendance Attendance record record record record Anthony Habgood 11 11 4 4 6 6 Andy Harrison 11 11 Patrick Dempsey 11 11 Christopher Rogers 11 11 Richard Baker 10 11 3 3 6 6 Ian Cheshire 8 11 6 6 Wendy Becker 10 11 3 3 6 6 Simon Melliss 10 11 3 3 4 4 Stephen Williams 9 11 4 4 5 6 Susan Taylor Martin 3 3 Susan Hooper 4 6 Members of the executive team attended committee meetings as appropriate.
Anthony Habgood is not formally a member of the Audit Committee, but attended all three meetings during the year.
Includes one meeting of the Board, which was held at short notice, to approve a major capital project.
The meeting was attended by the Chairman, the three executive directors and Susan Taylor Martin.
The other directors were unable to attend due to prior engagements, but all confirmed their agreement to the project by email.
