Wolseley plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Board of Directors Directors in ofce as at 31 July 2012 Gareth Davis Ian Meakins John Martin Chairman Group Chief Executive Chief Financial officer Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 1 July 2003 and Appointed to the Board on 13 July 2009.
Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2010. became Chairman on 21 January 2011.
Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Broad international board and general Extensive operational and financial management Extensive international board and general management experience in brand, retail and experience.
Mr Martin has significant experience management experience, having served on wholesale distribution management: strategic atcost control, driving productivity, and leading various company boards for many years.
vision and extensive operational leadership.
business expansion projects, acquisitions, disposals, capital efficiency, tax, treasury and Experience Experience compliance activities.
Mr Davis spent 38 years in the tobacco industry Mr Meakins was, until April 2009, Chief Executive and was Chief Executive of Imperial Tobacco ofTravelex Holdings Ltd, the international foreign Experience Group plc from its incorporation in 1996 until exchange and payments business.
Previously he Mr Martin, a chartered accountant, joined the May2010.
was Chief Executive officer of Alliance UniChem Company in February 2010.
He was previously plc until its merger with Boots in July 2006 and apartner at the private equity group Alchemy External appointments prior to that, between 2000 and 2004, was Partners and prior to that was Chief Financial Chairman of William Hill PLC and Chairman of President, European Major Markets and Global officer of Travelex Holdings Ltd and Hays plc, DSSmith Plc, the international packaging Supply for Diageo plc, spending over 12 years thebusiness services group.
with the company in a variety of international hiscareer at Arthur Andersen before joining management positions.
TheStationery Ofce Group, on its privatisation, where he was Group Controller.
External appointments Director of the Impetus Trust and Non Executive External appointments Director of Centrica plc.
Michael Clarke Tessa Bamford Richard Shoylekov Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Group Company Secretary and General Counsel Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 22 March 2011.
Appointed to the Board on 22 March 2011.
Key strengths Key strengths Considerable board and executive management Extensive City experience having held senior Responsibilities experience within global businesses with strong advisory roles in both the UK and USA across Mr Shoylekov, a solicitor, has responsibility finance, marketing and distribution capabilities.
forthe Groups legal affairs, risk management and corporate responsibility programme.
Mr Clarke, a qualied accountant, spent his early Ms Bamford was formerly a Director of Cantos career in South Africa and Hong Kong working for Communications, theonline communications External appointments Deloitte.
He joined Reebok International in 1991 service provider from 2001 to 2011.
and served as Vice President of South Asia shewas a Director of JHenry Schroder & Co Pacic.
Between 1996 and 2008 he held various where she worked for 12years in a number of roles at The Coca-Cola Company including roles between 1986 and 1998.
Prior to that, President of South Pacic and Korea, and MsBamford worked in corporate finance for President of North West Europe and Nordics.
UntilAugust 2011, he was President of Kraft External appointments Foods Europe, headquartered in Zurich.
Non Executive External appointments Director of Barratt Developments plc, a Governor Chief Executive officer of Premier FoodsPlc.
ofthe British Institute of Florence and a member of the board trustees of Jos Cervical Cancer Trust.
Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Frank Roach Andrew Duff Michael Wareing CMG Chief Executive officer, North America Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 16 December 2005.
Appointed to the Board on 1 July 2004.
Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2009.
Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Strong business and operational leadership: Broad knowledge of international business: Comprehensive board and financial management management of subsidiaries and joint ventures.
strategic management and strong customer experience: significant commercial and Business development and wide ranging serviceexperience.
international experience having served in various salesexperience.
Experience Experience Mr Duff spent 16 years at BP plc before he joined Experience Mr Roach is responsible for all the North American National Power in 1998.
In 2000 he was appointed Mr Wareing was International Chief Executive of businesses.
He first joined Ferguson Enterprises to the board of Innogy plc upon its demerger from KPMG from 2005 until he retired in September Inc. in 1976 and has held a number of business National Power and its listing on the LSE.
In 2003 2009, having previously been Chief Executive of roles.
In2005, Mr Roach was appointed as Senior Mr Duff became CEO of npower and a member KPMGs Europe, Middle East and Africa region.
VicePresident of the Wolseley North America ofthe RWE Group Executive Committee.
He was Throughout his career Mr Wareing has been management team, playing a key part in further appointed Non Executive Chairman of RWE closely involved with a number of charities public developing and expanding the Groups North npower until his retirement in December 2010. bodies, including his appointment in 2007 as American businesses.
thePrime Ministers Special Envoy for the reconstruction ofSouthern Iraq and Chairman of External appointments External appointments the Basra Development Commission.
Chairman of Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent previously a Board member of Business in the Water Ltd.
Member of the CBI Presidents Community, CSR 360 and Business Action on committee.
A fellow of the Energy Institute.
Memberof the board of trustees of Macmillan Cancer Support.
Member ofthe board of trustees External appointments ofthe Earth Trust.
Non Executive Director and Chairman of Audit Committee at Cobham plc.
Non Executive Director, Chairman of Audit Committee and SeniorIndependent Director at Intertek Group plc.
Economic Development Adviser tothe Government ofAfghanistan.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Major Announcements Committee Committee Committee Committee Page 75 Page 84 Page 78 Page 79 Gareth Davis p 1 Ian Meakins 1 John Martin p Frank Roach Andrew Duff 1 1 p Michael Wareing 11 p Michael Clarke 111 Tessa Bamford 111 Richard Shoylekov 111 11 Mark Fearon Group Communications and Chairman p Investor Relations Director Member 1 is also a member ofthis Secretary 1 Committee.
Wolseley plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Executive Committee The Executive Committee addresses Current members as at the date of this report operational issues and is responsible I Meakins Group Chief Executive Chairman for implementing Group strategy and policies, day-to-day management S Ashmore Managing Director, UK andmonitoring performance.
T England Group Chief Information officer Additional biographical details for each P Gardies Managing Director, France member of the Committee can be O M Jensen Chief Executive officer, Nordic and CE Region found on the Wolseley plc website atwww.
com J Martin Chief Financial officer B Morrison Group HR Director F Roach Chief Executive officer, North America R Shoylekov Group Company Secretary and General Counsel Ole Mikael Jensen was appointed to the Executive Committee as of 1August 2012 following the retirement ofSteen Weirse.
Ian Meakins Steve Ashmore Tony England Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Broad international board and general Considerable experience of construction materials Extensive international experience in senior IT management experience in brand, retail and distribution sector: strong international operational leadership roles across the pharmaceutical, wholesale distribution management: strategic experience: logistics and supply chain banking and wholesale distribution industries.
Philippe Gardies Ole Mikael Jensen John Martin Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Strong management experience including Strong international operational experience, Extensive operational and financial management inproduction planning and business units, together with financial, construction, distribution experience.
Mr Martin has significant experience especiallyof heavyside, import and timber and sourcing experience.
atcost control, driving productivity, and leading solutions business.
business expansion projects, acquisitions, disposals, capital efficiency, tax, treasury and compliance p activities.
Bob Morrison Frank Roach Richard Shoylekov Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Solid human resources and operations experience Strong business and operational leadership: Extensive management of legal affairs and and executive search rm experience: a strong management of subsidiaries and joint ventures.
corporate governance: development and Leadership Development focus.
Business development and wide ranging implementation of risk management and legal salesexperience.
