Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate and governance structure ofthe Group Where does Wolseley plc carry on Audit Committee business and which rules apply to it?
Chaired by Michael Wareing Wolseley plc is a public company limited by shares and Number of meetings in the year: 4 incorporated in Jersey with registered number 106605.
The Company has a Role of the Committee premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, and is The Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing therefore subject to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing and monitoring the Companys financial statements, Authority.
The Company complies with the provisions accounting processes, audit internal and external, oftheUK Corporate Governance Code the Code controls and matters relating to fraud and whistleblowing andrelevant institutional shareholder guidelines.
It was a decision at the time of redomiciliation in November For more information on the Audit Committee 2010 that, although the Company being Jersey incorporated and the AuditCommittee Report See page 75 is not subject to the UK Companies Act, the Board wished toretain its existing standards of governance and corporate responsibility.
It therefore continues to provide shareholder Remuneration Committee safeguards which are similar to those that apply to a UK Chaired by Andrew Duff registered company.
Number of meetings in the year: 5 Under Wolseley plc, the Wolseley Group carries on its businesses across 18 countries through a number of Role of the Committee operating companies.
The Group is made up of six The Committee review and recommends to the Board geographic regions led by four Chief Executives for: USA the framework and policy for the remuneration of the and Canada, UK, France, and Nordics and Central Europe.
Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Executive They are Executive Committee Members and report directly Committee.
The remuneration of the Non Executive to Ian Meakins.
Directors is determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The Committee takes into account What is Wolseleys governance structure?
the business strategy of the Group and how remuneration See page 63 for a diagram of the governance structure.
policy should reect and support that strategy.
For more information on the Remuneration Committee The Major Announcements Committee is also a Committee andtheRemuneration Committee Report of the Board.
By its nature and as anticipated by its terms See page 84 ofreference, it would usually meet only in exceptional circumstances where information has come to light which isof an unexpected, non-routine, and material nature.
Nominations Committee Therewere no meetings in the year.
Chaired by Gareth Davis Number of meetings in the year: 2 How do we ensure good governance throughoutthe Group?
Role of the Committee The Nominations Committee regularly reviews the Wolseleys Group-wide policies and procedures provide a structure, size and composition of theBoard and its framework for governance and are underpinned by the Committees.
It identies and nominates suitable Groups core values and Code of Conduct.
Through the candidates to be appointed to the Board subject Groups core values we expect and ensure that: toBoard approval and considers succession generally.
We act with integrity For more information on the Nominations Committee See page 78 We value our people We drive for results and improvement The role and activities during the year of the Board and its Committees are set out on the following pages.
Wolseley plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Leadership In addition to the scheduled meetings, two unscheduled Who is on our Board?
meetings were convened at short notice to deal with urgent As at 31 July 2012, the Board was made up of eight members issues that needed to be considered before the next consisting of the Chairman, three Executive Directors and scheduled meeting.
Some of the Directors were unable four Non Executive Directors.
Biographical details for each of toattend these unscheduled meetings due to prior the Directors in ofce as at 31 July 2012 are shown on pages commitments which could not be rearranged.
Karen Witts was appointed as a Non Executive the matters decided at those unscheduled meetings had Director during the financial year, but stepped down from the already been discussed in detail by the full Board at previous Board on 2 July following her appointment as Group Finance meetings.
Of those two unscheduled meetings, the first was Director of Kingsher plc.
attended by Messrs Davis, Meakins and Roach and the second by Messrs Davis, Martin and Meakins.
The Chairman and Non Executive Directors are each considered by the Board to be independent and free of any As noted on page 67, the Company is Jersey registered relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise andremains tax resident in Switzerland.
During the year all of their independent judgement.
meetings of the Board and Committees of the Board were held in Switzerland and all other meetings requiring decisions When and where does the Board meet?
of a strategic or substantive nature were also held outside the United Kingdom.
The Board met regularly during the year, with Board and Committee meetings scheduled over two-day periods.
In order to provide the Board with greater visibility of the Therewere six scheduled meetings and details of Groups operations and exposure to senior management, attendance are shown in the table below.
theBoard intends to visit at least one of the Groups business unit locations each year.
Such visits allow the Membership of the Board as at 31 July 2012 Board to gain a deeper understanding of local market Meeting attended eligible: dynamics and they are able to assess management performance and potential.
1 G Davis 5 6 In January 2012, the Board and Committee meetings were T Bamford 6 6 held near Zurich and provided anopportunity for executives M Clarke 6 6 from Tobler to meet the Board and discuss the business in Switzerland in more detail.
Thiswas followed by a tour of A Duff 6 6 Toblers distribution centre atDniken in central Switzerland.
J Martin 6 6 In addition, members of the Board periodically visit business units and management around the Group.
I Meakins 6 6 F Roach 6 6 Who attends Board meetings?
M Wareing 6 6 Each Director is required to attend all meetings of the Board Members who stepped down in the year or Committees of which they are a member.
Inaddition, 2 senior management from across the Group and advisers K Witts 4 4 attend some of the meetings for the discussion of specic 1 Due to personal circumstances, Mr Davis was unable to attend the March items in greater depth.
This exposure to the members of senior management from 2 Karen Witts was appointed 1 November 2011 and stepped down on 2 July across the business has been of vital importance to the 2012.
She attended all meetings which she was eligible to attend.
It has further enhanced their understanding of the business, the implementation of strategy and the changing dynamics of the market in which the business unitsoperate.
Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 How does the Board operate and how are What has our Board done during the year?
The Board had an agenda programme which ensured that items relating to strategy, finance, operations, corporate Certain strategic decision-making powers and authorities governance and compliance were covered in its meetings.
ofthe Company are reserved as matters for the Board.
Theformal schedule of matters reserved for its decision Having identied the areas which the Board focused on wasupdated during the year to incorporate provisions during the year, set out below are some highlights of its relating todiversity for both Board and senior appointments.
This is not an exhaustive list but provides some Theprincipal matters reserved for the Board are set out in keyhighlights.
Day-to-day operational decisions are managed by the Executive Committee, led by Ian Meakins.
Strategy The Board continued its discussion of the evolution of the Setting the overall strategic direction and oversight of the Companys strategy and business models at each meeting.
management of Wolseley Group In addition, a full strategy review was undertaken through a dedicated Board Strategy Day in May 2012.
Management Approval of major changes to the Wolseley Groups from all Clusters presented their proposals for the strategic corporate structure development of their businesses and there was detailed analysis of some specic future initiatives.
More information Recommending or declaring dividends on our strategy can be found on pages 8 to 11.
Approval of the Group and Company financial statements Operations Maintaining sound systems of internal controls and At least once in each year, the Board will review in detail riskmanagement theoperational performance of each region.
Every Board meeting features a discussion of a specic Approval of tax and treasury items and policy outside the operational example of best practice that has been remit of the Treasury Committee developed and shared amongst the businesses.
Theseexamples are chosen from matters discussed by Approval of major corporate transactions and senior management representatives on regular webinars, commitments ledby IanMeakins.
Items covered during the year included employment practices, pricing strategies, gross margin Succession planning and appointments to the Board improvements and best use oftechnology.
Allinformation andsenior management isreadily available to seniormanagers across the Group throughacentrally maintained portal.
Determining and setting Board and senior  People Review of the Groups overall corporate governance There was continued focus on the composition and arrangements and reviewing the performance of the Board succession of the Board, Executive Committee and senior and its Committees annually management team.
In March 2012, the Board reviewed the leadership roles across the Group with the Group HR Approval of the delegation of authority between the Director as part of its regular review process.
The Board Chairman and the Group Chief Executive and the terms of believes the talent and succession planning processes to be reference of all Committees of the Board of a high standard and are familiar with the plans across the leadership team.
As noted in the Chairmans foreword on Approval of all key policies, including the Code of Conduct, page 62, there is further work to be done in this area during Health and Safety and Environmental policies the coming year.
Where appropriate, matters are delegated to a Committee Finance which will consider them in accordance with its terms The Board regularly monitored the Groups financial ofreference.
Details of each Committees terms of performance.
All financial statements to the market were referenceare available on the Wolseley plc website at discussed and reviewed.
com and approved at the July2012 meeting.
Wolseley plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Leadership continued What are the Boards priorities Why should you vote to re-elect for 2012 13?
The Boards priorities for the year lie in the following areas: The Board contains a broad range of experience and skills from a variety of industries and advisory roles, which fully 2012 13 Objectives complement each other and will be strengthened through Strategy Strategy to be rened regularly and further appointments over the next year.
to incorporate details of the external As noted on page 71, all the Directors including the landscape.
Chairman continue to allocate sufficient time to discharge Annual strategy review.
their duties and are fully committed to their roles.
7.1 of the UK Corporate People and Regular progress review to include Governance Code, all Directors will stand for re-election at Succession succession planning ofthe Board, the 2012 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Full biographies Planning Executive Committee and leadership for the Directors can befound on pages 64 and 65 and in teamsin all the regions.
Implement succession plan for Remuneration Committee Chairman Accountability Senior Independent Director due to step down in 2013.
How does the Board approach risk Appointment of at least one other management?
The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving Board visibility Schedule site visits and Board level its strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk andengagement interaction with senior management of management and internal control systems.
They also review all regions at Board meetings and at the effectiveness of these systems through the work of the other times of the year.
There is Group-wide standard framework in place which supports the Groups risk management programme and allows the Board to manage risk through its strategic planning and performance monitoring processes.
The key risks which the Board has focused on this year are set out in the Risk management and internal control section of this report on pages 42 to 47.
Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Effectiveness There was detailed planning throughout the year, with the How do we maintain an effective Board?
assistance of the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel, to consider and review the Boards 12-month rolling Board relationships agenda programme.
This ensured that all matters reserved The effective working of the Board, through strong and open for the Board and other strategic issues were discussed at working relationships between the Directors, Group Chief the appropriate time.
Executive and Senior Independent Director, is crucial to the long-term prospects and strategic aims of the Company.
Refreshment and development of the Board Theroles of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior As noted on page 68, Karen Witts was appointed as a Independent Director are agreed and set out in writing.
NonExecutive Director during the year with effect from Ashort summary of their roles and division of responsibilities 1November 2011.
As a new Director, Karen was provided is set out below.
with a comprehensive induction programme which we Roles and division of responsibilities implement for all new Directors, details of which are summarised below.
The Directors receive regular updates Chairman ongovernance, legal andregulatory matters, as wellas Responsible for overall leadership and governance of opportunities for further development and training following the Board including induction, development and their induction.
During the year, the Chairman discussed a performance evaluation development planwith each Director.
Ensures that the Directors have an understanding of the At Board meetings and over dinner, the Board also receive views of the Companys major shareholders detailed briengs from advisers on a variety of topics, which are then discussed in the context of the Group and its Ensures a healthy culture of challenge and debate at strategy.
The annual formal review of governance provides Board and Committee meetings the Board with an opportunity to assess the effectiveness oftheir role as Directors.
Group Chief Executive The Board believes that there are significant benets for both Responsible for the effective leadership of the Company the Board and an individual if an Executive Director holds anexternal non executive directorship on the board of a Strong and focused management and development non-competitor company.
Ian Meakins continues to hold his of the Group non executive position at Centrica plc: details of payments Implementation of the Companys objectives and received in respect of this appointment are set out on page strategy agreed by the Board 92.
No other Executive Directors hold any external appointments.
Maintaining good relationships and communications with investors Induction programme Working closely with the Chief Financial officer to ensure prudent financial controls When appointed, a new Director is provided with a tailored induction programme based on their experience Developing and implementing policies relating to Health as a director of a listed company and knowledge of the and Safety and  industry sector.
The programme includes: Senior Independent Director Provision of relevant current and historical information about the Company and the Group: Available for approach by or representations from Specic details about the duties of Directors and the investors and shareholders, where communications Companys rules of residence in light of its registration through the Chairman or Executive Directors may not inJersey and tax residence in Switzerland : seem appropriate Meetings with major shareholders and advisers: A sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary Visits to operations around the Group: and Available to chair the Board in the absence of the One-to-one meetings with members of the Executive Chairman Committee and other senior executives in the businesses and in corporate functions.
Conducts consultations with shareholders on remuneration matters Time commitment The Chairman regularly discusses the way the Board All Directors are aware, from the time of appointment, of the functions, and broad governance matters, with the Senior need to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge Independent Director and Group Company Secretary and their responsibilities effectively.
The Board monitors the General Counsel.
The Senior Independent Director has extent of interests and any conicts on a continuing basis as chaired a meeting of the Board in Gareth Davis absence, detailed on page 80.
During the year, it was announced that and separately has also held informal discussions with Gareth Davis had become the chairman of DS Smith Plc.
theNon Executive Directors, with and without the presence Asthis was to be Gareths third chairmanship, the of the Chairman.
He has also led consultations with implications of this appointment were considered carefully shareholders on remuneration matters.
bythe Board, the Group Company Secretary and General Wolseley plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Effectiveness continued Counsel and the Companys advisers.
It was a role which The Board review undertaken by Dr Long included a review Gareth had already been fullling on a temporary basisand of the effectiveness of each of the Committees and of each he had shown that his commitments were well managed Director and the Company Secretary and the findings were andthat he was able to dedicate the necessary time and presented to the Chairman.
Each was found to perform attention to Wolseley.
Since his formal appointment to that effectively and no material concerns were raised.
role, Gareth Davis commitment and availability have not Also, during the year, the Non Executive Directors, led by been affected.
theSenior Independent Director, undertook the performance evaluation of the Chairman for which they are responsible.
Board support Such evaluation took into account the views of the ExecutiveDirectors.
The Board and its Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
The Group Company Secretary and General Counsel, Richard Shoylekov, was What were the key findings Secretary to the Board and its Committees during the year.
Prior to each set of meetings, he ensured that the papers The review concluded that the Board was highly effective and other information were delivered sufciently in advance and focused on the clarification of Wolseleys strategy and of the meeting date so that all Directors were provided itsimplementation.
Dr Long praised the quality of financial withnecessary time and resources to full their duties.
information provided to the Board, noting that it had improved Thisinformation is published in advance via a secure web and that a strong Audit Committee was increasing the portal, allowing remote access by Directors using an iPad.
attention given to risk management and internal controls.
As well as meeting support, support was also provided Itwas noted that the size and composition of the Board bythe Company Secretariat department and other Group encouraged open and robust debate.
The Chairman was functions in relation to induction, training and development commended for his experienced and supportive approach: ofthe Directors.
and the Group Chief Executive was commended for providing In addition to regular briengs throughout the year on strong operational leadership.
The culture and contribution of consultations, governance, legal and regulatory matters, the Board to the Companys development were recognised areading room was added to the software on the iPad as strengths.
Nocritical issues were identied but a number whichprovided access for all Directors to a library of of areas were identied for further improvement which are relevantinformation about the Company, the Group and summarised below.
As at the date ofthis report, the Board Boardprocedures.
has already begun to implement anumber of these action points into its processes and procedures.
The Board has an established procedure for Directors, if deemed necessary, to take independent professional advice Action Responsibility at the Companys expense in furtherance of their duties.
Greater focus on Board Thisis in addition to the direct access that every Director competitive benchmarking, hasto the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel monitoring customer for his advice and services.
trendsand strengthening supply chain How is the performance of the Board and the Directors evaluated?
Enhance Board oversight Audit Committee and of risk by way of Internal Audit The Board undertakes a formal review of its performance further improvements and that of its Committees each year, with an external to the Internal Audit evaluation every three years.
functionandall Directors to participate in Audit How did we review effectiveness this year?
Committee deliberations An externally facilitated review was conducted this year in where risk is discussed accordance with the Code.
The review was conducted by DrTracy Long of Boardroom Review.
Neither Dr Long nor Further improvement of the HR Boardroom Review has any connection with the Company.
talent development process Dr Long attended the March 2012 Board and Committee in addition to the scheduled meetings and conducted in-depth condential interviews six-monthlyreview with each of the Directors and the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel.
The review considered the Address future gaps in the Board and way in which the Board defines its role and approaches its composition of the Board NominationsCommittee work strategy, risk and control, performance management, and communication : and the way in which the Board works Maximise the use of the Chairman and together culture and dynamics, and whether it optimises Boards time together, CompanySecretary itsuse of time and its contribution to the Company.
with more management briengs and site visits Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Relations with shareholders Shareholder concentration Communication with shareholders Individual and other private investors We are fully committed to engaging with all shareholders, 0.7% including employee shareholders, and this is reected inour annual investor relations programme.
In our interactions with shareholders, we ensure that we act professionally, provide accurate data, are timely with our disclosure of information tothe market and are at all times accessible.
Our Group Communications and Investor Relations Director is the senior executive who has day-to-day responsibility forall investor relations matters and for contact with shareholders institutional and private, as well as with Institutional investors financial analysts and the media.
He reports to 99.3% theChiefFinancial officer and Group Chief Executive.
All investor communication is governed by written guidelines to ensure the appropriate governance of the processes Geographical breakdown forengaging with shareholders and financial analysts is ofshareholderbase maintained.
Inaddition, these guidelines govern the prompt disclosure of inside information which could affect the Companys share price.
United Kingdom Asia 51.5% Who are our major shareholders?
3.6% North America Europe 26.6% As at 31 July 2012, the Company had received notication excluding UK ofthe following material shareholdings pursuant to the 18.1% Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs of the UK Listing Authority.
Rest of World Number of Percentage of 0.2% sharesheld issued voting Name millions share capital Blackrock, Inc 43,006,855 15.03% Cevian Capital II GP Limited 14,690,088 5.17% How do we engage with all of our Fidelity 14,070,947 4.96% shareholders?
Capital Research and During the year, an extensive communications programme Management Company 13,155,308 4.62% was followed.
We maintained regular dialogue with AXA S. A 13,065,225 4.60% institutional shareholders and financial analysts.
Many of these meetings and conversations closely involved the Legal & General Group Plc 11,234,843 3.96% Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer.
We As at the date of the report, the Company had received the released quarterly updates of the financial performance of following further notications in accordance with the DTRs.
the Group incorporating revenue, profitability by region, net debt and appropriate commentary on key business trends.
Blackrock, Inc now holds 42,756,860 shares which is equivalent to 14.93 per cent of the issued voting share capital.
We also ensured that contact was maintained, when appropriate, with shareholders to discuss overall Top 100 investors concentration remuneration plans and policies.
In June 2012, the Company consulted with its major shareholders and proxy advisory Others voting services on the proposals to introduce replacement 15.3% new long-term incentive plans for senior executives.
The Top 5 investors 34.0% plans will be subject to shareholder approval at the 2012 AGM.
Further details can be found in the Notice of AGM.
Rest of top 100 As our shareholder base is mainly institutional, it is difficult investors 16.6% toengage with our private shareholders using the same direct engagement model.
We hold periodic meetings withthe UKShareholders Association and respond to all communications with individual shareholders.
In an effort to Rest of top 30 investors 34.1% ensure that all shareholders have equal access to information we make all documents presented at investor events available on the Wolseley plc website.
There is also a shareholder information section on the Wolseley plc website at www.
com and at the end of this report on page 163.
Wolseley plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Relations with shareholders continued Who did we meet during the year?
What are the AGM procedures and resolutions?
Through our investor relations programme, many different events take place each year.
The 2012 AGM will be held on 29 November 2012 at Parkhotel, Industriestrasse 14, CH-6304, Zug Switzerland The allocation of time spent in UK, Continental Europe with an audio-visual link to Deutsche Bank, Winchester andNorth America is reective of the distribution of our House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London, EC2N 2DB.
shareholders as highlighted on page 73.
Fulldetails of the AGM are contained inthe Notice of AGM.
During the year ended 31 July 2012, there were a total of As required by the Code and to allow transparency, the 227meetings.
Ian Meakins and John Martin together with terms and conditions of appointment of all Directors are the Group Communications and Investor Relations Director available for inspection at the registered ofce in Jersey, at attended 109meetings collectively.
Frank Roach and the the corporate headquarters in Switzerland and its Group Chief Financial officer, North America collectively attended services ofce in the United Kingdom, and will be available 24meetings.
In addition, the investor relations function met for inspection at the 2012 AGM.
with institutions compromising of a further 94 meetings, conferences and site visits.
All shareholders are invited to the Companys AGM, at whichthey have the opportunity to put questions to the The Chairman often meets with the larger institutional Board.
All Directors will attend and be available in person shareholders and attended Full Year and Half Year results toanswer questions.
He also ensures that the Board as a whole maintains an appropriate dialogue with shareholders.
Some questions may not be answered at the meeting, TheGroup Communications and Investor Relations Director should they not be in the interests of the Company, involve gives an annual presentation to the Board on Investor the disclosure of condential information or if it would not be Relations strategy and the Board is regularly apprised of to the good order of the meeting.
The Chairman may also shareholder views and key issues.
The Non Executive nominate a Company representative to answer a specic Directors are encouraged to attend presentations of the question after the AGM or may refer to a response on the FullYear and Half Year results.
The proxy votes received for and against each resolution, What are our plans for engagement aswell as abstentions which may be recorded on the proxy in2012 13?
form accompanying the Notice of AGM, are counted before the AGM and the results of all votes are made available A similar Investor Relations programme will be run during the shortly after the meeting.
The results are also announced to next financial year.
We will also be holding an Investors Day the London Stock Exchange via Regulatory News Service in October 2012 in Washington, D. C. to focus on the and are published on the Wolseley plc website.
progress and opportunities in our US business.
This will include branch visits and a tour of the Front Royal distribution The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to be held on centre in Virginia.
In addition, the Investor Relations team will 29November 2012, together with explanatory notes, appear be meeting with the UK Shareholders Association prior to in the Notice of AGM which is posted to each shareholder in the AGM in November 2012. advance of the meeting.
This document is available on the Wolseley plc website.
AGM The 2011 AGM was held on 29 November 2011 at Parkhotel in Zug, Switzerland with an audio-visual link to The Lincoln Centre, London, UK.
The link allowed active two-way participation by persons physically present in both Switzerland and the UK.
The Board is collectively committed to the constructive use of the AGM to meet with shareholders, hear their views and answer their questions.
All Directors attended and answered a wide range of questions from shareholders.
Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Audit Committee Including the report from the AuditCommittee objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and professional standards: Review the effectiveness of the internal audit function: Review of litigation, contingent liabilities and tax matters, including compliance with statutory tax obligations: and Monitor fraud reports and the operation of the Companys whistleblowing policy.
Michael Wareing Chairman Set out below is the Report of the Audit Committee for the financial year ended 31 July 2012.
Members and attendance eligibility at meetings held during the year ended Dear Shareholder 1 31 July 2012 It has been a busy year for the Audit Committee and much has been reviewed and reported from across the Group.
Meetings during the year 4 Wehave kept abreast of the current EU consultations Current members: relatingto audit reform and the FRCs proposals to update Section C of the Code and the Guidance on Audit M Wareing Chairman 4 4 Committees.
We welcome the FRCs proposals and have T Bamford 4 4 reviewed and updated the Committees terms of reference M Clarke 4 4 indetail in order to reect some oftheir proposals in advance of these becoming mandatory.
A Duff 4 4 The EU proposals on audit reform have also been considered Members who stepped down during the year: and we are monitoring the outcome of that process.
We will K Witts 3 3 give further thought to these proposals and prepare for any consequent changes and the other developments that are 1 As at 31 July 2012, the Committee is made up of four Non Executive Directors.
The Board considers that the Chairman and each member ofthe being considered.
Committee is independent within the denition set out in the Code and that Each member of the Committee brings relevant experience each of them has relevant financial experience.
In addition, I was International Chief Executive of KPMG until I retired in September 2009 Responsibilities and now also chair the Audit Committee of two other FTSE Assist the Board to full its responsibilities relating to companies.
This provides the Board with further assurance external financial reporting and associated announcements that the Audit Committee has the appropriate skills and including: the Half Year and Full Year financial statements, experience and that it meets the Code requirements that including the requirements for financial reporting: and the atleast one member of the Committee has significant, Half Year and Annual Full Year results announcements recentand relevant financial experience.
The expertise made to the London Stock Exchange: andexperience of each member of the Committee are summarised on pages 64 and 65. Review key accounting and auditing issues: At the 2012 AGM, I shall be available to respond to any Review the effectiveness of the Companys internal control questions shareholders may raise on this report or any of and risk management procedures: theCommittees activities.
Report regularly to the Board on compliance in relation tothe business activities for which it has responsibility What has the Committee done during within its terms of reference: the year?
Ensure that it has an agenda which is linked to events in The Committee met four times during the financial year.
the Companys financial calendar: Inaddition to the members of the Committee, the Chairman, Review the Companys policies and procedures relating to the Group Chief Executive, the Chief Financial officer, the governance, risk and control and, in addition to the regular Group Financial Controller, the Head of Internal Audit and items, each member of the Committee may request theGroup Company Secretary and General Counsel, reports on matters of interest: together with senior representatives of the Companys external auditors, attended and received papers for Develop, implement and monitor the Companys policy eachmeeting.
Other senior executives were also invited onexternal audit: tocertainmeetingsto present and discuss specic items.
Monitor independence, objectivity and compliance The Committee periodically meets separately with the withethical and regulatory requirements in relation Headof Internal Audit andthe external auditors without toexternal audit: thepresence of executivemanagement and also separately with the Chief Financial officer.
Review the effectiveness of the external auditor: Key issues covered by the Committee are reported to the Recommend the appointment and reappointment of the subsequent meeting of the Board and the Board also Companys external auditors: receives copies of the minutes of each meeting.
Review at least annually a formal letter provided by the As usual, our activities included reviews of external and external auditors conrming their independence and internal audits, internal controls, financial reporting, risk Wolseley plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Audit Committee continued management systems, and issues relating to fraud and 31 July 2012 can be found in note 3 to the consolidated whistleblowing.
Set out below is a review of our work in financial statements on page 109. relation to each of these areas.
Fees Non-audit fees Finacial Audit fees Non-audit paid as a percentage year total fees total total of audit fees External audit and external auditors 1 2012 3.4 million 2.1 million 5.5 million 61.8% During the year,  LLP PwC 2 undertook both external audit and certain non-audit work.
2011 3.7 million 3.9 million 7.6 million 105.4% The Lead Audit Partner and other senior members of the 1 1.9 million of the non-audit fees related to taxation work and 0.2 million audit team from PwC attended as representatives of the ofthe non-audit fees related to other services.
external auditors ateach Audit Committee meeting and at the 2 1 million of the non-audit fees were pursuant to work required in relation AGM.
They provided the Committee with relevant reports on tothe Groups proposed change in corporate structure and domicile.
thenancial statements and controls, reviews, information and advice.
During the year, PwC provided non-audit services to the Company.
Compared to previous years the fees for such In November 2011, the Committee reviewed and approved work are much lower and we expect this level to be the terms, areas of responsibility and scope of the 2012 maintained or to decrease.
The non-audit services related auditas set out in the external auditors engagement letter.
mainly to assistance on tax matters and certain due diligence During the year, PwC provided audit-related services such as reviews.
These services were provided within the constraints regulatory and statutory reporting.
During the year, PwC are of the APB Ethical Standards on Auditing and were assessed expected to report to the Committee any material departures on a case-by-case basis so that the best placed adviser was from Group accounting policies and procedures that they retained.
Under our policy, the external auditors cannot be identify during the course of their audit work.
Nonewere engaged to perform any of the following services: found or reported in the financial year.
book-keeping services related to accounting records or PwCs 2012 Year End External Audit Plan was approved financial statements: inMarch 2012 and has been successfully completed at the date of this report.
design and implementation of financial information systems: appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions and Financial Reporting and significant contributions in kind reports: financial judgements actuarial services: The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies internal audit outsourcing services: have been adopted, whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements and also seeks management functions including human resources: support from the external auditors to assess them.
broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking Themainissues reviewed in the year ended 31 July 2012 services: or areset out below: legal and other expert services unrelated to audit work.
The Committee reviewed the carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets throughout 2011 12.
The Committee In relation to the non-audit services provides by PwC during agreed with managements assessment that impairment the year, the Committee reviews and approves managements charges had arisen and further details can be found in reasons for selecting PwC as the best placed adviser on a note12 of the financial statements.
This decision was typically based on the existing knowledge of the Company which PwC had and its The Committee monitored the various businesses around importance in relation to the advice sought on each relevant the Group which were disposed of or held for sale and were transaction.
This added value and saved fees in the process.
satisfied that these were correctly classied at the time At each Committee meeting the Committee considered all ofreporting.
requests for, and engagements of, non-audit work to be The Committee reviewed the provisions held and performed by PwC forthe Company.
The Committee follows settlements made relating to litigation disputes and potential its agreed policy regarding such services to ensure that the product liability and considered the judgements made by objectivity or independence of the external auditors is not management.
It was satisfied that these were reasonable impaired.
Inaccordance with this policy, any non-audit work and appropriate, and that the disclosures made which would exceed a level set by the Committee required wereappropriate.
prior approval of the Committee.
The Committee reviewed the carrying value of working Independence and effectiveness of the auditors capital, including trade receivables, inventory and rebates receivable from vendors and were satisfied that provisions Although PwC have been the Companys auditors for a for impairment recorded were reasonable and appropriate.
number of years, the Committee continues to be satisfied with their independence.
The policies and procedures in place ensure that independence and objectivity is not PwCs audit and non-audit fees impaired.
In addition the Committee monitors PwC to ensure The total fees paid to PwC in the year ended 31 July 2012 that they adhere to a rotation policy based on best practice together with a comparison of fees paid in the year ended and ethical standards, in accordance with UK regulations.
31July 2011 are set out in the following table.
Further As a new lead audit partner was appointed in 2010, there are disclosure of the non-audit fees paid during the year ended currently no matters of concern.
Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 In November 2011, the Committee undertook its annual investment and the Companys assets and depends on review of the effectiveness of the external auditors.
regular evaluation of theextent of the risks to which the Aquestionnaire was sent to the Finance Directors of each Company is exposed.
The way in which the processes of operating company, which provided us with an overall view external audit, internal audit and internal controls overlaps across the Group.
From this questionnaire and further and complement each other was reviewed in May 2012. discussions in the meeting, the Committee is satisfied that The Committee is assured that the Companys systems PwC continues to provide an effective audit service.
comply with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report Based on the details above, this year the Committee did not Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined consider it necessary to conduct a tender process for the Code.
At each meeting, the Committee has in-depth appointment of the Companys auditors, although as noted discussions about the internal controls with the managers above, we continue to keep this under review and are responsible for their implementation.
TheCommittee can monitoring the current debate and proposals from the FRC confirm that the Companys systems and their effectiveness and EU.
have been in place forthe full financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements were approved, andare regularly reviewed by the Board.
Internal audit The Chairman of the Committee reported any matters to the During the year, prior to each of the four scheduled Board which arose from theCommittees review of the way Committee meetings the Chairman of the Committee met in which the risk management and internal control processes with the Head of Internal Audit.
He attended each Committee were applied and on any breakdowns in, or exceptions to, meeting where he presented an internal audit report which these processes.
There were no significant failings or was fully reviewed and discussed.
These processes have been in place At each Committee meeting, the Committee considered the throughout the year ended 31 July 2012 and have continued results of the audits undertaken by the Groups Internal Audit to the date of this report.
function and considered the adequacy of managements Full details of how the business implements its risk management response to matters raised, including the time taken to and controls on a Group-wide basis are set out in Risk resolve any such matters.
In March 2012, the Committee management and internal control section on pages 42 to 47. undertook theannual review of the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function, including its terms of reference, its audit plans, itsgeneral performance and its Whistleblowing and fraud relationship with the external auditors.
This review was The Committee received reports at each Committee meeting undertaken using guidance issued bythe Institute of providing details of matters reported to the Groups Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and the international condential telephone reporting lines and secure Institute of Internal Auditors UK.
website reporting facility, which are operated on its behalf by an independent third party.
All matters reported are Risk management and internal controls investigated by the relevant operating company and, where appropriate, reported to the Committee, together with details Risk management reports, prepared by the Group Head of any corrective action taken.
ofRisk, were submitted to the Committee in March and September 2012.
These reports summarise submissions The Committee also received reports at each Committee from all areas of the business which the Executive Committee meeting providing details of fraud losses in each quarter.
and senior management have reviewed.
Theyidentify the The Wolseley Groups whistleblowing policy, which supports significant risks to the Group and highlight the tolerance levels the Group-wide Code of Conduct, is also monitored by the that the Executive Committee is prepared to accept.
During the year the Committee monitored and reviewed theeffectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, What are the priorities for 2012 13?
accounting policies and practices, standards of risk management and risk management procedures and Continue to progress the efforts of the Committees total compliance controls, as well as the Companys statements assurance efforts, including Internal Audit, External Audit on internal controls, before they were agreed by the Board and ACE, over the Companys key risks and controls.
Continued vigilance over the effects of the economic The Groups internal control systems are designed to downturn on the Company and on its financial position.
manage rather than eliminate business risk.
They provide Prepare for the implementation of the final requirements reasonable but not absolute assurance against material arising from the current FRC and EU debate on audit rotation mis-statement or loss.
and other governance matters, once these are known.
As management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group including the consolidation process, we received regular updates at each meeting on the work undertaken by the Advanced Control Environment ACE Michael Wareing CMG team, whose focus is on internal controls to ensure the on behalf of the Audit Committee accuracy of financial reporting.
The Committee agrees that the Company has a well-designed system of internal control.
Such a system is necessary to safeguard shareholders A copy of the Groups Code of Conduct is available ontheWolseley plc website at www.
com Wolseley plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Nominations Committee Dear Shareholder What has the Committee done during the year?
The Committee has continued to review the composition and experience of the Board, mindful of the potential need torefresh its membership in the next 12 to 18 months.
In particular, we nalised the appointment of Karen Witts asaNon Executive Director who was appointed as of Gareth Davis Chairman 1November 2011.
Following the departure of Karen asdetailed on page 68, the Committee is considering Members and attendance eligibility theappointment ofa replacement Non Executive Director at meetings heldduring the year ended tothe Board.
31 July 2012 In accordance with our procedure for selecting and recruiting Directors, the Committee retained an external search agency Meetings during the year 2 which has no connection to the Company to assist in the Current members: process of identifying potential candidates for nomination 1 tothe Board.
G Davis Chairman 1 2 During the year, the Committee in recognising the impact of T Bamford 2 2 the Davies Report ensured that skills, experience, potential M Clarke 2 2 and overall balance of the Board as well as diversity A Duff 2 2 including gender were, and will be, fully considered in relation to recent and future appointments.
M Wareing 2 2 The Committee can confirm that, in accordance with the Members who stepped down during the year: Code, any Non Executive Director with a term beyond six K Witts 1 1 years has been subject to a particularly rigorous review.
As noted here and on page 62, it is expected that Andrew Duff, 1 Due to personal circumstances, Mr Davis was unable to attend one the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Committee meeting.
Remuneration Committee, will step down in 2013 as his tenure draws to an end.
This will provide an opportunity Responsibilities torefresh the Board, and the Committee is already in the process of a search for suitable additional Non Executive Review the structure, size and composition of the Board Directors.
and its Committees: At the 2012 AGM, I shall be available to respond to any Make recommendations with regard to any changes that questions shareholders may raise on this report or any of the are considered necessary, both in the identication and Committees activities.
nomination of new Directors and the continuation of existing Directors in ofce: What are the priorities for 2012 13?
Evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience Continue the search for at least one new Non Executive on the Board and its diversity, including gender, and, Director: inlight of that evaluation, prepare the description of Review the balance, experience and skills of the Board, therelevant role and capabilities required of prospective recognising the expected departure of the Senior candidates: Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Make its recommendations to the Board, after a rigorous Committee: and interview process for shortlisted candidates: Monitor the Companys progress in developing its Retain external search consultants for appointments to diversitypolicies.
theBoard: and Advise the Board on succession planning for Board appointments, although the Board itself has overall responsibility for succession generally.
Gareth Davis Chairman of the Nominations Committee Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Other committees Major Announcements Committee Treasury Committee Members during the year ended 31 July 2012 Members during the year ended 31 July 2012 J Martin Chairman J Martin Chief Financial officer Chairman G Davis I Meakins Group Chief Executive M Fearon R Shoylekov Group Company Secretary andGeneralCounsel I Meakins M Verrier Group Treasurer R Shoylekov 1 M Webb Group Financial Controller The Committee has no meetings scheduled, and it was not 1 Matt Webb was appointed to another position within the Group and required to meet during the year.
therefore was replaced on the Committee by the new Group Financial Controller, Simon Gray, with effect from 1 August 2012.
Other ad hoc committees Responsibilities As required by the demands of business, the Board may appoint ad hoc committees to facilitate the implementation Considers treasury policy, including financial structures of its decisions or to consider specic matters in further and investments, tax and treasury strategy, policies and detail between scheduled meetings.
The Board may certain transactions on behalf of the Group: delegate matters of a substantive nature to a special purpose Reviews the performance and compliance of the tax and Committee.
If it does so it will generally have already treasury function, within a framework delegated by the considered the matter in depth at a full Board meeting but Board: and may require further review prior to final approval.
Makes recommendations to the Board in matters such as During the year, a number of committees were appointed for overall nancing structure and strategy and currency the specic purpose of implementing decisions of the Board exposure.
in relation to approved acquisitions, the development of projects or the release of announcements.
What has the Committee done during theyear?
Executive Committee The Committee met periodically during the year and considered cash pooling, counterparty exposure and 1 Members during the year ended 31 July 2012 guarantees, interest rate risk, currency denomination of debt, I Meakins Chairman counterparty credit limits, overdraft facilities, US receivables nancing, andeuro-denominated cash balances.
S Ashmore T England Disclosure Committee P Gardies Members during the year ended 31 July 2012 J Martin J Martin Chief Financial officer Chairman B Morrison M Fearon Group Communications and Investor Relations F Roach Director R Shoylekov I Meakins Group Chief Executive 2 S Weirse R Shoylekov Group Company Secretary andGeneralCounsel 1 Full details of this committee can be found on page 66.
2 Steen Weirse retired 31 July 2012 and was replaced by Ole Mikael Jensen Responsibilities with effect from 1 August 2012.
Meets as required to deal with all matters relating to public Responsibilities announcements of the Company and, in particular, the Companys obligations under the Listing and Disclosure Addresses operational business issues: and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority: and Responsible for implementing Group strategy and policies: Assists in the design, implementation and periodic evaluation Day-to-day operational management of the business: and of the Companys disclosure controls and procedures.
However, any announcements relating to any matters which the Board has designated as reserved matters, or What has the Committee done this year?
matters of a substantive or strategic nature, are dealt with by the Board or by the Major Announcements Committee.
Management matters were addressed by the Committee and other committees to whom specic authority has What has the Committee done during the year?
beendelegated to implement Board strategy or policy.
The Committee met periodically during the year to consider TheCommittee met 11 times during theyear and these specic matters that had been identied as needing meetings usually took place prior to Board meetings.
