How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs Hill Knowlton Strategies together.
The P&G Family Home also provided services and amenities from P&G brands all focused Report by Jack Martin below on serving mom.
And working closely with P&G, we Global chairman and chief executive officer helped bring to life a Thank You Mom campaign that highlighted the magical exchange of support and gratitude between Olympic moms and their athlete children, and how P&Gs products make the everyday love in these relationships even more special.
During the 2012 Olympic Games in London, H K helped Procter & Gamble develop and execute a remarkable, memorable and viral campaign that honored athletes and their mothers, and increased the global power of the For most people, Olympic pride is based on the P&G brand performance of athletes representing their home countries.
For me, Olympic pride came from the talent and creativity of Hill Knowlton Strategies.
Our efforts didnt just improve sales or increase Im proud to say that during the 2012 Olympic P&Gs brand recognition.
Perhaps more importantly, Games in London, H K helped Procter & Gamble our work honored the role that moms play in bringing develop and execute a remarkable, memorable the extraordinary out in everything they do, and andviral campaign that honored athletes and their especially for the people closest to their hearts.
I could mothers, and increased the global power of the not be prouder of the campaign that we built and the P&Gbrand.
way it played out during the London Olympics and Working in partnership with P&G, the H K team Icould not be more proud of the people we have at turned the spotlight on the mothers of athletes the H K, whose efforts made it all possible.
women who sacrifice time and energy in ways both big and small, and who pour out love every day, tosupport the skills and success of their children.
Webelieved that these women, who too often stand forgotten on the sidelines, deserved to be honored just as much as the athletes they nurtured and encouraged.
Together with P&G, we built compelling narratives that echoed a mothers love, and the gratitude that children all over the world feel for theseexpressions of care and devotion.
In London, together with Landor, we helped create the P&G Family Home, which offered moms and families of Olympians from around the world a home away fromhome a place to relax, unwind and be WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 69 How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs Cohn & Wolfe Report by Donna Imperato right Chief executive officer Following a strong 2011, we set ambitious goals forCohn & Wolfe going into 2012.
Our progress is areflection of strategic expansion, bold client work and our ongoing commitment to talent.
Our solid growth this year was fueled by strong new business performance, as we added dozens of blue-chip brands.
Twenty per cent of Cohn & Wolfes growth was organic and we retained all of our top 20 clients, Association.
Susan Field, our CEO of Greater China, including long-term clients 3M, Colgate-Palmolive, was named Business Leader of the Year by SKAL J. M. Smucker and Panasonic.
Our specialty International Hong Kong: and, humbly, I was named companies, GCI Health and Axicom, also performed to PRWeeks PR Power List for the second time.
very well, with strong new and organic growth and Advertising Age again named Cohn & Wolfe one breakthrough client work.
ofthe Best Places to Work in marketing and media, Our most significant accomplishment this year the only public relations agency to make the list two was our investment and continued expansion in Asia.
But the most thrilling moment of the C&W XPR and C&W-impactasia completed their year was when PRWeek recognised Cohn & Wolfe first full year of operations, delivering impressive asLarge PR Agency of the Year and overall Agency growth and award-winning campaigns.
two new offices in India in 2012 which have already won exciting new business.
Our expansion in Asia and other regions will continue, based on client needs and market opportunities.
Our most significant accomplishment this year was our investment and continued expansion in Asia Our excellent work around the world resulted indozens of industry honors, including: a Global SABRE award for our work with Valvoline: Best Social Media Campaign from the European Excellence Awards for our work with Unibet: a Gold EMEA SABRE award for our work with ColgatePalmolive: and five pan-EMEA awards for a groundbreaking online game to discourage binge drinking, for the French Alcohol Beverage Makers 70 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs RLM Finsbury Hering Schuppener Report by Roland Rudd below, left Report by Ralf Hering Chairman and Principal partner and chief executive officer Walter Montgomery below, right Chief executive officer As Germanys market leader in corporate and financial communications, we work closely with the senior management of leading companies in Europe and beyond on all corporate issues and in missioncritical situations.
Hering Schuppener has built astrong practice in corporate and public affairs regarding regulatory issues in capital markets, acting on national and EU levels.
The consultancy also has a powerful healthcare arm advising leaders in the pharmaceutical industry on communications policies.
In 2012, we advised clients in more than 30 RLM Finsbury, which was created in 2011 from M&A transactions and in the largest IPO in themerger of Robinson Lerer & Montgomery and Germany.
High-profile assignments included CEO Finsbury, works extensively with corporations in the transitions in the financial services, manufacturing, Fortune 500, FTSE 100 and Eurofirst 300, as well as media and travel industries, major compliance and numerous public and independent companies around governance issues support and restructurings in the the world.
manufacturing sector, and strategic corporate brand The firms communications professionals bring positioning in the retail industry.
awealth of experience in finance, law, public policy and journalism, as well as the global expertise, insight and judgement to help clients make the In 2012, we advised clients in more greatest impact in their interactions with the media, than 30 M&A transactions and in the financial markets, employees, policy makers and largest IPO in Germany other vital stakeholders.
Services include financial communications, investor relations, crisis communications, issues management, corporate affairs, public policy and regulatory affairs.
The consultancy has been consistently on top of In 2012, a year that brought increasing cooperation the mergermarket rankings for M&A transactions in between the two predecessor firms in global business volume since 2004 and in value since 2007.
It also development and client service, the firm posted solid advises clients in IPOs and other capital raisings, results, with revenues increasing over 2011, despite investor relations, corporate restructurings, and CEO aweak economic and M&A environment.
transitions as well as crisis communications and other special situations in almost every industry sector.
Burson-Marsteller see report on page 53 In the past year, The Holmes Report named the firm Global Corporate and Financial Agency of the Year.
It was also named EMEA Best Consultancy Ogilvy Public Relations see report on page 46 toWork For, for the fourth time, and received the EMEA SABRE Award for Best Work in the C-Suite.
