64 Governance For more information Corporate Governance Report about our governance Letter from the chairman framework visit: www.
com investors governance Dear Shareholder I am once again pleased to present the Boards annual report on corporate governance.
My personal commitment, with the support of the Board, to the continued maintenance of effective corporate governance across the Group continues.
The Board has maintained and strengthened its focus on ensuring that the framework in place remains meaningful, relevant and aligned with our business priorities.
Continuing the work we started last year in response to the Financial Reporting Councils FRC drive to reduce clutter in governance reporting, we have focused on changes during the year rather than boiler plate disclosure seeking to cover all aspects of our governance framework.
The more detailed standing information is available online.
In addition to the ongoing drive to ensure effective corporate governance, the Board has made the following items areas which demand specic attention: Diversity In September 2011, in response to Lord Davies of Abersochs call to chairmen to publish their diversity goals, we announced our aspiration to have one third of our Board members as women by 2015.
We believe in the benets of greater gender diversity and are actively supportive of appropriate measures to achieve this without resorting to unnecessary quotas.
Women currently account for 22% of our Board.
Our focus will remain on attracting the right talent and skills irrespective of gender or ethnicity.
In our 2011 Annual Report, we reported our progress towards achieving greater diversity in our Board composition.
Today, the Boards make-up reects the increasing internationalisation of the Group with directors demonstrating diversity of perspective, experience, thought, gender, ethnicity and nationality.
Succession planning We recognise that the gender imbalance experienced at Board level could be a symptom of an issue below the Board.
The gender imbalance among employees in our Group remains an issue, as it is for many other organisations in the science, engineering, maths and technology sectors.
In an attempt to address this, the Board has approved action plans developed by each of the Groups regional management teams to achieve a significant difference in the gender balance at a senior level in management and technical roles.
Progress on this action plan has been reported in the Human Resources Review page 49.
Performance evaluation The Board undertook a further internal performance evaluation process during the year.
It also continued to build upon the actions identied during the performance evaluation process in the prior year.
Allan Cook CBE Chairman 13 June 2012 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 65 For more detailed information about how the Board and its Committees operate visit: www.
com investors leadership Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Throughout the year ended 31 March 2012 the Company complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, a copy of which is available on the FRCs website: www.
Full details of the Groups governance framework are available on the Companys website: www.
Leadership The Board is responsible for ensuring the long term success of the Company.
It does so by determining the Companys long term direction and strategic aims within a framework of appropriate and robust controls.
A key principle of the framework is the delegation of operational management to the chief executive officer with a matrix of authorities setting out how this is further delegated through the organisation.
This approach is followed to enable the efficient and effective operation of the Groups businesses on a daily basis.
Following his appointment as chief executive officer, Dr Uwe Krueger made a number of organisational changes to ensure that we have the right leadership and organisation structure in place to deliver our strategy for growth.
He redened the role of the heads of our regions, appointing them as regional chief executive ofcers in recognition of the broader level at which they work, the responsibility they each have for the overall performance and development of our regional businesses and the contribution expected from each of them.
The Strategy Group was reconstituted and renamed as the Senior Leadership Team, expanding its membership to include additional senior Group directors.
Finally, as the Group expands geographically and in size, management focus and decision making must inevitably be devolved to the regional management teams.
As a result, the Group Executive was dissolved with regional management teams being empowered to develop the strategy for growth for their region.
The Board has retained control of a number of matters for its sole consideration.
The schedule of matters reserved to the Board includes: s the consideration and approval of strategy s general oversight of the Groups operations s approval of significant bids and contracts s the Groups capital, corporate, management and control structures s approval of financial statements and shareholder communications s approval of dividend policy and interim dividends s approval of Group policies s implementation and monitoring of internal control and risk management systems s significant contracts, acquisitions and disposals s material changes to the Groups pension schemes.
Whilst the Board has specic responsibility for those matters reserved for its consideration, in certain areas specic responsibility is delegated to committees of the Board within dened terms of reference.
The activities of these committees are discussed in more detail later in this report and their terms of reference are available on the Groups website: www.
com or on request from the company secretary.
In addition the Board may delegate authority to a standing committee, consisting of any two directors, to provide the final sign-off for an agreed course of action within pre-dened parameters.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 66 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The key agenda items discussed by the Board during the year included: Theme Agenda items Financial s Approval of trading updates and interim management statements reporting s Approval of the full year results, 2011 AGM notice of meeting and associated documentation for the year ended 31 March 2011 s Approval of the half year results and associated documentation for the six months ended 30 September 2011 s Quarterly performance updates and business reviews including stafng, quality, environmental and health and safety matters s Appointment of the independent auditor Strategy s Group strategy development, approval and implementation s Acquisition and integration of the oil and gas business of Pyry PLC s Continued integration of PBSJ s Dened benefit pension schemes deficit s Dividend recommendation and approval as appropriate s The Groups banking facilities s Renewal of the Groups bonding lines s The Groups debut issue in the US private placement market s The sale of the Groups minority interest in RMPA Holdings Limited s Post-acquisition review of the PBSJ acquisition s significant project approvals Budget s Budget for the Group for the year ending 31 March 2013 Business s Energy business strategy presentations s UK business and UK support services s Middle East business s UK Defence, Aerospace and Communications business strategy s Atkins North America business Governance s Implementation of adequate procedures in connection with the Bribery Act 2010 s Governance framework review, including review of risk management and internal controls s Approval of key corporate policies and Board committee terms of reference s Directors conicts of interest and annual review of authorised conicts s Dissolution of the Group Executive Shareholder s Development and implementation of an investor relations programme engagement s Updates from the executive directors on the views of shareholders following investor meetings s Independent feedback from investor meetings from the Groups broker Employees s Appointment of the new chief executive officer and a new non-executive director s Employee diversity, particularly gender diversity s Women on Boards report from Lord Davies s Review of the results of the 2012 employee engagement survey s Senior personnel changes and succession planning Board s Board committee memberships s Non-executive directors fees s Outcomes of the 2011 review of Board effectiveness WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 67 The membership of the Board during the year is shown in table 1 along with a summary of attendance at meetings of the Board and its committees.
Biographies for each of the directors are provided separately pages 58 and 59.
1 Table 1: Board membership and Board and committee meeting attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Director Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman Allan Cook Nomination Committee chairman 12 12 3 3 Executive directors 2 6 Keith Clarke chief executive officer to 31 July 2011 5 6 2 2 Heath Drewett Group finance director 12 12 Alun Grifths Group HR director 12 12 3 Uwe Krueger chief executive officer from 1 August 2011 8 8 Senior independent director Admiral the Lord Boyce 12 12 9 9 3 3 Independent non-executive directors Fiona Clutterbuck 12 12 4 4 9 9 3 3 Joanne Curin Audit Committee chairman 12 12 4 4 3 3 Raj Rajagopal 4 Remuneration Committee chairman from 8 September 2011 12 12 3 3 9 9 3 3 5 5 Rodney Slater 5 5 3 6 Sir Peter Williams 4 7 Remuneration Committee chairman to 8 September 2011 6 8 1 1 3 3 3 3 1.
Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended number eligible to attend.
Keith Clarke retired as a director and chief executive officer on 31 July 2011.
Uwe Krueger was appointed a director on 14 June 2011 and chief executive officer on 1 August 2011.
Sir Peter Williams retired as an independent non-executive director and chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 8 September 2011.
Raj Rajagopal succeeded him as chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Rodney Slater was appointed as an independent non-executive director on 9 September 2011.
Two Remuneration Committee meetings coincided with engagements made prior to his appointment.
One meeting of the Remuneration Committee was convened at short notice and coincided with a prior engagement.
With the Chairmans agreement, Keith Clarke did not attend one meeting that was convened solely to discuss his successors appointment.
Two meetings of the Board were convened at short notice and coincided with prior engagements.
Allan Cooks external appointments remained unchanged during the year.
However, it was brought to the Boards attention that SELEX Galileo was undergoing a major restructuring as part of Finmeccanica and he was actively involved in this project.
To enable him to carry out his responsibilities as chairman, he continues to spend at least three days per week with Atkins.
Directors conicts of interest Each director is required, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, to declare any interests that may give rise to a conict of interest with the Company on appointment and subsequently as they arise.
Where such a conict, or potential conict, arises the Board is empowered under the Companys articles of association to consider and authorise such conicts as appropriate.
In addition, the Company undertakes an annual review of all authorised conicts to ensure such authorisation remains appropriate, the last such review having taken place in October 2011.
A more detailed statement regarding how the Board operates is available on the Groups website: www.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 68 Governance For more information about Corporate Governance Report how the Board ensures it is continued operating effectively visit: www.
com investors effectiveness Effectiveness Nomination Committee The key matters discussed by the Nomination Committee during the financial year included: Theme Agenda items Succession s Executive and non-executive directors planning Board and s Recommendation to Board regarding appointment of the new chief executive officer committee and a new non-executive director appointments s Election and re-election of directors in accordance with the Companys articles of association s Board committee memberships Information regarding the Committee, including its terms of reference, is available on the Groups website: www.
Appointment processes During the year the Committee recommended the appointments of Dr Uwe Krueger as chief executive officer and Rodney Slater as a non-executive director.
The process followed for the appointment of Dr Krueger was described in detail in the previous years annual report.
The Board, recognising the increased presence of the Group in North America, commissioned a search for a non-executive director with significant and relevant US business experience.
This particular attribute was identied alongside others set out in a detailed role specication, developed by the Nomination Committee.
Each candidate was assessed against this role specication as well as undergoing a comprehensive interview process.
Following its successful involvement in the identication and appointment of Dr Krueger as chief executive officer, Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann provided support for the search.
Performance evaluation Following the appointment of Dr Uwe Krueger as chief executive officer in August 2011 the Board considered it inappropriate to conduct an evaluation exercise facilitated by an external third party during the year as originally anticipated.
This was to allow Dr Krueger time to work with the Chairman to identify working practices and areas for change.
Allan Cook therefore, once again, undertook a comprehensive evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees and individual directors via private one-to-one meetings in late 2011.
The final report, prepared with the assistance of Richard Webster, the company secretary, was considered in detail at a meeting in early 2012.
The Board was content that its overall performance remained satisfactory but is not complacent and continually seeks to drive further improvement.
It therefore continues to keep under review progress made on the actions identied in 2010, as outlined in table 2 a, as well as identifying a number of areas for improvement in 2011 as outlined in table 2 b.
Table 2 a : Progress outcomes on actions arising from the 2010 Board performance evaluation Observation Action s Progress outcome Board focus Ensure the Board is able to focus on the Enhance the use of a rolling 12 month The rolling 12 month agenda was right issues, in the right level of detail agenda to ensure the Board is able enhanced in conjunction with the company and at the right time to devote its time to matters secretary.
This allowed for more effective more effectively use of available Board time Succession planning Consider the approach to succession Maintain the focus on the Groups The Boards continued focus on succession planning to ensure it is sufciently robust succession planning process which planning, particularly in regard to diversity, to meet the Groups needs was commenced by the Nomination was highlighted in its September 2011 Committee, paying particular attention response to Lord Davies of Abersochs call to diversity to chairmen to publish their diversity goals Shareholder engagement Continue to communicate our message The remit of the investor relations team An investor relations director was effectively and efficiently to existing and has been reviewed and reinvigorated appointed in 2011 and the Board receives potential shareholders and the Board will continue to monitor regular updates from the investor relations shareholder engagement to ensure it director, the Companys brokers and remains effective other advisors WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 69 The committees terms of reference may be viewed at: www.
com investors tor Table 2 b : 2011 Board performance evaluation observations Observation Action s Board balance Ensure the Board has the right balance of Keep the skills and experience of Board members under constant review to ensure skills and experience to function effectively balance is maintained and changed in line with the Groups changing requirements Succession planning Consider the approach to succession Maintain the Boards focus on the Groups succession planning process to ensure that planning to ensure it is sufciently robust the Group is positioned to respond to changing needs, continuing to pay particular to meet the Groups needs attention to diversity Management data Ensure the Board has access to timely and Management to develop the Groups management reporting system further to ensure sufciently detailed management data to it reects the Groups strategic plans as they develop enable it to full its responsibilities Risk management Consider the risk management processes Regularly review the Groups risk management processes to ensure they remain t as the Group develops to ensure it for purpose as the Group develops remains t for purpose The key findings of the performance review will be the subject of focus in the current financial year and progress will be considered as part of the next performance evaluation.
An externally facilitated evaluation exercise is now scheduled to be undertaken in early 2013.
Commitment During the year all directors, particularly the non-executive directors, committed significant time to the Company.
Following the appointment of Dr Krueger as chief executive officer, the Groups strategy has been reviewed in detail and this, along with the comprehensive review of executive director remuneration discussed in more detail in the Remuneration Report, pages 73 to 93, has required significant additional time from the directors.
Development Allan Cook regularly reviews training requirements with each director.
The company secretary ensures suitable opportunities are identied.
During the year the directors have undertaken training on topics including executive remuneration, board effectiveness and the role of diversity, and financial reporting.
On joining the Board, directors take part in a formal induction process.
This includes the provision of past Board materials to provide background information on the Group, information on Board processes and governance, site visits and meetings with key employees.
The induction is tailored to each new directors specic needs.
Rodney Slater received a comprehensive induction programme, which commenced immediately following the announcement of his appointment.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 70 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Accountability Financial reporting Statements regarding directors responsibilities and the status of the business as a going concern are given in the Directors Report pages 62 and 63.
Internal controls The Board is responsible for reviewing and approving the Groups governance framework and ensuring its adequacy and effectiveness, as set out in the Turnbull guidance.
The Groups governance framework is illustrated in gure 1.
Figure 1: Governance framework The Atkins Group Board s Articles of association s Matters reserved s Terms of reference s Effectiveness review s Group policies Business performance controls s Approved strategy s Business strategy reviews s Quarterly business reviews s Targets s Monthly reporting s Business management boards Project controls s Commercial risk and audit framework s Business management system s Group authority matrix s Service delivery process and procedures s Project managers and directors s Commercial procedures and guidance notes s Operational risk reviews and logs s Project summary reports s Project audits Values and ethics The Group operates through a devolved and decentralised structure, which is considered a key part of the Groups ability to deliver multi local services to its clients and hence is reected in our governance framework.
Under this structure the chief executive officer delegates authority and control to the regional chief executive ofcers each of whom are members of the Senior Leadership Team, from them to the managing directors of the principal businesses and then downward to business and project managers as appropriate.
Within this framework: s authority is delegated within clearly prescribed limits s decisions are escalated where either project size or risk prole require a higher level of authority s activity and performance are tracked through monthly and quarterly reports s effectiveness is audited via internal audit and self-assessment controls.
The governance framework is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve stated business objectives.
It can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Audit and risk Quality, safety and environment People Governance 71 For more information about our internal controls visit: www.
com investors accountability Following the acquisition of PBSJ, an integration programme was implemented to embed the Groups governance framework within the acquired business.
Work continues on this programme with an appropriate control framework continuing to operate in the interim.
Joint ventures in which the Company does not have overall control are not covered by the Groups governance framework.
For these joint ventures, systems of internal control are applied as agreed between the joint venture parties.
The Board monitored and reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups governance framework, which includes internal controls and risk management, on a continual basis throughout the year ended 31 March 2012 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Support was provided by the Group Risk Committee, the internal audit function and the Companys independent auditor.
Audit Committee The key matters discussed by the Audit Committee during the financial year included: Theme Agenda Items Financial s Judgemental issues regarding the results for the year ended 31 March 2011 including review reporting of accounting policies s Independent auditors report in respect of the results for the year ended 31 March 2011 s Draft full year results and associated documentation for the year ended 31 March 2011 s Judgemental issues regarding the results for the six months ended 30 September 2011 s Independent auditors report in respect of the results for the six months to 30 September 2011 s Draft half year results and associated documentation for the six months to 30 September 2011 s Plans for the preparation of the full year results for the year ended 31 March 2012 Internal controls s Review of internal controls, including controls of our newly acquired North American business s Response to Senior Accounting officer regime s Group self-certication process and statement s Review of the whistleblower and fraud response policies and processes s Reports on whistleblower condential hotline activity s Enhancement of internal control systems, including project controls s Review of Group tax and treasury policies Internal audit s Amendments to the internal audit plan for 2011 12 s Consideration of the internal audit plan for 2012 13 s Regular reviews of internal audit findings s Adoption of a policy regarding the management of potential conicts between the Group and the internal auditor s Performance of Ernst & Young as internal auditor Independent s Independent audit plans for the six months to 30 September 2011 and for the year ended 31 March 2012 auditor s Review of the policy regarding the management of potential conicts between the Group and the independent auditor, including non-audit work undertaken by the independent auditor s Review of audit and non-audit fees paid to the independent auditor and its independence s Recommendation regarding the reappointment of the independent auditor s Approval in line with policy of non-audit work undertaken by the independent auditor Risk s Annual review of the activities of the Group Risk Committee s Review of Group risk log Resources s Review of finance personnel and succession planning WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 72 Governance For more information Corporate Governance Report about our relations with continued shareholders visit: www.
com investors relations The independent auditor is currently  LLP PwC, who has acted in this capacity since the Company listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1996.
Having considered the relationship with the independent auditor, its qualication, expertise, resources and effectiveness, in particular noting the rotation of audit partner during the year, the Audit Committee concluded that the appointment continues to meet the Groups needs and therefore recommended the reappointment of the independent auditor to the Board.
Accordingly, it has not considered it necessary to date to undertake a tender process for the audit work although it has considered PwCs appointment on an annual basis.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of independent auditor.
The impact on independence, if any, of non-audit work performed by the independent auditor is considered regularly by the Committee.
Approval is required prior to the independent auditor commencing any material non-audit work in accordance with a Group policy approved annually by the Committee.
The policy identies certain non-audit work that may be awarded with the approval of the executive directors, within certain limited financial parameters, and other work that requires the specic approval of the Committee.
Certain work, such as providing bookkeeping services, is prohibited.
The appointment of former employees of the independent auditor to positions in the Group is also regulated by the Committee.
Note 5 to the Financial Statements page 120 sets out the fees paid to the independent auditor for audit and non-audit work.
Approximately 25% of the non-audit fees incurred related to projects associated with the implementation of the pension strategy and it was therefore considered appropriate, in light of PwCs detailed understanding of the Group and expertise in this area, to engage its services in this regard.
The Committee concluded that the level of non-audit fees, which represent a value of 62% of the audit fees for the Group, did not have a negative impact on PwCs independence.
Information regarding the Committee, including its terms of reference, is available on the Groups website: www.
Remuneration Details of the directors remuneration and the work of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Remuneration Report pages 73 to 93.
Relations with shareholders The primary means used by the Board for communicating with all Company shareholders are the Annual Report, half year results and annual general meeting AGM.
It also recognises the importance of the internet as a means of communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively and an investor relations section is provided on the Groups website: www.
com investors to facilitate communications with shareholders.
Following the successful introduction of calling a poll for all resolutions considered at last years AGM, we intend to continue this practice in future.
This ensures the Company continues to operate in line with best practice and allows all shareholders, present in person or by proxy, to vote on all resolutions in proportion to their shareholding.
Details of the 2012 AGM are set out in the separate Notice of Meeting.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Richard Webster Company secretary 13 June 2012 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012
