Corporate Governance report The UK Corporate Governance Code While the Board focuses on strategic issues, financial performance, The Board is fully committed to the principle of best practice in risk management and critical business issues, the Board also has corporate governance.
This report describes how Xstrata has applied a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have These reserved matters are documented in a comprehensive regime fully complied with the provisions of the Code during the year.
The of authorisation levels and prior approval requirements for key UK Corporate Governance Code is available at www.
They include, but are not limited to, approval of budgets and business plans, major capital expenditure, As well as complying with the UKs corporate governance major acquisitions and disposals, and other key commitments, and requirements, our secondary listing in Switzerland requires that we are updated as required.
Certain powers are delegated by the Board also comply with the regulations of the SIX Swiss Exchange and Swiss to the Executive Committee which is a committee of the Board of securities laws.
Xstrata Schweiz AG, the main operating subsidiary of Xstrata plc.
Disclosure and transparency rules DTR This committee and a description of its powers are described on page 44.
The information required by DTR 7.2.
6 regarding share capital required under paragraph 13 of Schedule 7 to the Large and Powers of the directors Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports Subject to the Memorandum and Articles of Association, UK Regulations 2008 is included in the Directors report on pages legislation, and to any directions given by special resolution, the 59 to 63. business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Articles of Association Board governance contain specific provisions concerning our power to borrow money The directors and also provide the power to make purchases of any of its own Our Board, chaired by Sir John Bond, has 13 directors, comprising shares.
Directors have no existing authority to purchase Xstratas three executive directors and ten non-executive directors.
The three own shares but they are authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares.
executive directors are Mick Davis, Chief Executive, Trevor Reid, These powers are exercised under authority of resolutions of the Chief Financial Officer, and Santiago Zaldumbide, Chief Executive Company passed at the AGM held on 16 May 2012.
The Notice of Xstrata Zinc.
David Rough, an independent, non-executive director, AGM sets out details of the authorities the Company will be seeking is the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
At the at the next AGM to issue and allot ordinary shares of US$0.50 each.
Annual General Meeting AGM on 16 May 2012, all the directors Board meetings offered themselves for re-election and were duly re-appointed.
There During the year, four scheduled Board meetings and five meetings were no changes to the membership of our Board during the year.
of the independent and the executive directors from which the Our non-executive directors possess a range of experience and are Glencore nominated directors were excluded due to a conflict of sufficiently high calibre to bring independent judgement to bear of interest were held.
Details of directors attendance at meetings on issues of strategy, performance and resources that are vital to of the Board and of its standing committees are shown below.
In addition, separate meetings were held with the non-executive Our Board is satisfied that it met and continues to meet the directors without the executive directors being present, and without requirements of the Code in maintaining an effective Board which the Chairman, and by all the directors without the Glencore is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
There are four formally constituted committees of the Board.
The role and work of these committees is described in Board balance and independence detail on pages 42 to 44.
All Board and committee meetings are Six of our non-executive directors excluding the Chairman are held in Switzerland.
considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement, including David Rough, Sir Steve Robson and Ian Strachan who have been directors of the Company for more than nine years.
Three directors, Ivan Glasenberg, Telis Mistakidis and Tor Peterson, were nominated for election by Glencore to the Board at the Annual General Meeting under the terms of the Relationship Agreement dated 20 March 2002 between Xstrata and Glencore AG.
Ivan Glasenberg is the Chief Executive Officer of Glencore International plc.
The Board has considered these associations and considers that the industry expertise and experience of the Glencore nominated directors is beneficial to our business.
Matters reserved for the Board Our Board is responsible for: the governance of the Group on behalf of shareholders within a framework of policies and controls that provide for effective risk assessment and management: leadership and articulation of our objectives and strategy to achieve those objectives: and setting standards of conduct, as documented in an approved Statement of Business Principles and a detailed Code of Conduct, which provide an ethical framework for all our businesses.
com Attendance at Board and committee meetings Board AuditRemuneration HSECNominations Meetings in the year 9 3 3 3 2 Sir John Bond 9 3 2 David Rough 93 3 3 2 Mick Davis 9 3 Con Fauconnier 9 3 3 Ivan Glasenberg 4 from 4 Peter Hooley 93 Claude Lamoureux 8 3 3 Aristotelis Mistakidis 4 from 4 Tor Peterson 4 from 4 Trevor Reid 9 Sir Steve Robson 9 3 2 Ian Strachan 83 3 Santiago Zaldumbide 8 Chairman and Chief Executive Appointment of directors There is a clear separation between the responsibilities of our The rules for the replacement and appointment of directors are set Chairman and Chief Executive.
This is documented in a statement out in the Articles of Association.
Directors may only be appointed approved by the Board and complies with the UK Corporate by the shareholders of the Company by ordinary resolution and not Governance Code.
by the Board of directors.
Under the terms of a Relationship Agreement to which the Company is a party with Glencore dated The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring 20 March 2002, Glencore, as a significant shareholder of Xstrata, its effectiveness in all aspects of its role by promoting a culture of can nominate up to three directors or if lower or higher such openness and debate, and by facilitating the contribution of nonnumber of directors equal to one less than the number of directors executive directors.
He is also responsible for ensuring that good who are independent directors, provided that there is at all times a communication is maintained with shareholders, that all directors majority of independent directors on the Board.
At present, Glencore are made aware of the major shareholders issues and concerns, and has three nominated directors on the Board, Ivan Glasenberg, Telis that the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a Mistakidis and Tor Peterson.
His duties also include ensuring that the directors continually update their skills and their knowledge of and understanding of our Re-election of directors business.
To this end, he is required to hold regular one-to-one In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors discussions with each director regarding their training and will retire at the forthcoming AGM on 16 May 2013 and all directors development needs.
will offer themselves for re-election.
The Chief Executive has executive responsibility for running the Further details about the directors standing for re-election, their business.
His responsibilities include evaluating and recommending skills and experience, and their roles within the Group are given strategic policy and direction for Board consideration: reviewing in the directors biographies on pages 36 and 37. and recommending for Board consideration and approval the annual New appointments to the Board financial statements, annual business plans and budgets, and interim In consequence of the approval by shareholders on 20 November accounts: maintaining effective risk management and internal control 2012 of the recommended all-share merger, the Board agreed that systems including financial, operational and compliance controls: no new appointments to the board should be recommended to facilitating the production of detailed proposals and reviews for shareholders at the AGM.
Board meetings: and providing the Board with accurate, timely and clear information.
Information and professional development The Board is provided periodically with reports on changes in UK David Rough is the Deputy Chairman and the Senior Independent laws and regulation, and Glencores nominated directors brief the Director.
His role and responsibilities as the Senior Independent Board on market conditions and developments.
The Board is also Director are to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and kept informed through circulated monthly reports which include to serve as an intermediary for the other directors when necessary, macroeconomic, financial, operational and sustainability performance and that he should be available to shareholders if they have indicators and commentary.
concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman or Chief Executive has failed to resolve or for which such contact Directors may take independent professional advice at the is inappropriate.
Companys expense to assist them perform their duties.
They have access to the advice and services of our Company Secretary, who is Performance evaluation responsible for ensuring that the Board complies with all governance Board evaluation is normally undertaken annually, and every three matters and assists with professional development as required.
years is conducted by an external facilitator.
As a consequence of the Directors are provided with regular updates and information about recommended all-share merger of equals of Glencore International changes and proposed changes to laws and regulations that affect and Xstrata and the subsequent approval by shareholders on the Group or its businesses: there are special arrangements, 20 November 2012, a decision was taken not to undertake including site visits, to ensure they are familiar with our operations: an evaluation of the Boards own performance and that of its and they are offered opportunities for professional and skills training.
Committees and of its individual directors on the grounds that there would be no change in the composition of the Board until the completion of the merger.
com 39 Corporate Governance report continued Remuneration focus on project assurance which will require us to employ Our remuneration policy and practices aim to attract, retain and independent engineers to work with our internal audit team motivate the high-performing individuals we rely on to deliver our on major project management reviews.
business strategy and create long-term value.
We believe that Control environment performance-related pay should incentivise exceptional performance Our key established elements and procedures to provide an effective and that rewards should be closely linked to and commensurate risk management and internal control system are as follows: with performance.
i Organisational structure Our remuneration policy and practices are covered in the We have a well-defined organisational structure with clear operating Remuneration report on pages 45 to 58 and a description of the procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
We work of the Remuneration Committee is provided on page 43. operate a decentralised management model.
The Board sets overall policy, but delegates authority to implement this policy to relevant Accountability and audit commodity business units and supporting functions.
Our commodity Financial reporting business units are responsible for implementing business plans within The Board is mindful of its responsibility to present a balanced and budgets approved by the Board and in accordance with clear assessment of the Companys position and prospects, and the authorisation levels.
Board is satisfied that it has met this obligation.
This assessment is primarily provided in the Chief Executives strategic review and the The way in which we conduct our business, what we expect of our Business review contained in this report.
The Statement of directors managers and key accountabilities are embodied in our policies, responsibilities in respect of the Group and Parent Company financial our Statement of Business Principles, Code of Conduct, Sustainable statements is set out on page 64.
Development Standards and the Board level authority limits.
Risk management and internal control ii Risk identification and evaluation General The Board considers effective risk management as essential to the Our Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of achievement of our objectives and has implemented a structured the significant risks the Group will manage in order to achieve our and comprehensive system across the Group.
The Group Risk strategic business objectives.
Every year, it reviews the effectiveness Management Policy is published on the Xstrata website at: of our risk management and internal control systems, which cover http: www.
com investors policies riskmanagement all material financial, operational, compliance, reputational and sustainable development risks, in accordance with the Turnbull Our approach to risk management is value-driven.
This review relies on assessments undertaken by objective is to ensure an environment where we can confidently our Audit Committee supported by the commodity business grow shareholder value through developing and protecting our audit committees.
people, our assets, our environment and our reputation.
Our risk management processes are thorough and robust and an essential An ongoing process has been established for identifying, evaluating element of our approach to business planning.
and managing the significant risks faced by our business.
The Audit Committee reviews this process and the effectiveness of the system Our corporate offices and commodity business units carry out a of internal control by considering the regular reports from comprehensive annual risk review and update their risk registers management on key risks, mitigating actions and internal controls, accordingly.
Objectives in the business plan are aligned with management representations and assertions and the reports on risk risks, and a summary of the key risks, related internal controls, management and internal control from internal audit, the external accountabilities and planned mitigating actions are appended auditors and other assurance providers such as sustainable to the business plan that is reviewed and approved by our Executive development management.
The review excludes associates of Committee and is reviewed by the Board.
the Group where Xstrata management does not have the ability Progress against plans, significant changes in the business risk profile to dictate or modify the internal controls of these entities.
and actions taken to address controls and mitigate risks are reported The principal aim of our risk management and internal control at each commodity business audit committee and Xstrata plc Audit systems is the management of business risks that are significant Committee meetings, as well as to our Executive Committee and the to the fulfilment of the Groups strategic objectives with a view Board, as and when necessary.
to enhancing the value of the shareholders investment and The output of the process has been reviewed by the Group and safeguarding of assets.
Our internal control systems have been commodity business audit committees, and accords with the designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Turnbull Guidance.
achieve business objectives and provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
iii Information and financial reporting systems The Groups comprehensive financial reporting procedures include A Risk Management and Internal Control Framework covers topics detailed operational budgets for the year ahead and a plan for the including the organisational structure, policies, philosophies and following two years.
A detailed updated Group forecast is prepared accountabilities, ethics, responsibilities and reporting.
It describes on a monthly basis and forecast performance is compared to the our risk management and internal control system in depth and allows budget.
A detailed variance analysis is prepared comparing both this to be effectively communicated across our businesses.
To keep forecast performance to budget and analysing movements in the up-to-date with the dynamic nature of our business and continuous forecast from month to month.
These forecasts and reports enable changes in our structure, this document is updated annually.
management to monitor performance throughout the year and to Internal audit is an important element of the overall process by which take relevant and timely action.
our Executive Committee and Board seeks the assurance that risks Comprehensive monthly management reports for each business unit are properly identified, evaluated and managed.
Risk-based internal and on a Group consolidated basis, including updated forecasts for audit plans, which are prepared on an annual basis, are approved by the year, are prepared and presented to the Executive Committee the Audit Committee.
The Board receives monthly detailed We use external service providers to supplement our Group-wide consolidated management accounts, together with an executive internal audit function when we do not have the appropriate skills summary from our Chief Executive.
This will become particularly relevant as we move into a phase of higher capital spend with an increased 40 Xstrata | Annual Report 2012 | www.
com iv Investment appraisal vii Group Policies and Business Principles Commodity businesses submit planned expansionary capital All our businesses are expected to operate within the board expenditure as part of the annual budget and planning process.
level authority limits and the Group policies that govern inter alia: Budgeted capital expenditure includes full development capital Statement of Business Principles: Code of Conduct: Sustainable for approved projects as well as those that are highly likely to be Development: Corporate Social Involvement: Treasury: Group Risk submitted for approval before the end of the following year.
Study Management: Bribery, Fraud and Corruption: Group Investor, Media and other related costs in relation to early stage projects are also and Public Communications: Data Protection and Privacy: Inside included but full development capital expenditure is not.
Our overall Information and Securities Dealing: Information Security and AntiGroup capital expenditure budget and plan is reviewed and trust competition law.
approved by both the Executive Committee and the Board.
viii Further initiatives All items of capital expenditure, including major organic projects We are committed to the ongoing review and improvement of our and acquisitions, are submitted for approval throughout the year policies, systems and processes.
in accordance with delegated authority limits.
Capital expenditure We have a control self-assessment process in place through which submissions include financial, technical and sustainable development the Chief Executive of each business unit is required to sign a letter evaluations.
Financial analysis includes an evaluation of the projects of representation covering a wide range of topics at both the net present value NPV calculated on a life-of-mine project model half-year and year-end, which are presented to the business unit using our latest quarterly macroeconomics assumptions Group audit committees.
assumptions and a risk-adjusted discount rate which reflects specific country and project risk: internal rate of return IRR : payback period: Relations with shareholders and the commodity price at which the proposed project breaks even.
Dialogue with shareholders Sensitivity analysis on key value drivers is performed, and for major Our Board places considerable importance on effective projects this is often supplemented with additional risk analysis such communication with shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Chief as Monte Carlo simulation.
Major projects or acquisitions that require Financial Officer, assisted by the Executive General Manager of the approval of either our Chief Executive, Executive Committee or Group Strategy and Corporate Affairs, maintained a regular dialogue the Board are assessed in the context of whether the proposal is and series of briefings with analysts and institutional investors consistent with our strategic aims, our operational capacity to throughout the year.
We also operate a structured programme execute the project within an acceptable risk tolerance, and any of investor and analyst site visits.
Care is taken to ensure that Group funding constraints.
Project progress against budgeted any price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders, capital expenditure and project milestones are reported in the institutional and private, at the same time, in accordance with monthly Group management report and discussed at both the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the SIX Swiss Executive Committee and Board meetings.
Procedures are also in place for peer review and the early Our Chairman and Senior Independent Director were available involvement of independent technical experts to review and provide to shareholders to hear any concerns that contact with the Group independent assurance on major capital projects.
Reviews are carried Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer failed to resolve out after the project is complete, and for some projects during or for which such contact was inappropriate.
the construction period, to monitor progress against plan: major overruns and non-conformance to sustainable development goals All shareholders can obtain access to the annual reports and are investigated.
other current information about Xstrata through its website at www.
The Business review on pages 20 to 30 include Acquisitions to complement our commodity business organic growth a detailed report on the business and future developments.
strategy, and which are aligned to our overall Group Strategy, are generally initiated and executed by business development teams Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting with close co-operation from the corporate centre.
All directors normally attend Xstratas AGM.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet directors v Treasury committee after the formal proceedings have ended.
At the AGM on 1 May Treasury Committee operates as a sub-committee of the Xstrata 2012, the Chairman and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, Schweiz AG Executive Committee.
It comprises the Chief Executive, Nominations and Health, Safety, Environment and Community the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Treasurer and Group Committees were present to answer questions.
The Committee recommends Group policy, which is and directors were also available to meet with shareholders at the submitted to our Board for approval, relating to all aspects of Extraordinary General meetings held on 12 July 2012, 7 September funding, management of interest rate and foreign exchange 2012 and 20 November 2012.
Details of the resolutions to be exposures.
It also coordinates relationships with banks, rating proposed at the AGM on 16 May 2013 can be found in the Notice of agencies and other financial institutions.
Our Board has determined that voting on all resolutions at the all significant treasury activities undertaken by our commodity AGM will be through a poll.
Each member present in person or by business divisions and units to ensure they comply with its proxy has one vote for each fully paid ordinary share of which they recommended policy.
vi Business Principles and Code of Conduct We offer independent confidential whistleblower hotlines in the Board committees countries in which we operate so that our employees, contractors The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations or other parties can report any breach of our Business Principles and and HSEC Committees are available on the Companys website: Code of Conduct including bribery, fraud or corruption.
com about management boardcommittee details are published in the Statement of Business Principles which can be found at: www.
com sustainability policies businessprinciples Xstrata | Annual Report 2012 | www.
com 41 Corporate Governance report continued Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and Members internal control systems, including the scope of and the results of Peter Hooley Committee Chairman Independent testing of the systems by the internal auditors: at each meeting Claude Lamoureux Independent reports on findings and progress on recommendations are David Rough Independent received, including reports on the project management and Ian Strachan Independent delivery of major projects: Responsibilities reviewed the Groups treasury, hedging, tax and pension The Audit Committee is responsible for providing our Board affairs and the structure and limits of the Groups with a critical and independent oversight of the Groups financial insurance arrangements: reporting and audit processes: reviewing compliance with the received reports on the resilience of IT systems and their disaster Turnbull Guidance, specifically with reference to the effectiveness recovery plans: of our internal controls and risk management systems: reviewing and monitoring the independence of our external auditor and reviewed reports on ethics training and on whistleblowing to engage their non-audit services: and reviewing our ethical and fraud-related matters and their resolution, and the status standards of business behaviour, including bribery, fraud and of procedural compliance with Xstratas Bribery, Fraud and whistleblowing procedures.
Corruption Policy: All members of the Committee are financially literate and the reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit function and Committee Chairman, Peter Hooley is considered by the Board approved the plans for 2013: and to have recent and relevant financial experience.
conducted and was satisfied with, an assessment of its own Our Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group Controller, effectiveness and that, all matters required by law, regulation representatives of our external auditors and the Head of Internal and good corporate governance, including the duties and Audit normally attend the Audit Committee meetings, but are responsibilities delegated to it by the Board, were satisfactorily not allowed to vote.
Invitations to attend meetings may also be covered by the Committee.
extended to other directors and managers.
To ensure best practice Following each Committee meeting, separate meetings were held by across the Group, the chairmen of each commodity business unit the Committee with the external auditors in the absence of executive audit committee and their chief executives are also invited to attend management, with executive management in the absence of the Audit Committee meetings on a rotational basis every other year.
external auditors and with the internal auditor in the absence of The Audit Committee met three times during the year ended executive management and the external auditors.
31 December 2012: after each meeting, the chairman Peter Hooley reported on its proceedings to the Board.
The Group has a specific policy governing the conduct of non-audit work by the external auditors which ensures that we comply with the A member of the Audit Committee also attends the meetings requirements of the Combined Code, the FRC Guidance on Audit of the commodity business audit committees to help promote Committees and the Ethical Standards for Auditors published by the a co-ordinated and consistent approach among the Groups Auditing Practices Board.
The policy is available on Xstratas website audit committees.
The auditors are permitted to During the year under review, the Committee: provide non-audit services that are not in conflict with auditor independence and objectivity.
At each meeting, reports are reviewed the 2011 preliminary results and annual financial submitted to the Audit Committee detailing non-audit fees paid statements and in so doing reviewed managements and the to the external auditors.
A range of non-audit services have been external auditors detailed reports thereon, the appropriateness pre-approved in principle by the Audit Committee, however, where of the Groups accounting policies, it continuing as a going the fee for those pre-approved services is likely to be less than concern, asset impairment charges, litigation, taxation and $250,000 prior approval of the Chief Financial Officer is required, other judgemental matters and recommended their approval where the fee is likely to be more than $250,000 but less than by the Board: $500,000 for such services, prior approval of the Chairman of the reviewed Related Party transactions for 2011, and reviewed Audit Committee is required, and where the fee is likely to be in the procedures and processes leading to the publication of excess of $500,000, prior approval of the Committee is required.
the Reserves and Resources Report which was reviewed by an Fees paid to our auditors for audit services, audit-related services independent expert to ensure consistency of reporting across and other non-audit services per service type are detailed in note 10 the Group and with international standards.
It was noted that no to the financial statements on page 93.
Our external auditors, Ernst & shortcomings of any significance in the assessment or reporting Young, were requested to provide certain non-audit services when it of Reserves and Resources had been identified: was concluded they were the most appropriate supplier due to their reviewed the 2012 half yearly report in a like manner as the annual knowledge of the business, efficiency, cost effectiveness and status financial statements: as a leading firm for the specific services being requested.
reviewed the external auditors plan and scope for the audit of The Audit Committee is supported and assisted in its work by the 2012 financial statements, and approved their remuneration separate audit committees for each business unit in line with and terms of engagement both for audit and non-audit work.
the Groups decentralised commodity business unit model.
It considered and approved the engagement of the auditors The commodity business unit audit committees are independent in respect of non-audit assignments: of the executive management of the business unit and are chaired by suitably qualified individuals independent of Xstrata.
The terms recommended to the Board the reappointment of the external of reference of these committees follow those of Xstratas Audit auditors following confirmation of their objectivity and Committee.
Meeting dates precede those of Xstratas Audit independence, and a satisfactory evaluation of their effectiveness: Committee and minutes of their meetings are circulated to Xstratas Audit Committee.
com Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee and subsequent recommendations made Members to the Board.
David Rough Committee Chairman During the year under review, the Committee: Sir John Bond Company Chairman Con Fauconnier Independent in consequence of the recommended all-share merger with Sir Steve Robson Independent Glencore, recommended to the board that no new appointments to the board will be made: and Responsibilities The Remuneration Committee is responsible for considering and agreed the format and process for the annual Board evaluation determining all elements of the remuneration of our Chief Executive, to be conducted internally to be undertaken in the event the Chief Financial Officer and members of our Executive Committee shareholders did not approve the recommended merger.
and for determining targets for any performance-related pay schemes.
At its meetings, the Remuneration Committee makes Health, Safety, Environment and Community Committee recommendations to the Board in regard to all elements of the Members remuneration for these individuals after receiving independent Ian Strachan Committee Chairman advice on benchmarking and best practice and after taking into Mick Davis Chief Executive Officer account general pay practices for all Xstrata employees.
The Con Fauconnier Independent remuneration of non-executive directors, other than the Chairman, Claude Lamoureux Independent is approved by our Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Chairmans David Rough Independent remuneration is determined by the Remuneration Committee while Responsibilities he is absent.
The Health, Safety, Environment and Community Committee HSEC The Committee met three times during the year.
The Chief Executive is responsible for reviewing and making recommendations to the attends meetings by invitation but does not participate at a meeting Board on the direction, appropriateness and effectiveness of our of the Committee or during the relevant part at which any part of his Sustainable Development Strategy, management approach and remuneration is being discussed or participate in any governance, and performance.
It also reviews the outcomes of all recommendation or decision concerning his remuneration.
investigations into fatalities and critical incidents and keeps the Board informed of new developments, trends and or forthcoming During the year under review, the Committee: significant legislation on sustainable development matters which may determined bonuses for 2011 and 2012 performance for the be relevant to the our operations, its assets or employees.
For 2012, executive directors and members of the Executive Committee: Xstrata is not planning to publish a standalone Sustainability Report anymore, but issue a combined sustainability report for Glencore approved the Remuneration report for the 2011 Annual Report: Xstrata in the second half of 2013.
However, the Annual Report 2012 approved the number of share options and contingent share will continue to contain the same key sustainability performance awards to be awarded under the 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan information as in previous years.
LTIP and the individual awards to members of the Executive During the year under review, the Committee: Committee: and monitored and evaluated reports on the effectiveness of Xstratas approved salary increases for members for the Sustainable Development Policy, Sustainable Development Executive Committee.
Standards, Sustainable Development strategy and Sustainable Details of Xstratas remuneration for executive directors, benefits, Development assurance: share options, retirement benefit entitlements, service contracts and reviewed Xstrata Coppers sustainability strategy and performance, compensation payments are given in the Remuneration report on which included a focus on community engagement and related pages 45 to 58.
A resolution to approve the Remuneration report shared value concepts.
The Committee noted the outstanding will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
safety performance as expressed in the reduction in TRIFR, the challenges of managing safety with contractors, and the progress Nominations Committee on linking safety better with risk management.
Further the Members Committee noted the external recognition and rewards that Sir John Bond Committee and Company Chairman Xstrata Copper has received for its sustainability achievements: David Rough Independent Sir Steve Robson Independent reviewed Xstrata Zincs sustainable development programme, which included a focus on the materiality process of Xstrata Zinc Responsibilities and how related initiatives and targets have been determined The Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing to continuously drive sustainability performance.
Particular the structure, size and composition including the skills, discussions were around stakeholder engagement processes, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and making fatality prevention programmes, climate change, and management recommendations with regard to any changes: identifying and of exposure to hazardous substances.
The Committee noted the nominating candidates for election: evaluating the balance of achievements, in particular a reduction in TRIFR of 45% over 2009: skills, knowledge and experience and, in the light of this evaluation, preparation of a description of the role and capabilities required reviewed Xstrata Nickels sustainability strategy and performance, for a particular appointment.
with a focus on current issues, challenges and initiatives, in particular around the social licence to operate and initiatives The Nominations Committee considers candidates from a wide maintained and developed to ensure the continued support range of backgrounds.
Nominations are based on merit but objective of the communities in the locations where Xstrata Nickel operates.
criteria, such as the benefits of a diverse Board, are considered The Committee noted the strategic objectives which are zero as well, as whether the candidates have enough time available to harm in health and safety: proactive stakeholder engagement: devote to the position.
It also gives full consideration to succession demonstrate environmental stewardship: social responsibility, planning for directors and other senior executives, taking into and enabling objectives such as standards, leadership or assurance account any challenges and opportunities our business may face, and and reporting, and putting in place the initiatives to address the skills and expertise needed on the Board in the future.
Directors those objectives: potential conflict of interest situations are also considered by the Xstrata | Annual Report 2012 | www.
com 43 Corporate Governance report continued reviewed the Sustainable Development half-year summary report, and noted the ongoing initiatives around better sharing learning from high potential risk incidents: monitored and evaluated reports on high potential risk incidents and the results of investigations into fatalities and other critical HSEC incidents.
There were seven critical incidents during the year, including five fatalities.
This represents a decrease from eleven critical incidents, including six fatalities in 2011: reviewed safety performance and statistics, and Group initiatives to improve safety performance throughout the business: approved the contents of the 2011 Xstrata plc Sustainability Report and noted that it fulfilled the requirements of the socially responsible investment community and other key stakeholders and initiatives: reviewed the three core elements of the Xstrata Group assurance programme i. e. assurance of the annual Sustainability report: SD standards audit: and SD risk audits undertaken by Group internal audit : particularly reviewing the status of operationally focused SD risk audits conducted by internal audit.
The Committee noted that the reports generally provided assurance to management and the Board that high-risk areas of the business are being managed appropriately and that an adequate control framework is in place: reviewed the integration and treatment of SD in Xstratas risk management framework and processes: and noted the Companys leadership position in sustainable development in the mining sector.
Xstrata again achieved a leading position in its industry in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexs World and STOXX Indexes, after having been named the resources sector leader for five years.
This is the sixth year that Xstrata has been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes of sustainability leaders.
Executive Committee Members Mick Davis Chairman, also Xstrata plc Chief Executive Trevor Reid Chief Financial Officer Santiago Zaldumbide Xstrata Zinc Charlie Sartain Xstrata Copper Peter Freyberg Xstrata Coal Ian Pearce Xstrata Nickel Benny Levene Chief Legal Counsel Thras Moraitis Executive General Manager, Group Strategy and Corporate Affairs Responsibilities The Executive Committee is a committee of the Board of Xstrata Schweiz AG, the main operating subsidiary of Xstrata plc.
The Executive Committee obtains its responsibility and authority from the Xstrata Schweiz AG Board and is directly accountable to the Xstrata plc Board.
Other members of senior management are invited to attend Executive Committee meetings as required.
The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing strategy, approval of matters consistent with its delegated levels of authority and overseeing the various businesses that comprise the Group.
It meets regularly during the year.
No meetings are held in the United Kingdom.
