Governance 1 2 3 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Our business model See page 17 Corporate governance is the system by which companies are Compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance directed and controlled.
Boards of directors are responsible for the Code governance of their companies.
The shareholders role in governance The Company was compliant with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code throughout 2012. is to appoint the directors and the auditors and to satisfy themselves that an appropriate governance structure is in place.
The In September 2012, a number of changes were made to the UK responsibilities of the board include setting the companys strategic Corporate Governance Code.
Whilst compliance with this revised aims, providing the leadership to put them into effect, supervising code is not required until next year, the Board accepts that it the management of the business and reporting to shareholders on represents an authoritative statement of best practice and, as their stewardship.
The boards actions are subject to laws, such, it has reviewed its practices relative to it and this is reflected regulations and the shareholders in general meeting.
in additional information included within this report.
Cadbury Committee Report December 1992 The Board In 2012, the Board was scheduled to meet seven times and, in addition, two days were spent reviewing strategy.
Additional Board meetings are called as required and in total the Board met nine times during the year.
The attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and its committees in 2012 is shown in the table below.
Attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and its committees in 2012 Corporate Non-Executive Audit Responsibility Nominations Remuneration Directors Fees Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Mr P M Anderson 9 9 4 4 4 4 Ms H Green 9 9 4 4 Mr M J Hartnall 1 2 Ms L P Hudson 8 9 1 1 Mr I G King 9 9 1 1 Mr P J Lynas 9 9 Sir Peter Mason 9 9 6 6 3 4 3 4 Mr L A McIntire 8 9 6 7 Mr R L Olver 9 9 4 4 1 1 Ms P Rosput Reynolds 9 9 6 6 Mr N C Rose 8 9 6 6 7 7 Mr C G Symon 9 9 7 7 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
Risk management and internal control The Board considers all of the non-executive directors, with the BAE Systems has developed a system of internal control that was in exception of the Chairman, to be independent for the purposes of place throughout 2012 and to the date of this report, that the Code.
Each of these directors has been identified on pages 78 encompasses, amongst other things, the policies, processes, and 79 of this report.
tasks and behaviours that, taken together, seek to: The Board appointed Nick Rose as its Senior Independent Director facilitate the effective and efficient operation of the Company: with effect from 21 January 2013.
Amongst the duties undertaken by Mr Rose since that date was to meet with the non-executive enable it to respond appropriately to significant operational, directors without the Chairman present to discuss the Chairmans financial, compliance and other risks that it faces in carrying out performance.
its business: In 2012, having served as a director for nine years, Sir Peter assist in ensuring that internal and external reporting is accurate Masons term of office was extended for a period of 12 months to and timely, and based on the maintenance of proper records 21 January 2013.
The Board has asked Sir Peter to continue as a supported by robust  processes: and director until the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 8May 2013.
Consequently, the Board has considered whether in assist in ensuring that the Company complies with applicable respect of the period 22 January to 8 May 2013 he continues to be laws and regulations at all times, and also internal policies in independent notwithstanding his length of service.
The Board used respect of the standards of behaviour and conduct mandated by its externally facilitated annual evaluation process to provide Board the Board.
members with the opportunity to consider individually whether they On pages 44 and 45 of this report, you will find details of the believed that Sir Peter remained independent.
The directors processes the Company has put in place to manage risk.
For the concluded that he remains independent and, in reaching this Board, the key requirements are that the Company has robust decision, the Board noted that his period of office had not coincided processes to identity, evaluate and manage risk, and that the to any significant degree with that of any of the current executive directors have visibility of the major risks.
Risks are identified on a bottom-up basis as part of the Companys The Companys Articles of Association require that all new directors Operational Assurance Statement OAS process.
This process is seek re-election to the Board at the following AGM.
In addition, the mandated across the Group, and requires that the heads of all Board has agreed that in compliance with the UK Corporate businesses and functions identify their key risks.
As part of this Governance Code, all directors shall seek re-election on an annual process, an assessment is made of the probability of the risk basis.
The Board has set out in the Notice of Annual General arising and its potential impact on the Groups business plan.
All Meeting its reasons for supporting those directors seeking risks have an owner who is responsible for preparation and re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
implementation of plans aimed at mitigating the risk.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 83 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED processes is equally important.
The consistent application of The key financial and non-financial risks identified by the world-class control processes is a key management objective.
The businesses from the risk assessment processes are collated and Company is committed to the protection of its assets, which include reviewed by the Executive Committee to identify those issues where human, property and financial resources, through an effective risk the cumulative risk, or possible reputational impacts, could be management process, underpinned where appropriate by insurance.
The Internal Audit team independently reviews the risk identification Management responsibility for the management of the Groups procedures and control processes implemented by management.
It most significant non-financial risks is allocated at the Executive provides objective assurance as to the operation and validity of the Committees risk workshops.
The OAS and Non-financial Risk systems of internal control through a programme of cyclical reviews registers are reviewed regularly by the Executive Committee to monitor the status and progression of mitigation plans, and these making recommendations for business and control improvements key risks are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the ongoing The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility for effectiveness of the Companys risk management processes as reviewing in detail the effectiveness of the Companys system of part of its review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
Having undertaken such reviews, the Committee twice a year, the Audit Committee receives reports on the output reports to the Board on its findings so that the Board as a whole can from the OAS process, details of the changes in the risks identified take a view on this matter.
In order to assist the Audit Committee by it and the status of mitigation plans.
The Corporate and the Board in this review, the Company has developed the OAS Responsibility Committee undertakes a similar role in respect of process.
This has been subject to regular review over several years, the Non-financial Risk Register.
The Board receives reports from the which has resulted in a number of refinements being made.
chairmen of these two committees, providing details of the work The overall responsibility for the system of internal control within they have undertaken.
BAE Systems rests with the directors of the Company.
Each year, the Board specifically reviews the risks identified in the Responsibility for establishing and operating detailed control risk management processes.
This is aimed at providing the Board procedures lies with the line leaders of each operating business.
with an appreciation of the key risks within the business and In line with any system of internal control, the policies and oversight of how they are being managed.
processes that are mandated in the Operational Framework are Reporting within the Company is structured so that key issues are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to escalated through the management team ultimately to the Board if achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and appropriate.
The Operational Framework provides a common not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
framework across the Company for operational and financial The responsibility for internal control procedures with joint ventures controls, and is reviewed on a regular basis by the Board.
The and other collaborations rests, on the whole, with the senior business policies and processes detailed within the Operational management of those operations.
BAE Systems employees on the Framework draw on global best practice and their application is boards of such entities are required to exert such influence as the mandated across the organisation.
Lifecycle Management LCM is Company may have to encourage the adoption of a governance such a process, and promotes the application of best practice structure that is substantially equivalent to the Operational programme execution and facilitates continuous improvement Framework.
It considers the whole life of projects from inception to delivery into service and eventual disposal, and its Going concern application is critical to our capability in delivering projects to The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to schedule and cost.
affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Reporting segment reviews on pages 56 to 75.
The financial Further key processes are Integrated Business Planning IBP, position of the Group, including information on cash flow, treasury Quarterly Business Reviews QBR and Total Performance policy and liquidity, can be found in the Financial Performance Leadership TPL.
The IBP, approved annually by the Board, results section on pages 30 to 38.
Principal risks are detailed on pages 46 in a five-year business plan for each business, together with to 51.
In addition, the financial statements include, amongst other detailed near-term budgets.
The QBRs evaluate progress against things, notes on finance costs page 129, loans and overdrafts the IBP, and business performance against objectives, measures page 153, and financial risk management page 164. and milestones.
TPL drives business success by linking individual goals to those of the organisation, enabling employees to After making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable understand how their own success contributes to the success of expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue the whole business.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Whilst the quality of the control processes is fundamental to the accounts.
overall control environment, the consistent application of these Performance evaluation BOARD INSIGHTS The Board undertakes an annual review of its own performance.
In the last few years it has employed the services of an external facilitator, Sheena Crane.
She is an independent consultant, with experience of working at the most senior levels in major companies.
Within BAE Systems, her only work is with the Board and with the Executive Committee, where she has undertaken similar performance evaluation work.
She was appointed to perform her Board evaluation work in consultation with the Nominations Committee.
Her evaluation process is based on one-to-one interviews with each of the directors and recording their views on how the Board and its committees work, and on the performance of individual directors.
84 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Governance The principles on which the Code is based are those of openness, 1.
Approving the Companys vision, values, principles of ethical integrity and accountability.
Openness on the part conduct, delegated authorities and overall governance of companies, within the limits set by their competitive position, is structure.
the basis for the confidence which needs to exist between business 2.
Approving all financial and commercial matters that it has and all those who have a stake in its success.
An open approach to reserved for its decision.
the disclosure of information contributes to the efficient working of the market economy, prompts boards to take effective action and 3.
Approval of the Companys strategy and business plan.
allows shareholders and others to scrutinise companies more thoroughly.
Approval of the Companys annual report and accounts, and the preliminary and interim statements.
Approval of any distributions to shareholders including the Applying the principles of the UKs Corporate Governance Code approval of any interim dividend payments and any The following report details how the Board has applied the main recommendations to shareholders concerning final principles in the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate dividends.
Governance Code the Code, as required by the UK Listing Rules.
Approval of any significant changes to accounting policies or practices.
Leadership Principles An effective board collectively responsible for the 7.
"Appointment or removal of any director or the Company MPOH UFSN TVDDFTT PG UIF DPNQBOZ r "" DMFBS EJWJTJPO PG Secretary."
responsibilities at the head of the company between the running 8.
Approval of all circulars, prospectuses and other documents of the board and the executive.
No one individual should have sent to shareholders except for documents of a routine VOGFUUFSFE QPXFST PG EFDJTJPO r 5IF DIBJSNBO JT SFTQPOTJCMF GPS nature.
the leadership of the board and ensuring its effectiveness on all BTQFDUT PG JUT SPMF r PO FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST TIPVME DPOTUSVDUJWFMZ 9.
Approving the issuing and allotment of shares, changes to the challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
capital structure of the Company, its legal status as a public company, the listing of its shares and its name.
The Companys governance structure is based on the leadership 10.
Recommending to shareholders the appointment, principles in the Code.
The core activities of the Board and its re-appointment or removal of the Companys auditors.
committees are documented and planned on an annual basis, and this forms the basic structure within which the Board operates.
Forming committees of the Board and approving their terms Board has adopted a document, the Board Charter, in which there is of reference.
a statement of governance principles that reflect principles 12.
Approval of the Board Charter including this schedule of contained in the Code, and covers the following: reserved matters and the Operational Framework a Strategy reviewing and agreeing strategy: document detailing the Companys vision, values, delegated authorities and overall governance structure.
Performance monitoring the performance of the Group and also evaluating its own performance: Whilst the Board is ultimately responsible for the success of the Standards and values setting standards and values to guide the Company, given the size and complexity of its operations, all but the affairs of the Group: most important matters are managed on a delegated basis by the Chief Executive and the executives working for him.
The Board Oversight ensuring an effective system of internal controls is in appoints the Chief Executive and monitors his performance in place, ensuring that the Board receives timely and accurate leading the Company, and providing operational and performance information on the performance of the Group and the proper management in delivering the agreed strategy.
delegation of authority: and The Board and its committees monitor the application of values, People ensuring the Group is managed by individuals with the standards and processes.
This includes a range of activities such necessary skills and experience, and that appointments to the as the formal review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
To Board are managed effectively.
ensure that non-executive directors can constructively challenge The Board Charter details the separate and distinct roles of the and help develop proposals on strategy, the Board has adopted a Chairman and the Chief Executive, and also those of the Senior process of reviewing the development of strategy and formally Independent Director and Company Secretary.
It also states that approving the agreed strategy for the Company on an annual basis.
the following matters are reserved specifically for the Board: In 2012, the Board members were provided with opportunities to engage in strategy development through informal meetings and workshops as well as formal Board meetings.
Management resources review Feedback on Board performance is presented to a meeting of the The Nominations Committee undertakes an annual review of Board, which agrees actions and objectives for the following year management resources across the Group.
Facilitated by the Group based on the information the facilitator provides and the conclusions Human Resources Director, the Committee focuses on the detailed that the Board derives from this.
succession plans for all Board and Executive Committee positions, and the strategic development of the Companys management Individual directors are also subject to annual performance resources.
Through the use of the Talent Scorecard, the Committee evaluation, with the Chairman providing feedback to all directors.
has access to metrics showing the Groups performance over time in Committee chairmen also receive feedback on committee populating succession plans appropriately, the level of appointments performance.
sourced internally and externally, age profiles across levels within The Chairmans performance is discussed at a meeting of nonsuccession plans, diversity at different management levels and executive directors.
Following this meeting, the Senior Independent attrition rates.
Director meets with the Chairman to provide him with feedback on his performance during the year.
Subject to continued satisfactory performance, directors seek re-election on an annual basis.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 85 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED On appointment, all non-executive directors are advised of the likely Effectiveness time commitments and are asked to seek approval from the Principles Board and committees having an appropriate balance Nominations Committee if they wish to take on additional external of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the appointments.
"The ability of individual directors to allocate company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and sufficient time to the discharge of their responsibilities is SFTQPOTJCJMJUJFT FGGFDUJWFMZ r "" GPSNBM SJHPSPVT BOE USBOTQBSFOU considered as part of the directors annual evaluation process QSPDFEVSF GPS UIF BQQPJOUNFOU PG OFX EJSFDUPST r ""MM EJSFDUPST UP overseen by the Chairman."
"An induction programme is agreed for all be able to allocate sufficient time to the company to discharge new directors aimed at ensuring that they are able to develop an UIFJS SFTQPOTJCJMJUJFT FGGFDUJWFMZ r ""MM EJSFDUPST UP SFDFJWF JOEVDUJPO understanding and awareness of the Companys core processes, on joining and should regularly update and refresh skills and its people and businesses."
In addition, as part of the induction LOPXMFEHF r 5IF CPBSE TIPVME CF TVQQMJFE JO B UJNFMZ NBOOFS process, new directors will typically visit the Groups principal with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it operations in order to meet employees, and gain an understanding UP EJTDIBSHF JUT EVUJFT r 5IF CPBSE TIPVME VOEFSUBLF B GPSNBM BOE of the Groups products and services.
Ongoing training is provided rigorous annual evaluation of its performance, and that of its for the Board and individual directors as required.
"DPNNJUUFFT BOE JOEJWJEVBM EJSFDUPST r ""MM EJSFDUPST TIPVME CF submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued The Chairman, with the assistance of the Chief Executive and satisfactory performance."
Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that directors are supplied with information in a timely manner that is in a form and of Succession planning is used by the Board to deliver two key a quality appropriate to enable them to discharge their duties.
In the responsibilities, firstly to ensure that the Group is managed by normal course of business, such information is provided by the executives with the necessary skills, experience and knowledge, Chief Executive in a regular report to the Board that includes and secondly to ensure that the Board itself has the right balance of information on operational matters, strategic developments, individuals to be able to effectively discharge its responsibilities.
reports on the performance of Group operations, financial The Nominations Committee has specific responsibilities in this performance relative to the business plan, business development, area but the Board as a whole is also involved in overseeing the corporate responsibility and investor relations.
development of management resources in the Group with the aim Accountability of ensuring we have the individuals with the right skills to meet the Principles The board to present a balanced and understandable needs of an increasingly complex and global business.
The BTTFTTNFOU PG UIF DPNQBOZ T QPTJUJPO BOE QSPTQFDUT r 5IF CPBSE procedures for the appointment of non-executive and executive is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the directors are detailed in the Nominations Committee report.
significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic Following review by the Nominations and Corporate Responsibility objectives.
The board should maintain sound risk management committees, the Board adopted the statement shown below to act BOE JOUFSOBM DPOUSPM TZTUFNT r 5IF CPBSE TIPVME FTUBCMJTI GPSNBM as a guide to future Board succession planning activity and to make and transparent arrangements for considering how they should a clear public statement of its support for greater diversity in the apply the corporate reporting and risk management and internal boardroom.
Details of progress against the statement can be found control principles, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship on page 81. with the companys auditor.
This included the following statement in respect of Board diversity: Through this report and, as required, through other periodic It shall have an aspirational target of at least 25% of the Board financial statements, the Board is committed to providing being women by 2015. shareholders with a clear assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The arrangements established by the Board for the In seeking candidates for appointment to the Board, the application of risk management and internal control principles are Nominations Committee shall only engage the services of search detailed on page 83.
The Board has delegated to the Audit consultants who have open and inclusive recruitment processes Committee oversight of the management of the relationship with that draw from an appropriately diverse pool of candidates.
the Companys auditors, further details of which can be found in the It shall report progress against targets and actions taken in the Audit Committee report on page 88.
There are currently three women on the Board 2012 three, 27% 2012 25% of the total membership.
There are three women on the Executive Committee 2012 two, 25% of its total membership 2012 17%, and 20% of the Groups employees are women 2012 19%.
Operational Assurance Statement BOARD INSIGHTS The Operational Assurance Statement OAS process is a key element of the Companys governance that is formed of two parts: a self-assessment of compliance with mandated policies and processes: and a report showing key risks for each business and function.
Managed by the Groups Internal Audit function, an OAS return must be completed every six months by each operational and functional business head, recording their formal review against such matters as compliance with law and regulation, ethical business conduct, financial controls, risk management, compliance with business planning processes, health and safety, conflicts of interest, delegated authorities, appointment of advisers, and product safety.
86 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Governance Remuneration Principles Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality required to run the company successfully, but a company should avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose.
A significant proportion of executive directors remuneration should be structured so as to MJOL SFXBSET UP DPSQPSBUF BOE JOEJWJEVBM QFSGPSNBODF r 5IFSF should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration, and for fixing the remuneration packages of individual directors.
No director should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee responsibility for agreeing remuneration policy, and the individual remuneration of the executive directors, the Chairman, members of the Executive Committee and the Company Secretary see Remuneration report on pages 93 to 113.
The Committee is formed exclusively of independent non-executive directors.
"Relations with shareholders Principles There should be a dialogue with shareholders based PO UIF NVUVBM VOEFSTUBOEJOH PG PCKFDUJWFT r 5IF CPBSE BT B XIPMF has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with TIBSFIPMEFST UBLFT QMBDF r 5IF CPBSE TIPVME VTF UIF ""."
UP communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.
The Company has a well-developed investor relations programme managed by the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Investor Relations Director.
In addition, the Chairman is available to meet with major shareholders and is in regular contact with them so as to keep them informed of progress on corporate governance matters.
In order to assist in developing an understanding of the views of major shareholders, each year the Company commissions a survey of investors undertaken by external consultants.
The results of the survey are presented to the Board.
The Company maintains a comprehensive Investor Relations website that provides, amongst other things, information on investing in BAE Systems and copies of the presentation materials used for key shareholder presentations.
This can be accessed via the Companys website, www.
The Companys AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity to vote on the resolutions put to shareholders either electronically via the Companys website or by post.
All resolutions detailed in the Notice of Meeting are voted on by way of a poll so as to ensure that all votes are counted on the basis of one vote for every share held.
The result of the voting on all resolutions is published on the Companys website.
Where simple yes no answers are not appropriate, an assessment The Audit Committee and the Corporate Responsibility Committee of compliance is required to be made against structured qualitative review the output from the OAS process with the head of Internal guidance.
It is also shared in detail with the Companys Auditors.
The provisions in the OAS concerning joint ventures were revised in 2012 aimed at increasing the level of assurance for such entities.
The completion of a separate OAS is mandated for joint ventures and BAE Systems employees on the boards of these companies are required to exert such influence as the Company may have to encourage the adoption of a governance structure that is substantially equivalent to that mandated for wholly owned or controlled parts of the Group.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 87 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Audit Committee report Nick Rose, Chairman Members Dear Shareholders, Nick Rose Chairman, Sir Peter Mason, An important part of the role of the Audit Committee is its responsibility for reviewing PaulaRosput Reynolds the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, internal control policies, and Governance procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk.
The latter two The Audit Committee was in place throughout areas are integral to the Groups core management processes and the Committee 2012 and held six meetings, plus one joint devotes significant time to their review.
Further information on the risk management meeting with the Corporate Responsibility and internal control systems is provided on page 83.
All its members are independent in One of the key governance requirements of a groups financial statements is for the accordance with the provisions of the Code.
report and accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The co-ordination and Summary of responsibilities review of the Group-wide input into the Annual Report and Accounts is a sizeable Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups exercise performed within an exacting time-frame which runs alongside the formal financial reporting, internal control policies, audit process undertaken by the external Auditors.
and procedures for the identification, Arriving at a position where initially the Audit Committee, and then the Board, are assessment and reporting of risk satisfied with the overall fairness, balance and clarity of the document is underpinned Monitoring the integrity of the Groups by the following: financial statements comprehensive guidance issued to contributors at operational level: Monitoring the role and effectiveness of the a verification process dealing with the factual content of the reports: Internal Audit function comprehensive reviews undertaken at different levels in the Group that aim to Approving an annual programme of internal ensure consistency and overall balance: and audit work comprehensive review by the senior management team.
Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the Auditors The Audit Committee has also championed efforts to declutter the document by stripping out duplication and sequencing information in as logical a manner as Agreeing the scope of the Auditors annual possible without compromising compliance with UK regulatory and accounting audit programme and reviewing the output requirements.
Keeping the relationship with the Auditors An essential part of the integrity of the financial statements are the key assumptions under review and estimates or judgements that have to be made.
The Committee reviews key Assessing the effectiveness of the audit judgements on a twice-yearly basis prior to publication of the financial statements at process the full and half year, as well as considering significant issues throughout the year.
In particular, this includes reviewing any materially subjective assumptions within the Developing and implementing policy on the Groups principal programmes to enable an appropriate determination of revenue engagement of the Auditors to supply recognition or provisioning.
The Committee has also reviewed an analysis of goodwill non-audit services held on the Groups balance sheet in respect of a number of past major transactions and assumptions made in respect of the relevant cash-generating units to which goodwill has been attributed: the methodology for impairment testing used by the Group is set out in note 11 to the Group accounts on page 140.
Audit both internal and external plays an important part in assessing the effectiveness of financial reporting and internal controls and, in turn, the effectiveness and quality of audit is of key importance.
Our Auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and their legacy predecessors, have been in place since 1981 and, in line with the audit professions own ethical guidance, the current audit engagement partner will rotate off the Companys account in 2013 having served for a period of five years.
The Committee reviews the Auditors independence on an annual basis and also monitors on a quarterly basis the nature and level of non-audit fees payable to them.
The Committee believes that certain work of a non-audit nature is best undertaken by the external Auditors, and believes that it is not appropriate to limit the level of such work by reference to a set percentage of the audit fee, as this does not take into account important judgements that need to be made concerning the nature of work undertaken to help safeguard the Auditors independence.
The Committee has implemented a policy on the engagement of the Auditors to supply non-audit services which aims at safeguarding audit objectivity and independence.
The Committee has agreed the policy opposite regarding services provided by the Auditors.
Details of fees payable to the Auditors are set out on page127.
The Committee has reviewed the recent changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code including the new provision for FTSE 350 companies to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
Having considered the FRCs guidance on aligning the timing of such re-tenders with the audit engagement partner rotation cycle, the Committees current intentions are that it will initiate a re-tendering process in 2017.
This policy will be kept under review and the Committee will use its regular reviews of auditor effectiveness to assess whether an earlier date for such a re-tender would be desirable.
Such regular reviews are used to assess the effectiveness of the 88 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Governance external audit process and the Auditors performance, with the Committee undertaking an internal assessment of the audit effectiveness and performance which is mapped against audit appointment criteria.
On an annual basis, this is undertaken through a Group-wide evaluation at management and functional level, together with input from the Audit Committee itself.
In addition, the Committee undertakes a comprehensive review of the effectiveness and performance of the external Auditors every three years.
The last such review was undertaken in 2011 and encompassed management performance evaluation, independent client service review, future audit strategy and fee benchmarking.
Having considered the output of this review, the Committee has recommended to the Board that it recommend that shareholders support the re-appointment of the Auditors at the 2013 AGM.
As reported last year, the Committee appointed a new head of Internal Audit with effect from April 2012.
An external quality assessment of the Groups Internal Audit function has been initiated and any recommendations to strengthen the functions capabilities or enhance the service it delivers will be acted upon.
The annual internal audit programme itself is agreed jointly by the Audit and Corporate Responsibility committees to ensure that the over-arching internal audit programme includes the assessment of the effectiveness of policies and processes relating to key areas of ethical and reputational risk.
The Committee derives considerable value from discussing issues with operational management as well as seeing at first hand practical demonstrations of the Groups core control, risk identification and risk mitigation processes.
To this end, in 2012, the Committee met with senior management in the Groups Support Solutions business as part of its visit to the US in June, as well as meeting with senior management in the UK Naval Ships business as part of a visit to the Scotstoun site in Glasgow in December.
Nick Rose Chairman Audit Committee Policy on non-audit services provided by the Auditors Audit-Related Services Permitted Non-Audit Services, subject to Prohibited Non-Audit Services approval under the policy Reporting required by law or regulation to Tax compliance services: Book-keeping and work relating to the be provided by the Auditors: preparation of accounting records and Tax advisory services: financial statements that will ultimately Reviews of interim financial information: Due diligence services relating to be subject to external audit: Reporting on regulatory returns: acquisitions of new businesses or Financial information system design and significant investments in businesses, Reporting to a regulator on client assets: implementation: joint ventures or strategic alliances: Reporting on government grants: Appraisal or valuation services in respect Public reporting on investment circulars: of material assets: Reporting on internal financial controls Private reporting to sponsors or similar when required by law or regulation: and Actuarial services: parties in connection with investment Extended work undertaken at the circulars including comfort letters and Internal auditing: request of those charged with reporting on working capital statements : Investment adviser or broking: governance on financial information this Preparing information for third parties does not include accounting services Advocacy services: relating to acquisitions and disposals, and or financial controls performed including the conversion of financial Secondments to management positions where this work is integrated with the statements into other accounting that include decision-making: and audit work, and is performed on the standards: same principal terms and conditions.
Any work where a mutuality of interest is Liquidation services in respect of created that could compromise the redundant subsidiaries or associate independence of the Auditors.
companies: Participation in the evaluation of Internal Audit: Accounting advice: and Validation and verification work in connection with bids.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 89 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Corporate Responsibility Committee report Paul Anderson, Chairman Members Dear Shareholders, Paul Anderson Chairman, Harriet Green, The Corporate Responsibility Committee has been in place since 2005 and over that SirPeter Mason time a good deal of its work has been focused on ethics.
Founded on a robust Governance approach, we have seen good progress in this area with good evidence of business The Corporate Responsibility Committee was in conduct being embedded in the way the Company does business.
There is clear place throughout 2012, and held four meetings leadership from the top and an ongoing education programme that provides guidance and participated in three site visits.
All its on what is expected of employees.
This assists them in applying our values and members are independent in accordance with behaviour expectations to workplace situations.
It also includes guidance on how to the provisions of the Code.
validate matters and seek assistance through mechanisms such as our Ethics Helpline and network of Ethics Officers.
As with all matters that shape the culture of Summary of responsibilities an organisation, the Committee is mindful that there will be an ongoing requirement Assisting the Board in overseeing the for clear leadership at all levels within the Company, and for training and education development of strategy, and policy on social, that is engaging and relevant.
Alongside this, there will always be a need for Board environmental and ethical matters oversight, supported by internal and external assurance providers, and the insight Keeping under review the effectiveness of the provided by employee engagement processes.
Companys internal control policies and Since its formation, the Committee has also focused on safety.
Here again, we have procedures for the identification, seen progress.
In particular, we have seen improvements in safety leadership and the assessment, management and reporting of integration of safety into the core management review and reward processes that are reputational and other non-financial risks used to drive performance throughout the Company.
For 2012, the Committee agreed Monitoring and reviewing the role and that our basic measure of safety performance and the one used as part of our effectiveness of the Companys Internal Audit executive incentives should change from the Lost Work Day Case Rate to the function in relation to corporate responsibility Recordable Accident Rate.
Whilst progress had been made using the lost day measure, it was felt that we needed a metric that was more responsive to actions that Providing oversight of the Companys help embed safety into how we approach and manage our business, and also compliance with corporate  external benchmarking against leading performers.
Details of 2012 related policies and procedures performance as measured by the Recordable Accident Rate can be found on page 41.
Reviewing audit and assurance reports Compared with ethics and safety, diversity and inclusion is a comparatively recent produced by the Corporate Responsibility area of focus for the Committee.
However, since 2009, it has been engaged in this assurer area, supporting the Chief Executive and his management team in developing an Overseeing and supporting key stakeholder approach to diversity and inclusion that is capable of delivering the desired result engagement on social, environmental and across a large and diverse company.
We have seen good engagement from the senior ethical issues management team, which recognises that evolving the culture of an organisation requires leadership and commitment to change.
To measure performance in this Making proposals to the Remuneration area, the Company has adopted a maturity matrix approach that provides all Committee regarding appropriate corporate businesses with a model describing five levels of organisational maturity.
The  performance objectives Committee will continue to use this and other tools to monitor performance and for executive directors report on our progress to shareholders.
Reviewing the Companys arrangements for Im pleased that we have been able to increase our focus on environmental matters in employees to obtain further advice on ethical 2012.
Against a goal of reducing the environmental impact of our operations and issues in confidence products, targets have been set to reduce the amount of energy and water used, and Ensuring that the Code of Conduct is regularly waste generated.
As with all the corporate responsibility matters mentioned in this reviewed and reflects best practice for such report, environmental sustainability performance has been incorporated into the codes Companys core performance management processes and, therefore, has the same visibility as financial measures of performance.
The Committee receives Ensuring the Companys Annual Report and management information throughout the year that informs our meeting room Accounts includes an examination of ethical engagement with the Chief Executive and his senior operational executives.
However, business conduct within the Company there is always a need to spend time as a committee out of the meeting room, meeting employees and seeing operations.
Here the experience and knowledge of Committee members can be used to assist in developing an understanding of progress against our corporate responsibility goals.
We did this three times in 2012, with site visits in the UK, Saudi Arabia and the US providing valuable insights.
BAE Systems does not produce a separate corporate responsibility report.
Instead we choose to integrate these matters into this Annual Report and Accounts.
If corporate responsibility considerations are managed as an integral part of how you do business that is how it should be.
Within the business reporting segments pages 56 to 75 you will find details of performance in the areas of safety, diversity and inclusion, and environment for each of our reporting segments.
Paul Anderson Chairman Corporate Responsibility Committee 90 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Governance Nominations Committee report Dick Olver, Chairman Members Dear Shareholders, Dick Olver Chairman, Paul Anderson, Over the last few years, the Board has aimed to achieve a board membership of 12 SirPeterMason, Nick Rose directors, comprising a chairman, three executive directors and eight non-executive Governance directors.
It is recognised that at times we will be slightly above or below, but having The Nominations Committee was in place such a target assists the Nominations Committee in its succession planning activity.
throughout 2012 and held four meetings.
It is Following Michael Hartnalls retirement at last years Annual General Meeting, Board chaired by the Chairman of the Company.
Whilst membership has been reduced to 11, plus the Committee knew we had to plan for he is not deemed to be independent, the other SirPeter Masons retirement as he was in his tenth year on the Board.
Consequently, three members of the Committee are the Nominations Committee initiated a search in the first half of 2012 for suitable independent non-executive directors in candidates for appointment as non-executive directors of the Company.
However, the accordance with the provisions of the Code.
discussions that the Company held with EADS last year regarding a possible Summary of responsibilities combination of the two businesses could have led to the Board being re-constituted Reviewing regularly the structure, size and and, consequently, the pace of the search activity had to be slowed.
This activity is composition of the Board, and making now well underway with external search consultants, Zygos Partners, having been recommendations to the Board on any appointed by the Committee to assist.
I manage the relationship with Zygos and they appropriate changes provide no other recruitment services to the Company.
We expect to be in a position to announce non-executive appointments shortly.
Identifying and nominating for the Boards approval suitable candidates to fill any The following table summarises the membership of the Board at present: vacancies for non-executive and, with the Date of Time on Committee assistance of the Chief Executive, executive Director Nationality appointment Board membership directors Chairman Dick Olver UK 17 May 2004 8 years Nominations Planning for the orderly succession of 9 months directors to the Board Executive directors Recommending to the Board the membership Linda Hudson US 26 October 2009 3 years and chairmanship of the Audit, Corporate 4 months Responsibility and Remuneration committees Ian King UK 1 January 2007 6 years 2 months Peter Lynas UK 1 April 2011 1 year 11 months Average time on Board Executive directors 3 years 10 months Non-executive directors Paul Anderson US 8 October 2009 3 years Corporate 4 months Responsibility, Nominations Harriet Green UK 1 November 2010 2 years Corporate 4 months Responsibility Sir Peter Mason UK 22 January 2003 10 years Audit, 1 month Corporate Responsibility, Nominations Lee McIntire US 1 June 2011 1 year Remuneration 9 months Paula Rosput Reynolds US 1 April 2011 1 year Audit 11 months Nick Rose UK 8 February 2010 3 years Audit, Nominations, Remuneration Carl Symon UK US 11 June 2008 4 years Remuneration 8 months Average time on Board Non-executive directors 3 years 10 months Average time on Board All directors 4 years 4 months BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 91 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Succession planning activity has been constant throughout my time on the Board, and Chairmans succession rarely has there been a time when we have not been looking for candidates for appointment as non-executive directors.
As you can see from the above, we have One of the main principles in the UK Corporate been successful in refreshing the Board, with the average time on the Board being Governance Code states: just over four years.
In discharging its succession planning duties, the Committee considers the profile of the non-executive members of the Board on a regular basis, The chairman is responsible for leadership of analysing its composition in terms of knowledge, experience and skills, diversity, and the board and ensuring its effectiveness on all length of service.
Diversity is an important part of these considerations, and we look aspects of its role.
at different aspects of this, including professional background and experience, That is a very substantial role that is critical to geographic cultural diversity and gender diversity.
We also consider the Companys the performance of any board and, therefore, strategy as part of our succession planning and, as a consequence, identify areas of ultimately the performance of the company.
The knowledge and experience that will assist the Board in strategic development and role of the Chairman of BAESystems is delivery.
principally as defined by the Code, but it also Executive director succession planning is also undertaken by the Committee, with the includes representing the Company at the annual tempo of the Committees work here focused on its oversight of the highest level, and building key relationships that Companys executive development and succession planning processes.
The assist in developing our strategy and customer effectiveness of these processes, which cover the whole of the Groups executive relationships worldwide.
Given the nature of our population, is fundamental to the future success of the Company.
Identifying talented business, the importance of this aspect of the individuals with the ability to develop and grow as leaders is a core requirement for role should not be overlooked.
successful businesses and, in BAE Systems, this is led by the Chief Executive.
He and The Board and the Committee are fully aware of the Executive Committee regularly review the experience and skills that our future the criticality of the chairman role and the need leaders will require, and use this to shape our development activities.
to plan for the appointment of Dick Olvers The Committees role in executive succession planning is to engage with the Chief successor in a thorough, well-structured and Executive and the Group Human Resources Director in discussing our management timely manner.
As the Senior Independent development strategy and priorities, as well as the detailed succession plans for the Director, I am chairing the Nominations most senior executive positions.
Through such engagement, the Company draws on Committee as it discharges this important role.
the knowledge and experience of the Committees members to help shape this The Committee has structured the search activity, and ensure that the analysis, objectives and processes are sound and robust.
process in line with best practice for such Whilst our internal resources will always be considered for any appointment, we will matters, including: also look at external recruitment and use this in a balanced approach to meeting I will engage with important stakeholders future management needs.
including our major shareholders during the Finally, Nick Rose joined the Committee recently having been appointed to succeed search.
Sir Peter Mason as Senior Independent Director.
My term of office is due to expire The Committee will use an external search next year and, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Nick Rose will chair the consultancy to identify possible candidates Committee in its search to identify an individual to succeed me as Chairman.
therefore appropriate that Nick provides you with the following separate statement on this matter on behalf of the Nominations Committee.
The Committee will only nominate an individual for appointment who is independent at the time of appointment in accordance with Dick Olver Code provision B.
Chairman Nominations Committee We have started the search for a successor to Dick Olver as Chairman of the Board and we expect to be in a position to announce the results of this later in the year.
Nick Rose Senior Independent Director 92 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012
