OUR STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE GOVERN OUR BUSINESS OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPOR AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT T The Audit Committee, reporting to the Board, b Internal auditors has responsibility for overseeing the financial Capco has appointed BDO LLP as its internal reporting process, monitoring the eff ectiveness auditor.
During 2012 BDO followed the second of internal control, internal audit, risk year of a five-year audit plan focused on areas management, the statutory audit and highlighted in the Group risk register.
The monitoring the independence of the statutory work conducted by BDO during 2012 included auditors and the provision of non-audit reviews of payroll, IT security, Covent Garden turnover leases, risk management, disaster services.
As at 31 December 2012 and the date recovery and business continuity planning, ofthis report the Committee comprises three The Bribery Act 2010, budgetary control and independent Non-executive Directors, and is financial management information, lease chaired by Henry Staunton who is considered income from property management and to have signi cant, recent and relevant treasury and cash ow.
It is intended that financial experience.
the2013 internal audit programme will The Committee invites the Companys A focus on eff ective haveamore strategic focus.
Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director c Non-audit services controls and robust and Financial Controller to attend its meetings The Company has adopted a policy to ensure together with senior representatives of the financial reporting.
that the provision of non-audit services by external and internal auditors.
Members of theexternal auditors does not compromise senior management, including the Head Audit Committee itsindependence or objectivity.
The term ofTax, attend by invitation to present such non-audit services does not include reference reports as are required for the Committee to I am pleased to introduce Capcos 2012 to any advice on tax.
Under the policy, Executive discharge its responsibilities.
Directors may commission non-audit work The Audit Committee met four times during with a cost not exceeding the lower of 50,000 As the delivery of Capcos strategy 2012.
Attendance at these meetings is shown or 15 per cent of the estimated annual level of progressed during 2012, the Committee inthe table on page 54. the auditors fees at that time.
Costs exceeding gave particular focus to the property The Committee follows an annual programme valuations, both meeting with the that ensures it gives thorough consideration A SUMMARY OF THE MATTERS independent valuers and discussing tomatters of particular importance to the CONSIDERED DURING 2012 IS thebasis of valuation with the external SET OUT BELOW: Company, and considers additional matters auditors.
I am happy to con rm that when appropriate.
theCommittee is satis ed with the Updates from the Financial Controller valuation process and the valuations.
The Committee met privately during the year Preliminary results and Annual Report with both the external and internal auditors.
In 2013 we will continue to ensure Representation letters thatCapcos financial reporting, risk a External auditors Going concern management and internal controls The Committee has oversight of the Management accounts areappropriate for a company of relationship with the external auditors, and Capcosstanding.
Corporate governance policies isresponsible for developing, implementing Valuers reports and valuations and monitoring the Companys policy on external audit, and for monitoring the Internal audit plan and reports auditors independence, objectivity and Tax Policy and taxation compliance with ethical, professional and Risk management review regulatory requirements.
Capco tendered Controls update itsexternal audit contract in 2010, and Henry Staunton External audit plan  LLP PwC were Chairman of the Audit Committee appointed as Group auditors on an annual Reappointment of external auditors 28 February 2013 rolling contract.
The Committee monitored Accounting treatment of matters PwCs eff ectiveness and performance during requiring the use of judgement and Members: 2012, and considered a paper prepared by the estimates which are summarised on Financial Controller which con rmed that in page 87 Henry Staunton Chairman managements view PwC were providing the Interim results and interim Ian Henderson audit service agreed during the tender process.
management statements Andrew Strang The Committee is satis ed with the service Regulatory developments received from PwC and has therefore Capital expenditure recommended to the Board that PwC bereappointed in 2013.
COM 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED this limit must be approved in advance by the The Board received regular updates on Audit Committee Chairman.
In addition, the strategy and project developments at the Executive Directors must give consideration to formal Board meetings and Board updates the preservation of auditor independence: and A formal whistleblowing procedure is in the external auditors are required to con rm place under which staff may raise matters that they are acting independently and must ofconcern no calls were received during not audit their own work: make management theyear decisions for the Company: create a mutuality Speci c controls relating to financial reporting of interest: develop close personal relationships and consolidation processes include: with the Companys personnel: or nd themselves in the role of advocate for the Management structure with clear lines Company.
The Committee is satis ed that ofresponsibility and accountability, staff ed thepolicy is eff ective.
by appropriate personnel The total fees paid and payable to PwC in 2012 A comprehensive system of budgeting were 401,000, of which 64,000 related to andreview.
The Board and Audit non-audit work.
These fees primarily relate Committee receive regular reports from the toadvice on corporate transactions and a Finance Director which include forecasts staff presentation on the Bribery Act 2010. and performance against budget and TheCommittee is satis ed that the external financial covenants auditors remain independent and objective.
The internal audit programme undertaken d Internal control and by BDO.
The Committee is satis ed that riskmanagement the internal audit services provided by The Board has overall responsibility for the BDO were independent and eff ective Groups risk management framework and Group Finance participates in the control system of internal control and the ongoing self-assessment and policy compliance review of their eff ectiveness.
A summary of elements of the risk management therisk management framework is set out on framework and sets formal requirements page 12.
The framework is designed to manage with business unit finance functions which rather than eliminate risk, and can only provide specify the reports and approvals required.
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against Group Internal Audit regularly reviews material misstatement or loss.
The Audit theeff ectiveness of internal controls and Committee monitors and reviews the Groups reports its findings to the Audit Committee internal controls and risk, and reports to the Board on its work and conclusions.
An annual risk management process is followed to identify risks and review the Ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating eff ectiveness of mitigating controls.
Risk and managing the signi cant risks faced by registers are completed by the Executive theGroup were in place throughout the year.
Directors and senior management across the These controls accord with the Turnbull Group and used to compile the Group risk guidance Internal Control Guidance for register.
The Group risk register is reviewed Directors on the Combined Code and remained twice a year and upon any material change in place up to the date of the approval of this tothe business, with a full review being Annual Report.
The procedures are reviewed undertaken annually, at which point it is also bythe Board on an annual basis.
reviewed by the Audit Committee with new or The key elements of the Groups day-to-day emerging risks considered by the Committee procedures and internal control framework are: as appropriate.
The Groups principal risks anduncertainties are set out on pages 13 to 15.
Formal schedule of matters reserved fortheBoard e Taxation Formal delegated authority limits During 2012 the Audit Committee received regular updates from the Head of Tax and Formal documentation of considered the Groups Tax Policy which is signi canttransactions referred to on page 41.
The Committee is The Executive Directors are closely satis ed that the Tax Policy is appropriate involved in the day-to-day operations forthe Group.
ofthe business and hold regular meetings with senior management to review all aspects of the business 56
