CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT A GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE TOENGENDER TRUST Good governance is not only about formalannual report disclosures.
From the Chairman I am pleased to introduce Capcos 2012 Corporate Governance Report.
development closely and have incorporated additional disclosures Capcos governance structure comprises a framework of oversight, where appropriate this year, including restructuring the Directors controls and reporting which supports the business.
This allows us Remuneration Report into a policy report and implementation tooperate with transparency to achieve the Companys objectives and report.
Good corporate governance is not only about formal engender trust from shareholders, employees and other stakeholders.
AnnualReport disclosures but also a cultural commitment the Boardand management make to conduct themselves with openness, The Corporate Governance and Board Committee reports contained transparency and fairness, to engage with shareholders constructively, inthis section of the Annual Report describe the operation of the and to maximise the long-term value of the business within an Board and its Committees and explain how we applied the principles acceptable framework of risk and with due regard to all stakeholders.
of good governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code This is a responsibility we all take very seriously.
By order of the Board There are two areas that I particularly wish to bring to shareholders attention this year: executive remuneration and Board composition.
Following Capcos exceptional performance since 2010, the Remuneration Committee has undertaken a review of the Remuneration Policy and remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors.
The conclusions of the review are set out in the Directors Ian Durant Remuneration Report from page 59.
Chairman At the time of last years report, we were in the process of recruiting 28 February 2013 anew Non-executive Director, and we welcomed Demetra Pinsent to the Board in May 2012.
A former partner of McKinsey & Co, Demetra has brought extensive luxury retail experience and an understanding of brand creation to the Board, and I am pleased to report that she is making a great contribution to the Boards discussions.
During 2013 we will continue to consider Board composition to ensure that the balance of skills, experience and diversity remains appropriate.
Finally, in 2012 a revised UK Corporate Governance Code was STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE introduced, and new regulations on remuneration disclosures and WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE narrative reporting have been proposed.
The new regulations do not The Company was fully compliant with the UK Corporate apply to Capco until 2013, however we are monitoring their Governance Code during 2012.
50 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE GOVERN OUR BUSINESS OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012, bringing a wealth of luxury retail and LENGTH OF TENURE OF THE BOARD NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS branding experience to the Board, and thus Board composition increasing diversity in several respects.
As at 31 December 2012 the Board comprised Information on the way we recruit new 9 0-2 theChairman, three Executive Directors and 2 Directors and our induction programme years years sixNon-executive Directors.
The table below 1 canbefound on page 57. summarises the membership of the Board and Committees.
In addition, biographies of all Diversity is important to Capco across the theDirectors including information on their Group and we recognise the business bene ts skillsand experience can be found on pages of employing people with varied outlooks.
Weare keen to develop female talent and the years years 2 ratio of women to men within our senior Board independence management team is 1:2.
Further information The UK Corporate Governance Code requires on our people practices, including our learning that, excluding the Chairman, at least half and development strategies, is contained in the theBoard should comprise Non-executive The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 42 Directors determined to be independent.
are distinct and formally documented, with the to47.
Thetable below sets out which of the Directors Chairman being responsible for the leadership the Board considers to be independent.
Each The Board does not feel that it is appropriate of the Board, ensuring its eff ectiveness and independent Director has con rmed that there to set targets on gender diversity as all setting its agenda, and the Chief Executive for is no reason why they should not continue to developing the Companys strategic direction, appointments must be made on merit, be considered independent, and the Board is implementing policies and strategies decided however gender and wider diversity issues satis ed that they all remain independent in willcontinue to be taken into consideration by the Board and managing the business.
when evaluating the skills, knowledge and Day-to-day management of the Group is experience desirable to ll each Board vacancy.
Diversity delegated to the Executive Directors, subject As we reported last year, the Board was keen to AN EFFECTIVE LEADERSHIP STRUCTURE toformal delegated authority limits, however improve its gender diversity.
We are delighted The Board is collectively responsible for the certain matters have been reserved for that Demetra Pinsent was appointed as an long-term success of the Company, and for its consideration by the Board.
These matters additional Non-executive Director in May leadership, strategy, control and management.
arereviewed annually and include: Board BOARD INDEPENDENCE REMUNERATION NOMINATION NAME INDEPENDENT AUDIT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE CR COMMITTEE Ian Durant Chairman n a Ian Hawksworth Chief Executive No Soumen Das No Gary Yardley No Graeme Gordon No Ian Henderson Yes Senior Independent Director Andrew Huntley Yes Demetra Pinsent Yes Henry Staunton Yes Andrew Strang Yes 56% Each of these Non-executive Directors is considered to be independent as they met the UK Corporate Governance Codes independence criteria on their appointment as Non-executive Directors of the Companys former parent Liberty International PLC, and con rmed their continued independence on appointment as Directors of the Company.
COM 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED LEADERSHIP STRUCTURE THE BOARD Strategy: Leadership: Risk AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION CORPORATE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITY Oversees financial reporting Sets remuneration policy Recommends Board COMMITTEE appointments Aligns corporate Monitors internal controls Sets Executive responsibility initiatives Director remuneration Succession planning Oversees risk management withthe corporate strategy and incentives Boardevaluation Monitors internal and Oversees corporate Approves annual external auditors responsibility activities  Further information: Audit Committee Report Directors Remuneration Report Nomination Committee CR Committee page 58 pages 55 and 56 pages 59 to 75 page 57 Corporate Responsibility Report Risk Management Report pages 42 to 47 pages 12 to 15 andCommittee composition, Company of corporate governance, and ensures good financial calendar, and additional meetings strategy, signi cant funding decisions and information ows within the Board and its convened to consider speci c matters as corporate transactions, delegated authority Committees and between senior management required.
Attendance at Board and Board limits and dividend policy.
Committee meetings held during 2012 is shown in the table on page 54.
If matters Through the Chairman, the Company Secretary The Board meets formally throughout the require approval at short notice, written is responsible for advising the Board on matters yearwith main meetings timed around the approval is sought from the Directors.
THE BOARD IN 2012 Board papers are circulated several days in advance of meetings to ensure that Directors During 2012 the Board received regular asset and performance updates from the Executive have suffi cient time to consider their content Directors, and reports from the Company Secretary, Director of HR & CR and Committee prior to the meeting.
Other matters considered by the Board during the year are shown below: The Chairman also meets regularly with Strategy theNon-executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
Annual and interim results, interim management statements and dividends Finance matters including budgets, taxation, cash and treasury management It is in the nature of the Companys business Signi cant investment decisions including property acquisitions, disposals and leases that matters requiring the Boards decision areoften large, complex and slow moving.
Property valuations, market and broker updates Toassist the Board, informal update meetings 70m revolving credit facility are held between Board meetings which are 9.99% share placing designed to allow Board members adequate Risk governance time and preparation to explore, understand Delegated authority limits and challenge decisions in preparation.
These are sometimes combined with site visits and AGM resolutions including the Scrip Dividend Scheme and the Odd-lot Off er provide an opportunity for the Non-executive Outcome of Board evaluation, including Board diversity Directors to meet senior management.
Three Committees terms of reference and schedule of matters reserved for Board decision such updates were held during 2012.
52 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE GOVERN OUR BUSINESS OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ENSURING AN EFFECTIVE BOARD Board performance and evaluation EVALUATION PROCESS Recognising that Capcos Board must be eff ective, the Board conducts an annual Chairman and Company Secretary considered the approach to be taken evaluation of its own performance and that ofits Committees and Directors.
In 2012 an internal review was conducted.
Directors were asked to answer questions on a wide range of Thinking Board, provided by Independent Audit Limited, was recommended topics, and to highlight any areas they felt to the Nomination Committee and Board needed additional focus.
The outcome of the review was positive, with the Board judged to be eff ective and open, however several areas have been identi ed for attention during 2013.
Questionnaires were prepared and issued to Directors Further information on the evaluation process, the priorities identi ed and progress against actions arising from the 2011 review is set The responses were collated outbelow.
In addition to the Board evaluation, during theyear the Senior Independent Director and The findings were presented to the Board for discussion Non-executive Directors conducted an annual appraisal of the Chairmans performance, and the Chairman undertook an appraisal of the Chief Executives performance.
An action plan was agreed The UK Corporate Governance Code requiresthat an externally facilitated review isundertaken every three years.
It is expected that Capco will commission its next externally ACTIONS FOR 2012 PROGRESS ACTIONS FOR 2013 facilitated review in 2013 as the last external Appointment of Henry Staunton was appointed Develop Board evaluation took place in 2010.
HenryStaunton to to the Nomination Committee successionplan COMMUNICATION WITH Nomination Committee STAKEHOLDERS Our policy Increase Board diversity Demetra Pinsent has been Improve challenge and The Board is keen to ensure that our appointed to the Board.
objective debate at meetings shareholders and potential investors have a Diversity remains under review good understanding of Capcos business and Improve planning Annual agendas have Ensure Directors remain performance, and that Directors are aware of ofCommittees beenagreed for each up to date on regulatory any issues and concerns which shareholders annualagendas BoardCommittee developments may have.
The Company communicates with stakeholders in a number of ways.
Develop Board Board succession planning Ensure regular Board Corporate website succession plan remains an area of focus updates are held outside Our corporate website offormal Board meetings www.
com allows visitors to Expand Non-executive The Company Secretary access Company information, annual reports, Director development circulates details of training results presentations and webcasts.
The site also opportunities anddevelopment opportunities includes links to our business unit websites and to the Directors contact details for shareholder queries.
Directors were asked to Annual General Meeting advisethe Company Secretary Our AGM allows the Board to update our ofareas where they felt they shareholders on Capcos progress, and provides would bene t from additional an opportunity for shareholders to pose development and brie ng questions to the Directors, and meet senior sessions were arranged executives.
Shareholders are encouraged to vote on the resolutions put to the meeting, either in person at the meeting, online or by submitting a proxy card.
COM 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS joint venture in respect of the Seagrave Road development.
He receives no remuneration for The following table shows Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings held this appointment.
appointment carefully before con rming its approval and is satis ed that there is no con ict Name Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CR of interest and that the appointment does not Ian Durant 7 7 2 2 4 4 compromise his independence.
Ian Hawksworth 7 7 2 2 4 4 On appointment, and each subsequent year, Soumen Das 7 7 Non-executive Directors are required to con rm Gary Yardley 7 7 in writing that they have suffi cient time to Ian Henderson 6 7 4 4 12 12 2 2 4 4 devote to the Companys aff airs.
In addition Graeme Gordon 6 7 they are required to seek prior approval from the Chairman before taking on any additional Andrew Huntley 7 7 10 12 2 2 external commitments which may aff ect their Demetra Pinsent 6 6 1 1 2 3 time available to devote to the Company.
Henry Staunton 7 7 4 4 12 12 2 2 The Board remains satis ed that all NonAndrew Strang 6 7 4 4 12 12 2 2 executive Directors are contributing eff ectively 74 12 2 4 to the operation of the Board.
The Companys Articles of Association Graeme Gordon appointed Raymond Fine as his alternate in respect of the one meeting which he was unable toattend.
permitthe Board to authorise potential con icts of a Directors interests that may results of the votes on all resolutions on our theSenior Independent Director to discuss arise.
The Board has adopted a procedure website following the meeting.
anymatters they may wish to raise.
under which Directors must notify the Chairman of any potential con icts.
The Our 2013 AGM will be held on 3May2013.
The Directors receive regular updates on the Chairman then decides whether a con ict Thenotice of Annual General Meeting will be Companys major shareholders, and receive exists and recommends its authorisation issued to shareholders at least 20 working days reports on shareholder feedback at each bythe Board where appropriate.
The Non-executive Directors before the meeting.
Separate resolutions will who had a con ict of interest would not be are invited to attend the Companys beproposed on each separate issue, and in counted in the quorum or entitled to vote resultspresentations.
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance when the Board considered the matter in Code, each of the Directors will off er themselves Private shareholders may raise questions which the Director had an interest.
through the Company Secretarys offi ce BOARD COMMITTEES eitherby telephone or by email feedback@ The Chairman and Chairmen of the Board The Board has established Audit, capitalandcounties.
Committees will be available at the AGM to Remuneration, Nomination and meet shareholders and answer any questions.
Should shareholders be unable to successfully In November 2012, the Company launched Theterms of reference of each Committee resolve concerns following contact with anOdd-lot Off er to reduce the number of areavailable onthe Companys website theChairman, Chief Executive or Finance small, inactive shareholdings on the register.
The activity of Director, they may raise them through the All shareholders were able to elect to retain each Committee is described on pages 55 to 75.
The Company repurchased shares GOING CONCERN representing 0.06% of the issued share capital, Communications with shareholders A statement on going concern is set out on and the Companys shareholder base was Communication with the Companys investors page 77. reduced by 35%.
is a priority for the Board.
The Company has anextensive investor relations programme, DTR DISCLOSURE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST and the Chief Executive and Finance Director The disclosures required under DTR 7.2 of The Chairmans other business commitments hold meetings with institutional shareholders theDisclosure and Transparency Rules are are set out in his biography on page 49. throughout the year, including results contained in this report, the Audit Committee Duringthe year it was announced that presentations, webcasts, road shows, one-toand the Nomination Committee Report, theChairman would be appointed as one meetings and investor tours.
except for information required under DTR Non-executive Chairman of Greggs plc in 7.2.
6 which is contained in the Directors May2013.
The Boardremains satis ed that During 2012, the Chairman of the Report on pages 76 and 77. this additional commitment will not interfere Remuneration Committee discussed proposed with the performance of his duties as Chairman amendments to the Executive Directors of Capco.
remuneration with Capcos major shareholders.
The Companys major shareholders are The Deputy Chairman has been appointed as encouraged to meet with the Chairman and aDirector of the supervisory Board of Capcos 54
