OUR STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE GOVERN OUR BUSINESS OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR RECRUITMENT, INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT The process followed in recruiting Demetra Pinsent to the Board was: The Committee discussed Board composition and determined that increased gender diversity was desirable A shortlist of three executive search rms was drawn up and, after a selection process, the Zygos Partnership was engaged to assist with the recruitment process A person speci cation for the role was prepared and a list of candidates identi ed The Chairman and Chief Executive met with shortlisted candidates and gave their feedback to the Committee All Directors met the preferred candidate New Non-executive The Committee recommended the appointment of Demetra Pinsent to the Board Director to strengthen theBoard.
Demetra Pinsents induction programme included: Nomination Committee Individual meetings with the Chairman, Executive Directors, Company Secretary andmembers of senior management I am pleased to introduce Capcos 2012 Site visits to Covent Garden, Earls Court & Olympia and Seagrave Road Nomination Committee Report.
Company information pack, including copies of Board and Committee papers The main activity of the Committee andminutes during 2012 was making progress on Introduction by the Chairman to the Companys brokers, advisers and lawyers ourintention of improving Board Brie ngs on topics such as Directors duties and responsibilities and the property market diversity through the recruitment of Demetra Pinsent following a rigorous and transparent recruitment process.
We have Ongoing development opportunities for Non-executive Directors include: set out details of our recruitment process Training opportunities and information on seminars are circulated by the and Demetras induction programme on CompanySecretary this page.
Periodic brie ngs from external advisers Next year the Committee expects to Directors are able to take independent advice at the Companys expense focuson Board composition, succession Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary planning and our externally facilitated Board evaluation.
The Nomination Committee has responsibility induction to the Company which includes site for making recommendations on Board visits and introductions to senior management appointments and succession to the Board.
Information on the recruitment As at 31 December 2012 and the date of this of Demetra Pinsent and the content of her report, the members of the Committee were induction programme is set out above.
as set out in the shaded box below.
The Ian Durant Nomination Committee met twice during Chairman of the Nomination Committee MATTERS CONSIDERED BY THE the year.
Attendance at these meetings is COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR INCLUDE: 28 February 2013 shown in the table on page 54.
Non-executive Director Members: During 2012 the Zygos Partnership assisted time commitments with the recruitment of an additional Non-executive Director.
The Zygos Partnership Board diversity Ian Durant Chairman provides no other services to the Group.
Ian Hawksworth Board and Committee composition Ian Henderson NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Proposed recruitment Andrew Huntley RECRUITMENT, INDUCTION of Non-executive Director Demetra Pinsent ANDDEVELOPMENT Chairman and Chief Executive Henry Staunton Capco operates a rigorous and transparent performance reviews Andrew Strang recruitment process for new Directors.
On Board evaluation appointment new Directors are given a tailored WWW.
