REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE range of risks, the Board dedicates considerable time to discussing and assessing the risks affecting the Group and the mitigation strategies toaddress them.
Wehave included further commentary on risk and enhanced the review ofthe principal risks and uncertainties of the Group during our annual review so that their relevance to the Groups business and management accountabilities for each mitigation strategy is clear see pages 36 to 39.
OurAudit Committee continues to play a key part in supporting the Boards approach to the management of risk throughout the business.
Introduction from the Chairman Shareholder engagement The Board believes that, in terms of the overall direction and control The Board recognises and fully embraces the importance of maintaining ofBarratt Developments PLC the Company, effective corporate an ongoing relationship with the Companys shareholders and achieves governance comes principally from the establishment and maintenance this through regular dialogue on issues such as the potential impact ofvalues, standards and disciplines the Company seeks to apply upon our business of the UK and European macroeconomics, the in dealings with shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers, availability of mortgage lending to customers, strategy, performance contractors and other stakeholders.
The Boards stewardship of these andgovernance.
matters and itsrole in providing appropriate leadership is pivotal to this ethos.
Many ofthe Companys core values and standards are set The Board out in a range ofprocedures and practice guidelines communicated In January 2012 the Board met for its annual strategic review to discuss the throughout the Barratt group of companies the Group.
External Groups growth plans and a number of strategic issues including mortgage governance codes also set the framework for the Groups internal availability, customer demand, planning regulations and Government standards and it therefore seeks to comply with established best programmes.
The review is increasingly focusing onthe long-term practice in all areas of corporate governance.
prospects for the provision of homes in a changing UKeconomy.
My focus Statement of compliance with Code provisions A key part of my role as Chairman is to ensure that the Board retains The Company recognises the importance of seeking to maintain the anappropriate level of independence to allow Non-Executive Directors highest standards of corporate governance in all areas of its business.
tochallenge the Executive constructively whilst also supporting them Iampleased to say that throughout the 2011 12 financial year the toimplement the Boards strategy.
For the 2012 13 financial year the Company fully complied with the main and supporting principles of focus will be, amongst other matters, on increasing the profitability of, theCode, details of which canbe found on the following pages of this and reducing the overall indebtedness of, the Group see pages 6 to 7 report.
The Code is publicly available from the Financial Reporting ofthis Annual Report and Accounts and running the business effectively.
A key element of this is ensuring that the Board composition is made up of thecorrect balance of skills, sector specific and general knowledge The challenges facing the housing market continue but I believe that to drive the strategy forward.
During the year, Board membership has theGroups senior management and employees remain totally been refreshed and the Executive reporting structure simplified.
committed to delivering improved performance and shareholder value.
Diversity The Board has considered the recommendations set out in Lord Bob Lawson DaviesReport: Women on Boards, and, following consideration CHAIRMAN andrecommendations from the Nomination Committee, has adopted apolicy on Board appointments a copy of which is available on our website www.
The Nomination Committee, has also revised its terms of reference, to include express reference tothe consideration of diversity when reviewing and implementing Board level succession plans.
Risk management and internal controls A key focus of the UKCorporate Governance Code the Code is risk management and the responsibility of boards to determine the nature and extent of the risks they are willing totake in achieving strategic corporate objectives, as well as including anexplicit obligation for boards to review the effectiveness of risk management systems and internal control.
For the Group, risk appears inmany forms and can fall into any one of several categories such as: market: liquidity: people: subcontractors and suppliers: land purchasing: Government regulation: construction: joint ventures and consortia: safety, health and environment: and information technology.
As there is no single solution for managing such a diverse 42 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Board Board balance and independence The Company is led and controlled by the Board which has overall At the end of the financial year the Board comprised ten members, responsibility for the conduct of the business of the Group and ensuring including the Chairman, five Non-Executive Directors and four Executive that the obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and Directors, although executive representation was reduced to three on met.
The Board is responsible for setting the strategic direction of the 5July 2012 following Clive Fentons resignation from the Board.
The Group and ensuring that it has adequate resources and appropriate Board believes that it has the appropriate balance of Executive and controls, values and standards in place to deliver its strategy within independent Non-Executive Directors having regard to the size and aframework which enables risk to be identified and managed.
Each nature of the business and continuing need to keep its cost base under Board Director is aware of his her responsibilities, individually and tight control.
In addition, the combination of the make-up and calibre collectively, to promote the long-term success of the Group.
ofthe Non-Executive Directors collectively, having regard to their diverse backgrounds and experience and their varying lengths of service, The names, responsibilities and other details of the Directors are set further enhances this balance.
The Board met on eleven occasions during the financial year to review and approve a variety of matters including those During the year, given the length of Bob Davies tenure as a Nonspecifically reserved to them.
These included: approval of the strategy Executive Director and the likelihood of such tenure coming to an end andmanagement of the Group: ensuring adequate financial resources inthe reasonably near term, the Nomination Committee, having due areavailable for the business: review and approval of half-yearly and annual regard tomaintaining the balance between the independent Nonresults: interim management statements and trading updates: review and Executive Directors and Executive Directors, recommended the approval of dividend and treasury policies: review and updating of internal appointment of Richard Akers as a Non-Executive Director to the Board.
control and risk management systems and processes: approval of material Richard Akers joined the Board on 2 April 2012.
As announced on investments transactions: and approval of core policies relating to, amongst 25July 2012, BobDavies subsequently notified the Board of his intention other matters, safety, health andenvironment and employee conduct.
tostep downfrom his positions of Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Board committees atthe Companys 2012 Annual General Meeting the 2012 AGM.
The The Board has established three principal committees to which it has Nomination Committee, having assessed the skills of each of the current delegated specific responsibilities: the Audit pages 49 and 52 : the Non-Executive Directors on the Board identified and recommended Remuneration pages 53 to 66 : and the Nomination pages 46 and 48 tothe Board the appointment of Richard Akers as successor to Committees each a Committee.
Each Committee is provided with BobDavies as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Richard will, sufficient resources to undertake the duties delegated to them and is able subject toelection by shareholders, commence his role as Chairman to seek advice from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary ofthe Remuneration Committee with effect from the conclusion of the and external advisers, as appropriate.
Membership and attendance at 2012 AGM.
In addition, the Nomination Committee recommended that meetings of the Board and of each of its Committees during the 2011 12 Mark Rolfe take over asSenior Independent Director from the same financial year are shown in Table 1.
Each of these Committees and the date and the Board unanimously endorsed this recommendation.
Board completed annual effectiveness reviews see page 45.
The Company recognises the importance of its Non-Executive Directors Table 1 Membership and attendance at Board and remaining independent throughout their appointment as this enables them Committeemeetings to provide objective advice and guidance to the Executive Directors through the use of their wide business experience and diverse backgrounds, as well Audit Remuneration Nomination as being able to challenge constructively and scrutinise the performance The Board Committee Committee Committee ofthe Executive Directors and satisfy themselves with the integrity of the Chairman: Chairman: Chairman: Chairman: financial information to be provided to the Board and the Companys Bob Lawson Mark Rolfe Bob Davies Bob Lawson shareholders.
In addition, their independence is of utmost importance Bob Lawson 11 11 5 5 4 4 when considering the appointment or removal of Executive Directors and Mark Clare 11 11 4 4 inthe determination of succession planning for the Board and other key Steven Boyes 11 11 individuals within the Group.
The Board has, during the year, reviewed, Clive Fenton 11 11 andremains satisfied, that all of its Non-Executive Directors, including David Thomas 11 11 Richard Akers see page 67, are independent in that they have no business Bob Davies 10 11 2 3 5 5 3 4 or other relationship with the Group that might influence their independence Rod MacEachrane 11 11 3 3 5 5 4 4 or judgement.
Details of their interests as shareholders arecontained in Tessa Bamford 10 11 5 5 3 4 Table 6 on page 64 of the Remuneration Report.
Mark Rolfe 11 11 3 3 4 4 Richard Akers 3 3 3 3 1 1 Bob Lawson was appointed Non-Executive Chairman of the Company Bob Davies and Tessa Bamford explained their reasons for their absence and provided their views with effect from 1 July 2008 and was considered to be independent on the items of business totheChairman prior to the meetings they were unable to attend.
Bob Lawsons other significant commitments, Richard Akers joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 2 April 2012 and became a member oftheNomination and Remuneration Committees as at that date.
hisNon-Executive Chairmanship of Genus plc and his directorship 11 indicates number of meetings attended whilst a Director and 11indicates number of meetings heldwhilstaDirector.
ofThe Federation of Groundwork Trusts, do not impinge upon his availability tofulfil his duties to the Company and were considered during the annual review of the effectiveness of the Chairman led bytheSenior Independent Director.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Roles of Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director and conditions which it deems necessary to impose on any authorisation The division of responsibility between the Chairman of the Board and given.
This process was carried out satisfactorily during the year.
the Group Chief Executive is clearly defined in writing and has been approved by the Board.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary maintains a register of Directors conflicts of interest which is reviewed annually.
The Chairman, Bob Lawson, leads the Board in the determination of Following this review the Group General Counsel and Company strategy and in the achievement of its objectives.
He is responsible for: Secretary will make recommendations to the Board in respect of any organising the business of the Board: setting its agenda and ensuring changes to the authorisations, or terms and conditions applied, that that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, in may be required.
Each Director is responsible for notifying, and is aware particular strategic issues: facilitating the effective contribution of the of their responsibility to notify, the Chairman and or the Board of any Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between Executive new conflicts or possible conflicts and of any change in circumstances and Non-Executive Directors: ensuring that the Board receives timely relating to authorisations already given.
The Board, when authorising and accurate information so as to properly conduct its business: any conflict or possible conflict of interest, does not count in the quorum ensuring new directors participate in a full and formal induction process: the Director whose conflict or possible conflict is being discussed and that the continued development needs of the directors are identified reserves the right to exclude a Director from a meeting whilst a conflict andaddressed: and ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
or possible conflict is being considered.
The Board may revoke or vary TheChairman is supported by Tom Keevil, the Group General Counsel any authorisation at any time.
and Company Secretary, in carrying out these duties.
Appointment and Re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors Mark Clare, the Group Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day Non-Executive Directors are appointed, subject to re-election management of the operational activities of the Group in accordance byshareholders and statutory provisions relating to the removal withoverall strategy and policy as determined by the Board.
He carries ofdirectors, by the Board for an initial three-year term and normally outduties delegated to him by the Board through an Executive Committee serveasecond three-year term.
Beyond this a third term of up to three comprising of the Executive Board members, the Group General Counsel years may be served subject to particularly rigorous review and taking and Company Secretary, the Marketing Director, Jeremy Hipkiss, the into account theneed for progressive refreshment of the Board.
Group Director of Corporate Affairs, Patrick Law, the Group Human TheArticles, in accordance with the Code, require any Non-Executive Resources Director, Jayne Mee until 30 June 2012 and thereafter Director who has served nine years or more on the Board continuously RobertTansey from 1 August 2012, and the Managing Director of tobe subject to annual re-appointment thereafter, but in any event all WilsonBowden Developments, Nick Richardson.
The Executive current Directors other than Bob Davies, both Executive and NonCommittee generally meets on a weekly basis to review operational Executive, will stand for re-election by shareholders at this years AGM, matters and also undertakes more in-depth monthly reviews.
as they did at the 2011 AGM, in accordance with the Code provisions applicable to all FTSE 350 companies.
The current Senior Independent Director, Bob Davies, has specific responsibility for evaluating the performance of the Chairman, at least On 2 April 2012 Richard Akers joined the Board as a Non-Executive annually, with the other Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman Director for a three-year term and will, in accordance with the Code, having consulted the Executive Directors beforehand and has completed besubject to election by shareholders at the 2012 AGM and to annual such a review for the 2011 12 financial year, which gave riseto no issues re-election by shareholders thereafter.
Richard was also appointed and unanimous support for the Chairman.
He is alsoresponsible for asamember of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees on ensuring that, where required, he is available to shareholders to i address thesame date and will, as announced on 25 July 2012, take over as any material issues or concerns which the Chairman and or Group Chief theChairman of the Remuneration Committee from Bob Davies with Executive have failed to resolve, and ii listen to their views in order for the effect from theconclusion of the 2012 AGM.
He was also appointed Company to gain a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
tothe Audit Committee with effect from 1 July 2012.
Richard brings withhim a broad business experience and a wealth of property Directors conflicts of interest market knowledge from aretail and commercial perspective.
On 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 the Act codified the duty to avoid conflicts of interest, by which Directors have a duty to avoid During the year the Board also considered and approved the rea situation in which they have, or may have, a direct or indirect conflict appointment of Tessa Bamford as she has completed three years ofinterest or possible conflict of interest with the Company.
Thisduty service on the Board.
Following a formal evaluation process, it was applies to the exploitation of any property, information or opportunity unanimously agreed that Tessa continues to be effective in and that regardless of whether the Company could have taken advantage of it.
shedemonstrates satisfactory commitment to her role as a Director.
The Companys Articles of Association the Articles were amended Accordingly, the Board re-appointed Tessa, subject to annual re-election atthe annual general meeting held on 18 November 2008 to include by shareholders, for a further three-year term.
During this period ageneral power for the Board to authorise such conflicts.
Tessawill continue with the roles that she currently holds upon theCommittees of the Board including her position as a member The Board has, in accordance with the Articles and best practice oftheAudit Committee which she joined on 1 July 2012. guidance, authorised the Nomination Committee to oversee the process for reviewing and making recommendations to the Board concerning The letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available any actual and or potential conflicts of interest which arise or may arise for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office during inrelation to each member of the Board, including details of any terms normal office hours and will also be available at the 2012 AGM 44 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 for15minutes before and throughout the meeting.
The letters of anagenda, briefing papers and comprehensive operating and financial appointment clearly set out the time commitment expected from each management reports for the period under review, generally a week Non-Executive Director to ensure they satisfactorily perform their duties before any Board meeting.
The Group General Counsel and Company and each Non-Executive Director confirms that he she is able to allocate Secretary attends all Board and Committee meetings and all Directors the time commitment required at the time of appointment and during have access to his advice and, if necessary, to independent professional his her annual effectiveness review.
advice at the Companys expense to assist with the discharge of their responsibilities as Directors.
Retirement and re-election of Directors The Articles currently require Directors to submit themselves for All Directors are provided with a rolling three-year schedule of proposed re-election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting AGM meeting dates.
Any Director who is unable to attend a meeting is invited following their initial appointment to the Board and thereafter at intervals toprovide their views to the Chairman ahead of that meeting, having of no more than three years.
All Board members will, however, in reviewed the agenda, briefing papers and management information.
accordance with the Code, stand for re-election by the shareholders Reasons for non-attendance are recorded by the Group General atthe 2012 AGM with the exception of Bob Davies see page 43 and Counsel and Company Secretary and either he or the Chairman will, Clive Fenton who resigned from the Board on 5 July 2012, irrespective thereafter, meet with any absent Director to gothrough any action points of their date of appointment and length of service on the Board.
Each which are of relevance to that Director.
Formal minutes of each Board ofthe Directors has been subject to a formal performance evaluation meeting are prepared, circulated and submitted for approval at the process and it is believed that they all continue to be effective in, and nextmeeting.
demonstrate commitment to, their respective roles.
Performance evaluation Biographical details of each of the Directors and supporting statements The Board is responsible for undertaking a formal and rigorous annual for the election or re-election of the Directors are set out on pages 40 evaluation of its own performance, that of its Committees and of and41 ofthis report and in the Notice of the 2012 AGM.
Details of the individual Directors.
Given that an external consultant undertook Executive Directors service contracts can be found in the Remuneration theperformance evaluation of the Board and its Committees for the Report onpage 62.
2009 10 financial year, the Board agreed that it would, for the 2011 12 financial year, carry out the performance evaluation internally using the The Board recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions to same performance evaluation process as it did for the 2010 11 financial beput forward at the 2012 AGM relating to the election and re-election year.
Accordingly, each Director was asked to complete a separate ofDirectors.
confidential questionnaire on the effectiveness of the Board and each ofthe Committees of which he she is a member.
The Directors scored Induction the performance of the Board and its Committees on various topics, On joining the Company, each new Director participates in a full and including: contribution to strategy: risk management: financial and formal induction process which includes site visits, meetings with all operating reporting: matters reserved for the Board: inter-relationships Board members and senior and operational management teams across between the Board and its Committees: relations with advisers and the business.
Each Director is also provided with an induction pack regulators: and Board procedures.
Responses were collated by the containing general and specific information relating to their role such Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and a non-attributable asa schedule of meetings, copies of Board minutes and various policies report on the findings was formally presented to the Board in July 2012 and procedures, details of their duties as a director of a listed plc and for discussion.
Thereafter the Chairman conducted one-to-one meetings other obligations under the various regulations governing the Company.
with individual Directors in order to appraise the performance of each ofthem as Board members and explore the performance evaluation Development findings.
Key outputs included a desire for more in-depth analysis of risk In January of each year the Board meets for a full day to review and and crisis management plans, enhanced training and development and develop the overall business strategy of the Group which includes increased emphasis in all meetings on strategy development.
An action presentations from senior management within the Group as well as plan to address these matters has been put in place.
As a result of the external professionals.
performance evaluation the Board and each of its Committees reviewed and updated their terms of reference as appropriate.
The Directors continue to update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Company by attending appropriate external and internal seminars During the year the Board and its Committees addressed all the issues and training courses, meeting with senior management and visiting raised as part of the 2010 11 performance evaluation process, including, regional and divisional operating offices and sites.
Additionally, during the development of succession plans for all levels of senior management year, amongst other matters, updates and guidance on currentlive topics including the Executive Directors and review of the annual Board such as corporate narrative reporting, shareholder stewardship, diversity strategy day agenda to encourage more focus on longer-term strategy and fixed and variable elements ofexecutive remuneration were provided as well as the short to medium-term strategies.
The Chairman regularly reviews and annually agrees training and development needs with individual Directors.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Chairman metwith the Non-Executive Directors independently of the Executive Information and support Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board receives Director, met without the Chairman being present, to assess the accurate, timely and clear information.
Each Director is issued with performance of the Chairman and provided feedback from the process.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee leads the process for appointments to theBoard and makes recommendations to the Board when suitable candidates have been identified.
When a vacancy arises the Nomination Committee evaluates the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board and on that basis prepares a description of the roles and capabilities required for that appointment.
The search for Board candidates is carried out, and appointments are made, based on merit having regard to the need to maintain a balance of skills and experience on the Board, diversity and, where appropriate, refreshment of Board memberships.
External recruitment consultants are used where appropriate.
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive In light of Bob Davies length of tenure as a Non-Executive Director and and all five Non-Executive Directors Richard Akers joined theNomination the likelihood of it coming to an end in the near term, the Nomination Committee on 2 April 2012.
The Chairman chairs themeetings of the Committee assessed the balance of skills of the current Non-Executive Nomination Committee, except when the business ofthe meeting relates Directors and identified the skills required by a potential candidate to the appointment of his own successor.
Inaccordance with Code inorder to fulfil the roles of an additional Non-Executive Director provision B.
2.1. the majority of members theNon-Executive Directors andpossibly that of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The are considered independent by the Company.
Nomination Committee also gave consideration as to the appropriate candidate to recommend to the Board to assume the role of Senior Activities undertaken in respect of the 2011 12 financial year Independent Director.
The Zygos Partnership, an independent external The Nomination Committee operates within its terms of reference which recruitment firm, was appointed toassist the Nomination Committee can be found on the Companys website: www.
Details of a number of potential The Nomination Committee met on four occasions during the year candidates from varying backgrounds, with different skills and of both toconsider, amongst other things: genders, were provided tothe Nomination Committee.
A short list of the structure, size and composition of the Board, having regard to the four candidates was identified and each shortlisted individual was invited Boards balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge: for an interview with the members of the Nomination Committee and the development of succession plans for Directors and senior executives: subsequently all Directors.
The merits of each candidate by reference the refreshment of the membership of the Board and its Committees, totheir relative experience, potential contribution to the business of the namely the appointment of Richard Akers as a Non-Executive Director Board, their potential ability to promote the success of the Company and the appointment of all independent Non-Executive Directors and how their skills would complement those of the existing Board, toeach of the Committees with effect from 1 July 2012: wereassessed.
It was unanimously agreed by the members of the the leadership needs of the Group to ensure continued ability Nomination Committee thatRichard Akers was the most suitable oftheGroup to compete effectively in the market: candidate.
A recommendation to appoint Richard Akers as a Nonthe implementation of a diversity policy relating to Board appointments: Executive Director was made to, andsubsequently unanimously through performance evaluation, consideration of the time required approved by, the Board.
Richard joined the Board on 2 April 2012. from Non-Executive Directors to fulfil their duties: and the review and recommendations to the Board on the authorisation Prior to the appointment of Richard Akers as a Non-Executive Director, ofconflicts of interest of new and existing Directors.
the Nomination Committee considered the fact that Richard is, and willcontinue to be, a director of Land Securities PLC Land Securities, thelisted parent company of the UKs largest commercial property group.
Bob Lawson Land Securities has in the past, and may in the future, consider possible CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE joint venture arrangements with the Group or may competitively bid for land against the Group.
Having considered the nature and extent of the relationship between Land Securities and the Group: the fact that Richard would not be directly involved in the negotiation or agreement ofthe contractual terms of any prospective joint venture arrangement between the parties: nor receive any documentation relating to such arrangements or competitive bids, the Nomination Committee confirmed to the Board that it is, and remains satisfied, that Richard Akers is not conflicted and isindependent, a conclusion that the Board endorsed.
Following Lord Davies report, Women on Boards the Davies Report, the Nomination Committee has reviewed the recommendations on gender diversity, as part of its annual effectiveness exercise.
The Committees primary goal is to identify the most appropriate candidates to join the Board and other senior positions within the Group.
However, inaccordance with its terms of reference it seeks to ensure that in considering succession planning it has due regard to the benefits 46 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ofdiversity for the Board and for the Group as a whole, including The key aspects of the Groups system of internal control and risk gender.
Reflecting endorsement of the key aims of the Davies Report, management framework are as follows: theNomination Committee recommended and the Board has adopted, i a clear organisational structure with defined levels of authority apolicy on diversity relating to Board appointments, a copy of which andresponsibility for each operating division: isavailable on the Companys website www.
ii financial and management reporting systems under which financial Although the Board has not imposed a quota regarding gender balance, and operating performance is consistently reviewed against budget the Nomination Committee and the Board will remain fully cognisant of andforecasts at divisional, regional and Group level on a monthly basis: the need to ensure that the business reflects a diverse workforce, at all iii identification and review of principal operational risk areas to ensure they levels of seniority, when considering Board appointments and internal are embedded in the Groups monthly management reporting system, promotions, whilst always seeking to ensure that each post is offered sothat risk identification and the control of risk are a routine aspect of strictly on merit to the best available candidate.
As at 30 June 2012 the management responsibility.
Details of the principal risks and uncertainties aggregate representation of women on the Board was 10% one out of and their relevance to the operation, and financial performance, of the ten directors.
Across the Group the Company employs approximately Company areset out on pages 36 to 39 of the Business Review.
Amongst 1,459women representing 32% of the total workforce of which 16% other matters, the risks reviewed by management and the Board include: are in management positions.
the land and housing markets, including changes in the macroeconomic environment, sales and quality of product: Internal control and approach to risk management liquidity, including the availability of sufficient borrowing facilities: The Board confirms in accordance with principle C. 2 of the Code that attracting and retaining a high calibre of employees, including ithas maintained sound risk management and internal control systems, thedevelopment of a skilled and experienced workforce: seeking to safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets.
the availability of raw materials, subcontractors and suppliers: The Board is responsible for seeking to determine the nature and extent land purchasing: of the significant risks that it is appropriate for the Group to take to achieve Government regulation and planning policy: its strategic objectives and it is the responsibility of the Executive construction and new technologies, including achieving key milestones Directors and senior management to implement and maintain the and the impact on the environment and social surroundings: Groups internal control and risk management systems within the joint ventures and consortia: governance and policy framework approved by the Board.
The safety, health and environment: and riskmanagement and internal control systems have been in place failure of the Groups information technology systems: and throughout the year ended 30 June 2012 and up to the date of this iv compliance with internal control and risk management systems report, and their effectiveness is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The issupported by the Groups internal audit team which is responsible risk management and internal control systems and their effectiveness forundertaking an annual audit plan, ad hoc audits and reporting accord with the Turnbull guidance.
The Groups system of internal totheAudit Committee, and, if necessary, the Board, on the operation controls is designed to manage risks that may impede the achievement andeffectiveness of those systems and any material failings with them.
of the Groups business objectives rather than to eliminate those The planned programme of audit appraisals across Group operations risksentirely.
The system of internal controls therefore provides only isapproved by the Audit Committee and includes full divisional audits reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or and targeted audits of key risk areas such as the land viability process, loss.
The system of internal controls does, however, provide reasonable land acquisition control and monitoring, work in progress and assurance that potential issues can be identified promptly and subcontractor payment controls.
Where the internal audit team does appropriate remedial action taken.
nothave the expertise or resources required to conduct complex audits they deploy external expertise.
The Group operates internal controls to ensure that the Groups financial statements are reconciled to the underlying financial ledgers.
A review The Groups operations and financing arrangements expose it to ofthe consolidated accounts and financial statements is completed avariety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in debt, bymanagement to ensure that the financial position and results of the market prices, credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rates.
The most Group are appropriately reflected.
significant of these to the Group is liquidity risk and, accordingly, there isa regular, detailed system for the reporting and forecasting of cash The Risk Committee, subject to the general supervision of the Audit flows from the operations to Group management to ensure that risks Committee, is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the arepromptly identified and appropriate mitigating actions taken.
These Groupsinternal control policies and procedures for the identification, forecasts are further stress tested at a Group level on a regular basis to assessment and reporting of risks and to assess individual key risks ensure that adequate headroom within facilities and banking covenants ona rolling basis.
The Risk Committee consists of standing members is maintained.
In addition, the Group has in place a risk management comprising the Group Finance Director, Group General Counsel and programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects of the other risks Company Secretary, aRegional Managing Director and or Regional onits financial performance, in particular by using financial instruments, Finance Director and theChief Internal Auditor.
Other members of the including debt and derivatives, to hedge interest rates and currency Executive, heads offunction and senior managers attend meetings rates.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for byinvitation having regard to the business areas to be explored.
The Board approves treasury policies and has delegated certain day-to-day treasury activities to a centralised Treasury Operating Committee, which in turn regularly reports to the Board.
Thetreasury department implements guidelines that are established bythe Board and the Treasury Operating Committee.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE In accordance with principle C. 2.1. of the Code the Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, covering all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
A risk framework has been developed for all business processes by the internal audit function and approved by the Audit Committee.
This framework forms the basis of the internal control audit plan for the year ahead, which tests if controls are being applied effectively in each operating division.
Material issues identified during internal audits and follow-up action plans are reviewed by the Executive Directors and by the Board on a quarterly basis, and necessary actions are immediately taken to remedy any failings in the internal control system.
During the course of its review of systems of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which ithas determined to be significant.
Therefore, a confirmation of necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
In addition, the management teams of all operating divisions identify keyrisks in their monthly management reports to the Executive and complete a control self-assessment twice a year in which they confirm that they have applied appropriate levels of control.
The Audit Committee, as a standing agenda item every six months, reviews the risk framework to determine if the system of internal control remains effective and report on their findings to the Board.
During the year under review, the Executive prioritised the risk framework by identifying the risks considered most significant to the Group.
For each of the risks soidentified, an assessment has been made of the probability and potential impact on the business and these risks are reported on internally and reviewed during internal audits and control self-assessments.
48 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Activities undertaken in respect of the 2011 12 financial year The Audit Committee follows an annual work programme which coversthe principal responsibilities as set under its terms of reference availablefrom the Companys website www.
The Audit Committee undertook, amongst other matters, thefollowing activities in respect of the 2011 12 financial year: monitored the integrity of the Groups financial statements and reviewed all formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: monitored the Groups financial management and reporting systems and assessed the integrity and effectiveness of its accounting procedures, systems of internal control and the process for identifying and monitoring the material risks facing the Group: Introduction from the Chairman reviewed and challenged where necessary the consistency of, All members of the Audit Committee, as identified in Table 1 on andanyproposed changes to the Groups accounting policies: page 43, are independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance monitored the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the with Code provision C. 3.1.
The Board is satisfied that I have recent external auditor, the ratio and quantum of audit and non-audit fees, and relevant financial experience.
theeffectiveness of the external audit process and proposals for partner rotation: The Audit Committee met on three occasions during the financial year made recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, and attendance at each of these meetings is set out in Table 1 on page re-appointment and remuneration of the external auditor including 43.
The Audit Committees annual work programme requires it to meet theappointment of a new lead audit partner: aminimum of four times during a financial year.
In respect of the 2011 12 reviewed and monitored the effectiveness of the internal audit function, financial year, the fourth meeting took place on 2 July 2012.
All outstanding the annual internal auditplan and all reports produced by the internal matters from the Audit Committees 2011 12 annual work programme auditor and managements responsiveness to the findings and were dealt with atthat meeting, ensuring that the Audit Committee recommendations of the internal auditor: completed its annual work programme in full.
In addition tothe Group reviewed its own composition as part of its annual effectiveness General Counsel andCompany Secretary, representatives from the reviewand implemented the decision of the Board to appoint all auditor, Deloitte LLP Deloitte, together with the Chief Internal Auditor, Non-Executive Directors to each Board Committee resulting in the attended each of the Audit Committee meetings and met with the appointment of Tessa Bamford and Richard Akers as members with Committee independently ofmanagement and the Chairman.
The effect from 1 July 2012: and Group Chief Executive, the GroupFinance Director and other members reviewed whistleblowing procedures and ensured that arrangements of senior management arealso invited toattend meetings or parts were in place for proportionate and independent investigation and thereof as required.
follow-up action in respect of any matter raised pursuant to that process.
To enhance the effectiveness of the Audit Committee, it was agreed As well as carrying out the work associated with the annual financial thatall Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman should be reporting cycle under its annual work programme, the Audit Committee members of the Audit Committee.
Consequently, Richard Akers and undertakes other responsibilities during the year including: reviewing Tessa Bamford joined the Audit Committee with effect from 1 July 2012. theAudit Committees terms of reference, non-audit fees policy, the whistleblowing policy, key accounting policies, the external audit plan The following section details the work undertaken by the Audit and associated reports and undertaking its annual effectiveness review.
Committee in respect of the 2011 12 financial year.
Re-appointment of Auditor The Audit Committee considered the re-appointment of Deloitte as the Mark Rolfe auditor to the Company in September 2012.
Deloitte was appointed as CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE theauditor of the Company through an external tender process in 2007.
Inaccordance with UK ethical and professional guidance on the rotation ofaudit partners, a new lead audit partner was appointed to the Company, after consideration of and interview of the short listed candidates in July 2012.
Taking into account this appointment: Deloittes objectivity and independence: the ratio of audit to non-audit fees: Deloittes performance against the audit plan for the 2011 12 financial year: and the quality of advice and assistance received throughout the year, the Committee concluded that Deloittes performance as auditor tothe Company continues to be satisfactory andrecommended to the Board that a resolution re-appointing Deloitte asthe auditor to the Company be proposed at the 2012 AGM.
Thatrecommendation wassubsequently endorsed by the Board.
There arenocontractual obligations which restrict the Audit Committees choice ofexternal auditor.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Auditor objectivity and independence Activities undertaken in respect of the 2011 12 financial year The Audit Committee reviewed the policy which the Company The Remuneration Committee undertook the following activities hasimplemented on Auditor Independence and non-audit Fees inrespect of the 2011 12 financial year: thePolicy during the year.
The Policy sets out the duties of the determined and reviewed the overall remuneration policy of the Group AuditCommittee and the limited range of services which the auditor with regard to attracting, retaining and motivating directors and senior may provide without requiring prior approval of the Audit Committee.
managers of the experience and calibre required by the Group having Any services outside this scope must be approved by the Audit regard to remuneration paid to employees across the Group and an Committee in order to maintain auditor independence and monitor external comparable group of companies: non-audit fees incurred by the Group.
The Policy also sets out a number determined, reviewed and made recommendations to the Board of services which the external auditor is excluded from providing to the onthe remuneration package and service contract of the Chairman: Group.
These include: agreed targets and benefits in respect of performance related pay bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records schemes, including long-term performance plans, for all participating orfinancial statements: employees which are: sufficiently challenging: fair and highly motivating: financial information systems design and implementation relating commensurate with sector practice: and consistent with maximising tothefinancial statements or accounting records: shareholder value and the interests and expectations of shareholders: appraisal or valuation services or fairness opinions: determined the total remuneration package of the Group Chief actuarial services: Executive and after consultation with him, the total individual internal audit outsourcing services: and remuneration package of each Executive Director and senior management functions, legal services or executive recruiting.
management including bonuses, incentive payments and share options awards and pension arrangements: and Under the Policy the Company is required to, and does, obtain written undertook consultations with institutional investors on remuneration confirmation from the auditor that they remain independent on an policy and other aspects of senior remuneration, as appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for agreeing During the 2011 12 financial year Deloitte continued in their role as severance arrangements or other compensation for loss of office theGroups tax advisers, having been appointed to the position on orearly retirement for the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior 1December 2010 following a competitive tender process in which four management and appointing consultants to advise on executive ofthe leading audit firms took part.
The Audit Committee, having consulted remuneration.
Details of the consultants utilised during the 2011 12 with the Group Finance Director, concluded that the audit to non-audit financial year can be found on page 55 of the Remuneration Report.
fees ratio remained proportionate and in line with best practice guidelines and, given that the tax advisory services are managed by a partner Employment policy and involvement whohasno involvement with the audit of the Group, it remains satisfied The Group is committed to seeking to develop the talents of its employees thatthe appointment of Deloitte as tax advisers does not undermine their so that they can maximise their career potential and attempts to provide independence as the auditor to the Group and this has been confirmed rewarding careers in an atmosphere that engenders equal opportunities by Deloitte.
The Audit Committee also considered a discrete exercise for all.
Selection for employment and promotion is based on merit, that management proposed, and which was undertaken using the following an objective assessment of ability and experience ofcandidates property expertise of Drivers Jonas Deloitte, which, again, the Audit after giving full and fair consideration to all applications including Committee was satisfied did not impact Deloittes independence.
The Group is also committed to ensuring that its workplaces are free from unlawful discrimination of any sort.
The Group The Audit Committee confirms that the guidelines described above strives to ensure that its policies and practices provide equal opportunities were followed throughout the year: that there are no independence in respect of issues such as training, career development and promotion issues in respect of the auditor: and that the Policy has been for all existing or potential staff irrespective of gender, race, ethnic origin, appropriately complied with throughout the year under review.
colour, religion, physical disability, marital status, sexual orientation or age.
Detailsofthe audit related and non-audit fees incurred by the Every effort is made to retain and support employees who become Groupcanbe found on page 89. disabled whilst working within the Group.
Remuneration Committee The Board recognises that appropriate employee engagement is a All members of the Remuneration Committee, as set out in Table 1 keyfactor in the long-term success of the Group.
It has, accordingly, onpage 43, are considered by the Company to be independent in implemented a comprehensive employee engagement programme with accordance with Code provision D. 2.1.
Richard Akers joined the the aim of creating a strong, shared culture.
All employees are invited Committee on 2 April 2012 and Mark Rolfe joined the Committee totake part in an engagement survey each year and the results of this witheffect from 1 July 2012.
The Remuneration Committee met on survey are fed back to each operating division, who use the results fiveoccasions during the financial year.
Attendance at each of these toformulate plans for maintaining or improving engagement in the meetings is set out in Table 1 on page 43.
The full terms of reference following year.
for the Remuneration Committee are available from the Companys website www.
The report of the A key part of effective employee engagement is communication.
The Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 53 to 66.
Company seeks to ensure that all significant events, economic factors and financial updates and the impact of these on the performance of theGroup are communicated to employees through email alerts, core 50 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 briefings and regular newsletters.
Additionally the Group Chief Executive Relations with shareholders regularly briefs senior and middle management via conference calls The Board recognises the importance of having an ongoing relationship which gives them the opportunity to ask questions and enter into with its shareholders and other stakeholders.
It fully supports the principles dialogue.
Individually and collectively, the Board and the Executive of the Code and the UK Stewardship Code which encourage open Committee members visit operating divisions and sites frequently dialogue between companies and their shareholders.
The Group has inorder to assess operational performance, engage with employees arrangements in place which enable it to communicate effectively with onaone-to-one basis and gain first-hand experience of employees shareholders in respect of issues such as business strategy, governance, aspirations and concerns.
remuneration and any senior management or Board changes.
The Group runs a graduate Recruitment and Development Programme Information about the Group, its Board and its business, including the consisting of a two-year multi-disciplinary programme of both on-job annual and interim reports, interim management statements and trading and off-job modules.
24 graduates completed their two year graduate updates, company announcements and details on services available programme in August 2012 and the Group has recruited 24 new toshareholders can be found on the Companys website at graduates who commenced the first year of the Groups graduate www.
Information of a price sensitive programme in September 2012. natureis communicated as required via a Regulatory Information Service and the Group strives to ensure that all key information is effectively The Group is committed to appropriate employee training and andclearly communicated.
development at all levels of the organisation.
It has introduced a suite ofleadership and management development programmes aimed at The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director meet alllevels within the organisation from graduates to middle management regularly with investors and analysts in order to convey an understanding and through to senior management.
The programme is designed and of the Groups operations, the market and its management objectives.
delivered internally and is tailored to the needs of the business.
The These meetings take place during the year but particularly after the Group also offers the Barratt Academy, a staged programme to enable annual and interim results announcements.
The Chairman and other employee development from Apprentice to Site Manager and also in the Non-Executive Directors also have the opportunity to attend meetings Technical and Commercial disciplines.
Succession planning is in place with major shareholders at the request of either party and the Senior across the Group and the leadership programmes assist with the Independent Director is available to meet with major shareholders, as and development of individuals as part of the succession plan.
when required, to gain an understanding of any issues and concerns.
In February 2012 the Company invited all eligible employees of the The notice of each AGM and related papers are circulated to all Group to participate in the fourth grant under the Savings Related Share shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All Directors, Option Scheme which was approved by shareholders at the Companys including the Chairmen of the Committees, attend every AGM and are 2008 AGM the SRSOS.
This gave those individuals who had available to answer shareholder questions before, during and after the participated inprevious grants under the SRSOS, but not used up all meeting.
The Group Chief Executive also gives a presentation on the oftheir entitlement, the opportunity to increase their savings and gave progress and performance of the Group prior to the formal business other employees the chance to participate in the SRSOS and become ofthe meeting.
more involved in the Groups performance.
As at 30 June 2012, approximately 41% of employees now participate in the SRSOS.
In order to ensure that all Directors are aware of, and have a clear understanding of, the views of major shareholders, the Group Finance Whistleblowing Director presents regular reports to the Board on the Companys The Groups whistleblowing policy is supported by a robust investor relations activities.
whistleblowing procedure whereby individuals who become aware ofpossible improper, unethical or even illegal behaviour can either Going concern raisethe matter with their manager or alternatively refer the matter In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the financial toaconfidential and independent whistleblowing reporting line the statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group Whistleblowing Number which is available to all employees 24 hours can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Any issues reported to the Whistleblowing Number are immediately brought to the attention of the Chief Internal The Groups business activities, together with factors which the Directors Auditor.
The Chief Internal Auditor reviews and investigates the issue, consider are likely to affect its future development, financial performance seeking guidance from appropriate individuals within the Group, such and financial position are set out in the Group Chief Executives Review asthe Group Chief Executive and or Group General Counsel and on pages 8 to 15 and the Business Review on pages 18 to 35.
The Company Secretary, as and when he deems necessary.
Whistleblowing material financial and operational risks and uncertainties that may impact is a standing agenda item for every Audit Committee meeting.
The the Groups performance and their mitigation are outlined on pages 36 to ChiefInternal Auditor therefore updates the Committee regularly on any 39 and financial risks including liquidity risk, market risk, credit risk and new whistleblowing incidents, ongoing investigations and the outcome capital risk are outlined in note 25 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee also assesses theadequacy of the Groups whistleblowing policy in accordance with The financial performance of the Group is dependent upon the wider the requirements of the Code as part of this process.
economic environment in which the Group operates.
As explained intheprincipal risks and uncertainties on pages 36 to 39, factors that particularly impact upon the performance of the Group include changes BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE in the macroeconomic environment, such as buyer confidence, availability of mortgage finance for the Groups customers and interest rates.
As announced in May 2011, in accordance with the terms of the Groups refinancing, on 26 April 2012, the Groups committed revolving credit facilities RCFs totalling 1,190.5m terminated and the forward start RCFs totalling 780m became available for drawing.
At 30 June 2012, the Groups totalcommitted facilities and private placement notes were 1,091m.
The maturity dates of these facilities range from April 2013 toJuly 2021, with 690m of the RCFs maturing in May 2015.
The covenant package remains unchanged to that announced in May2011.
On 6 September 2012, the Group gave voluntary notice to cancel the 90m RCF with effect from 12 September 2012, which reduces the Groups total committed facilities and private placement notes to 1,001m.
The committed facilities and private placement notes now in place provide appropriate headroom above our current forecast debt requirements.
Accordingly, after making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements that there isa reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being atleast 12 months from the date of these financial statements.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing theconsolidated financial statements.
Post balance sheet events As noted above, on 6 September 2012 the Group gave voluntary notice to cancel the 90m RCF with effect from 12 September 2012, which reduces the Groups total committed facilities and private placement notes to 1,001m.
On behalf of the Board Tom Keevil GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL AND COMPANY SECRETARY 11 September 2012 52 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
