59 Audit committee report John Barnsley, the chairman of the committee is a chartered accountant and Belinda Richards, who prior to joining the board wasGlobal Head of Deloittes Merger, Integration and Separation Advisory Services both have recent and relevant financial experience as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Groups external auditors are  LLP.
The audit committee is responsible for reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external auditor, and ensuring this is safeguarded notwithstanding any provision of any other services John Barnsley tothe group.
Committee Chairman The board recognises the importance of safeguarding auditor The audit committee currently comprises four independent objectivity and has taken the following steps to ensure that auditor non-executive directors.
independence is not compromised: Meetings The audit committee carries out each year a full evaluation of the Member Meetings eligible to Committee member since attended attend external auditor as to its complete independence from the group John Barnsley and relevant ofcers of the group in all material respects and that committee chairman February 2003 4 4 it is adequately resourced and technically capable to deliver an Baroness Margaret Ford July 2008 3 4 objective audit to shareholders.
Based on this review the audit Belinda Richards April 2011 4 4 committee recommends to the board each year the continuation, Tony Wray November 2011 4 4 or removal and replacement, of the external auditor: The external auditors provide audit-related services such as Biographical details relating to each regulatory and statutory reporting as well as formalities relating to of the committee members is shown shareholders and other circulars: on pages 50 and 51.
The external auditors may undertake due diligence reviews and provide assistance on tax and pension matters given its knowledge of the groups businesses.
Such provision will however be assessed on a case-by-case basis so that the best placed adviser is retained.
The audit committee monitors the application of policy in this regard and keeps the policy under review: Grainger plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Audit committee report continued The audit committee reviews on a regular basis all fees paid for Key activities audit, and all consultancy fees, with a view to assessing They key work undertaken by the committee during the year was reasonableness of fees, value of delivery, and any independence asfollows: issues that may have arisen or may potentially arise in the future: C onsideration and review of full year and half year results.
The auditors report to the directors and the audit committee M eeting with the external auditors and discussing with them the conrming their independence in accordance with Auditing significant financial reporting issues and accounting policies.
In addition to the steps taken by the board to A greeing the scope of the work to be undertaken by the external safeguard auditor objectivity,  LLP auditors for their review of the half year results and year end operates a five-year rotation policy for audit partners.
year a rotation occurred and a new audit partner took over D iscussing with the external auditors the anticipated impact of responsibility for the audit: and changes in forthcoming accounting standards.
D ifferent teams are utilised on all other assignments undertaken C onsideration and approval of the annual internal audit plan, by the auditors.
Before any such assignments can commence internal audit resources and periodic reports from internal audit.
teams must obtain approval from the senior statutory audit R eviewing the audit committees terms of reference.
partner and the approval of the audit committee.
This approval R eviewing the Groups Whistleblowing Policy and satisfying confirms that sufficient and appropriate safeguards are put in themselves that this meets FSA rules and good standards of place to ensure that auditor independence is retained.
The audit committee give careful consideration before appointing The Groups Internal Audit Manager has direct access to the the auditors to provide other services.
The group regularly use other chairman of the audit committee, and meets with him, without providers to ensure that independence and full value for money are thepresence of management, to discuss the planning of audit achieved.
Other services are generally limited to work that is closely committee meetings.
related to the annual audit or where the work is of such a nature that a detailed understanding of the business is necessary.
During the year, 64,000 was paid by the group to  LLP for taxation services.
A further 368,000 was paid for other services, the main element of which was 325,000 relating to the preparation of a financial due diligence report in relation to the groups German business.
