Grainger plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Chairmans Introduction The board of Grainger is Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The governance rules applicable to all UK companies admitted committedto maintaining high tothe Ofcial List of the UK Listing Authority are set out in the standards of corporate governance.
UKCorporate Governance Code the Code, published by the FinancialReporting Council.
The board fully supports the principles The directors and I see this set out in the Code and confirms that it has complied with all of theprovisions of the Code throughout the financial year ended asfundamental to effective 30September 2012. management of the business This report sets out Graingers governance policies and practices and includes details of how the group applies the principles and anddelivery of long-term complies with the provisions of the Code.
Composition and independence The board reviews non-executive director independence on an annual basis and takes into account the individuals professional characteristics, their behaviour at board meetings and their contribution to unbiased and independent debate.
All of the non-executive directors are considered by the board to be independent.
We are aware that, for some investors, length of non-executive directors service beyond nine years will prejudice their independence.
John Barnsley, the senior independent director, has served on the board since February 2003.
The board and myself believe that John Barnsley continues to Robin Broadhurst Chairman exercise a degree of rigorous enquiry and intellectual challenge in respect of his role as non-executive director and as such continues to regard him as independent.
His continuity of service has been, and continues to be of considerable benefit to the company through a period of significant change in both the executive and non-executive directors and provides an important knowledge link with the past and an in-depth understanding of the company which is considered to be highly beneficial to the board.
Further, this enhanced duration of service is complementary to the longer term business cycle applicable to the Grainger business model.
