71 Board risk and compliance committee report The committee was established during the year and held itsrst formal meeting in May 2012.
Since its inception the committee has overseen the development of a group wide risk appetite statement which clearly lays out the level of risk that the business is prepared to tolerate in order to achieve its goals in each of the key risk areas strategic, operational, financial, people, project, legal & regulatory and IT.
Thestatement has been adopted and now forms a framework within which management decisions and reporting occur.
Belinda Richards Committee chairman On a standing agenda basis, the committee reviews the groups top risks, key projects, complaints register, internal audit risk reports and the quarterly report from the group risk and compliance manager.
On a rolling basis there is a thorough review of each division and each core business activity process.
This year there have The Board Risk and Compliance Committee currently comprise three been specic reviews of the German business, Retirement Solutions, independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
Block Management and Health & Safety Management.
The purpose Meetings Meetings eligible to of these detailed reviews is to highlight the principal risks and Committee member attended attend processes of each division at a more detailed level and to ensure that Belinda Richards the risk mitigation plans are robust.
Committee chairman 22 The Retirement Solutions business isregulated by the FSA.
The John Barnsley 22 committee oversees compliance with regulatory obligations and Tony Wray 22 receives regular updates on proposed future regulatory Mark Greenwood 22 developments, such as the formation of the Financial Conduct Peter Couch 22 Authority.
Treating Customers Fairly, one of ourkeyregulatory obligations, is at the heart of Graingers operatingphilosophy.
The culture of risk awareness, and effective risk management, is becoming embedded in the way that Grainger thinks and operates at all levels within the business.
This focus will be critical in protecting our outstanding reputation in the market as we move forward.
