Directors Report 55 Directors Corporate Governance Statement Directors Corporate Governance Statement Michael Harper I am pleased to introduce the Directors Corporate Governance Chairman Statement.
The Board is responsible for ensuring the continuing long-term success of BBA Aviation and the delivery of long-term, sustainable value creation for all of BBA Aviations stakeholders.
The Board firmly believes that a major contributor to that successis good and appropriate corporate governance that is relevant to BBA Aviation, the markets in which it operates and delivery of its long-term, strategic objectives.
The Board is therefore committed to ensuring that appropriate standards ofgovernance are maintained throughout the Group.
The Board also considers that its own continuing effectiveness is vital to the Group delivering its strategic objectives.
As Chairman I am responsible for leading the Board and ensuring ongoing improvement in the Boards effectiveness, supported by all members of the Board, but in particular by Nick Land, the Senior Independent Director, who also independently meets with the other directors and is available if required to meet with shareholders.
As a Board, and as individual directors, we strive to continuously improve the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees in support of the Groups objective of delivering exceptional long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
In 2011 our Board performance evaluation was externally facilitated and we used the action points from that when setting Board objectives in 2012 and in developing and undertaking our internal evaluation in 2012.
We keep our policies and procedures under regular review, bearing in mind the ever evolving business and governance environment that we operate in, as well as drawing on the range of experience offered by Board members.
While we value the longevity of service of the longerserving members of the Board and the depth of understanding of our businesses that they bring, the Board and the Nomination Committee is aware of the importance of progressive refreshment of the Board.
As a first step to implement that progressive refreshment we welcomed Susan Kilsby to the Board in April 2012.
The Corporate Governance Statement that follows gives more details about our governance policies and procedures, about the structure of our Board Committees and about the areas our meetings focus on.
Board members appreciate their interactions with shareholders and listen carefully to any comments.
I welcome your comments on this Corporate Governance Statement and on the 2012 Annual Report more generally.
Michael Harper Chairman 28 February 2013 Directors Report 56 Directors Corporate Governance Statement 1.
2012 Board and Board Committee Meeting Attendance The Board is committed to ensuring appropriate standards of The following table shows the attendance of Board and Board corporate governance are maintained at BBA Aviation plc.
Committee members at scheduled meetings.
It does not show The Company applies the principles of corporate attendance by non-Committee members at meetings to which governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code they were invited.
published in June 2010 the Code which sets out the Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination standards of good practice in relation to board leadership and Board Committee Committee Committee effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with Number of shareholders.
The Code is publicly available at the website of the Financial Reporting Council: www.
The Board scheduled meetings 8 5 4 1 monitors the evolution of corporate governance best practice, Michael Harper 8 1 reviews and updates its procedures as required and adopts, Simon Pryce 8 where relevant, recommendations of governance review bodies.
Mark Hoad 8 The directors can confirm compliance throughout 2012 Nick Land 8 5 4 1 with all relevant provisions set out in the Code.
Mark Harper 8 5 4 1 The Independent Auditors Report concerning the Susan Kilsby 7 4 3 1 Companys compliance with the Code appears on page 77.
The Boards Role Hansel Tookes 8 5 4 1 The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the long-term Susan Kilsby was appointed to the Board, Audit and Risk, Remuneration success of the Company.
Its role includes providing effective and Nomination Committees on 10 April 2012. leadership and agreeing the Groups strategic aims.
It assesses business opportunities and seeks to ensure that appropriate Directors unable to attend a meeting discuss with the relevant controls are in place to assess and manage risk.
It is responsible for chairman their views on the business of that meeting.
reviewing managements performance and oversees senior level succession planning within the Group.
The Board and Independence for setting the Companys values and standards, ensuring the At the date of this report, the Board comprises the Chairman, five Companys obligations to its shareholders are met.
independent non-executive directors and two executive directors There were eight scheduled Board meetings in 2012.
Details who contribute a wide range of complementary skills and of attendance at scheduled Board and Board Committee experience.
Set out on pages 8 and 9 are short biographies of meetings are shown in the table in section 3.
Board meetings each director, including that of Susan Kilsby who was appointed focus on strategy and financial and business performance.
During 2012 Michael Harper retired Additional meetings are called as required to deal with specific as chairman and board member of Vitec plc.
The Board agenda is set by the Chairman in consultation The Board has determined that Nick Land, Mark Harper, with the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, other Peter Ratcliffe, Susan Kilsby and Hansel Tookes are independent in Board members and the Group Secretary.
The Company has formal procedures in The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for place to ensure that the Boards powers to authorise conflicts are decision including approval of matters such as: operated effectively and such procedures have been followed strategy and objectives throughout 2012.
Group policies The Board has decided that all Board members wishing to annual budgets continue serving on the Board will retire and stand for re-election dividends at the 2013 AGM.
The Board believes that each of the directors acquisitions and disposals of businesses over a certain size should be re-elected by shareholders because each continues to expenditure over a certain limit be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role that each financial results of them performs.
appointment and removal of directors and company secretary During the year the Chairman met the other non-executive directors without the attendance of the executive directors on a This schedule of matters is reviewed by the Board each year.
There was a formal meeting of the Senior Matters outside the scope of this formal schedule are decided by Independent Director and non-executive directors withoutthe management in accordance with delegated authorities approved Chairman present which included a review of the performance of by the Board and by the Audit and Risk Committee.
the Chairman taking into account the views of the executive The Chairman and each of the non-executive directors directors.
There were several other occasions during the year has provided assurances to the Board that they remain fully when discussions between various directors took place on an committed to their respective roles and can dedicate the informal basis.
necessary amount of time to attend to the Companys affairs.
Executive directors must obtain the prior consent of the Board before accepting a non-executive directorship in any othercompany.
Executive directors may retain the fees from any such directorship.
No executive directors held non-executive directorships during 2012.
Directors Report 57 Directors Corporate Governance Statement 5.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive the Group.
For itself the Board does continue to have an aspiration Throughout 2012 there has continued to be a clear division of to increase female representation on the Board and, when responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief engaging external search consultants to identify future candidates Executive.
Michael Harper as the Chairman is primarily responsible for Board roles, such consultants would be requested to take full for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
Simon Pryce account of all aspects of diversity in preparing their candidate list.
as the Group Chief Executive is responsible for the development Across BBA Aviation as at 31 December 2012 three of the and after discussion and agreement with the Board tenmember Executive Management Committee were women, implementation of Board strategy and policy and the running approximately 17% of the senior executive positions in BBA of the Groups business.
The written statement of the division of Aviation were held by women: and approximately 22% of the responsibilities between the two positions was last reviewed by Groups total workforce were women.
There is a written framework for the induction of new directors which includes site visits, meetings with senior management and advisers and the provision of corporate Michael Harper as Chairman is primarily responsible for: documentation.
The focus of any induction programme is tailored leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness: to the background of the new director concerned.
The induction setting the Board agenda and ensuring the directors of a new executive director would be mostly focused on the receive information in an accurate, clear and timely manner: obligations and requirements of being the director of a listed promoting effective decision-making: company.
An induction for a non-executive director who already ensuring the performance of the Board, its committees holds other listed company directorships as was the case for and individual directors are evaluated on an annual basis: Susan Kilsby who joined the Board in April 2012 would be more and focused on introducing the director to the businesses within BBA ensuring that appropriate Board training and development Aviation.
New non-executive directors are also available to meet occurs.
Appointments of non-executive directors are made by the Simon Pryce as Group Chief Executive is responsible for: Board for an initial term of three years.
This term is subject to the the development and after discussion and agreement usual regulatory provisions and continued satisfactory performance with the Board implementation of Board strategy of duties following the Boards annual performance evaluation.
and policy: Re-appointment for a further term is not automatic but may be the running of the Groups business: made by mutual agreement.
All continuing directors of the ensuring that the business strategy and activities are Company will retire and stand for re-election at the 2013 AGM.
effectively communicated and promoted within and The fees of the non-executive directors are determined outside the business: and bythe Board as a whole on the recommendation of the Group building positive relationships with the Companys Chief Executive.
No director is involved in deciding his or her own stakeholders.
Details of the fees of non-executive directors are set out on page 72 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Board Appointments Letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are The Board acknowledges its responsibility for planned and available for inspection by shareholders at each AGM and during progressive refreshing of the Board.
There is a formal and normal business hours at the Companys registered office.
transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board, the prime responsibility for which is delegated to the 7.
Information and Professional Development Nomination Committee.
Further details about that committee are The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the directors set out in section 9b below.
receive accurate, timely and clear information with Board and The Nomination Committee had one scheduled meeting in Committee papers being circulated sufficiently in advance of 2012 and one arranged at shorter notice.
In its scheduled June meetings.
The Board and its Committees are kept informed of meeting the Nomination Committee discussed matters relating corporate governance and relevant regulatory developments as to succession planning and talent planning for leadership they arise and receive topical business briefings.
Diversity is considered as one aspect of those keeps itself informed about the Companys activities through a succession planning discussions, along with, for example, ways of structured programme of presentations from each of the developing and strengthening the pipeline of talent within the businesses within the Group and from a number of Group Group and ways of increasing the interaction between Board functional leaders.
members and senior members of executive management and In 2012 senior executives also gave presentations to the talented future executives.
Board on projects in development and there were presentations Within the topic of diversity there are a variety of different from some of the Companys corporate advisers.
aspects, including professional and industry experience, In addition in 2012, as in previous years, the Board invited understanding of different geographical regions, ethnic each Executive Management Committee member in turn to background and gender.
The Board does not believe that gender attend the whole of one Board meeting.
In 2013, as a consequence quotas or any other quotas promote effectively the development of the restructuring of the roles of Executive Management of appropriate and broad diversity.
The Board does believe that an Committee members, Peg Billson and Michael Scheeringa will appreciation of the value that a diverse range of backgrounds both be invited to attend all Board meetings.
brings is an important part of succession planning at all levels in Directors Report 58 Directors Corporate Governance Statement The Audit and Risk Committee is routinely briefed on included matters relating to ensuring executive continuity accounting and technical matters by senior management and through talent management, the location of Board meetings by the external auditor.
In 2012 briefings included considering and the Boards composition and tenure.
the progress of the exposure draft on revenue recognition andof proposed revisions to the exposure draft on accounting In addition, the Senior Independent Director, in consultation with for leases.
the other non-executive directors and taking into account the The Remuneration Committee receives updates on views of the executive directors, reviewed the performance of the remuneration trends and market practices as part of its Chairman and the performance evaluation and appraisal process regularly scheduled business and in 2012 Towers Watson also as a whole.
held a training update session covering the current status of Overall the conclusion from the Board evaluation and the UKGovernments proposals on reporting of executive appraisal process was positive, with each individual director remuneration.
contributing actively to the effective performance of the Board and the Committees of which he or she is a member.
A number of In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman maintains areaswere identified as appropriate for focus in 2013 and for regular contact during the year with the other directors to discuss further continuous improvement.
Opportunities exist throughout the year for The Board has reviewed the objectives it set itself for 2012 informal contact between Board members and with members of relating to strategy, succession planning, leadership team the senior management team.
development and Board information and considers it has made Site visits are an important part of the Boards programme, good progress against these objectives.
The Board has set further enabling Board members to meet employees in individual objectives for 2013. operations.
In 2012 the Board held two of its scheduled eight meetings 9.
Board Committees outside the UK: one meeting was held in Los Angeles and one The Board operates a Remuneration Committee, a Nomination meeting was held in Dallas.
The directors had the opportunity Committee and an Audit and Risk Committee.
Written terms of to meet formally and informally with a number of employees reference for each Committee are reviewed each year and are based in the area, as well as to visit Ontics Chatsworth facility available on the Groups website www.
com or on and Dallas Airmotives facility at Heritage Park and talk to request from the Group Secretary.
a. Remuneration Committee A register of the training that individual directors have undertaken Composition is maintained by the Company and this register is periodically The composition of the Remuneration Committee during 2012 is reviewed by the Chairman with the director concerned as part of set out in the table below.
All Committee members are the Chairmans regular review of their training and development independent non-executive directors.
Susan Kilsby was appointed needs.
If particular training needs are identified, then plans are to the Committee on 10 April 2012. put in place and the Company provides appropriate resources for During Year developing and updating the directors knowledge and skills.
01 01 12 Resigned Appointed 31 12 12 28 02 13 TheBoard believes that the identification of individual training Mark Harper and development needs is primarily the responsibility of each Chairman individual director, bearing in mind the range of experiences and Susan Kilsby n a 10 04 12 skills that are developed by their differing portfolios.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Nick Land Group Secretary and the Board has established a procedure Peter Ratcliffe whereby directors wishing to do so in furtherance of their duties Hansel Tookes may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Company arranges appropriate insurance cover in During 2012 the Remuneration Committee had four scheduled respect of legal actions against its directors.
The Company has meetings and one additional meeting.
These meetings were also entered into indemnities with its directors as described on minuted by the Group Secretary.
Executive directors, the Group page 53 of this Directors Report.
HR Director and Michael Harper attend Remuneration Committee meetings by invitation.
Board Effectiveness Review In the autumn of 2012 the Chairman, in conjunction with the Role Senior Independent Director, led the performance evaluation The Remuneration Committee has two principal functions: and appraisal process for the Board, its members and its making recommendations to the Board on the framework and mainCommittees.
The Chairman discussed with each director Board policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive individually: directors and other designated senior executives: and their replies to a questionnaire they had previously completed determining on behalf of the Board the specific remuneration concerning the Board, its Committees and their operation: package for each of the executive directors, including pension progress made on the action points agreed following the rights and any compensation payments.
externally facilitated 2011 Board performance evaluation that Directors Report 59 Directors Corporate Governance Statement Work of the Committee with BBA Aviation plc.
The consultant draws up a list of potential Further details of the work of the Remuneration Committee candidates and a shortlist is created through consultation appear in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Board as a whole is also updated regularly as to the status of the appointment b.
Meetings as appropriate are arranged with Committee Composition members and the Committee aims to ensure that each Board The composition of the Nomination Committee during 2012 is member is given the opportunity to meet any short-listed setout in the table below.
The Nomination Committee now candidates.
comprises the Chairman and five independent non-executive The Nomination Committee would then meet to finalise a directors.
Susan Kilsby was appointed to the Committee on recommendation to the Board regarding the appointment.
The 10April 2012. final decision rests with the full Board.
During Year Further details about Board appointments and the work of 01 01 12 Resigned Appointed 31 12 12 28 02 13 the Nomination Committee are set out in section 6 above.
Michael Harper Chairman c. Audit and Risk Committee Mark Harper Nick Land Susan Kilsby n a 10 04 12 Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Nick Land Peter Ratcliffe Hansel Tookes Other directors attend Nomination Committee meetings by invitation.
The Nomination Committee meets as required.
During The Audit and Risk Committee, as can be seen from the 2012 the Committee had one scheduled meeting and one description of its role, discharges a number of key additional meeting.
This was supplemented by informal meetings, responsibilities on behalf of the Board and the Company.
individual briefings and meetings between Committee members.
Thisincludes monitoring BBA Aviations financial reporting processes, overseeing the work of the internal audit team and Role reporting on the independence and objectivity of the The primary responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to: appointed external auditor.
make appropriate recommendations to the Board for the While risk strategy and risk appetite are matters for the appointment of replacement or additional directors: whole Board, the oversight of the processes that underpin risk devise and consider succession planning arrangements for assessment and internal control are matters that the Board directors and senior executives: and delegates to this Committee.
regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard Nick Land to any changes.
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Work of the Committee Composition The Nomination Committee carefully evaluates the existing The composition of the Audit and Risk Committee during 2012 is balance of experience, skills, knowledge, independence and set out in the table below.
Susan Kilsby was appointed to the diversity of backgrounds on the Board when the Committee Committee on 10 April 2012.
All members of the Audit and Risk considers Board succession planning.
The Committee recognises Committee are independent non-executive directors.
Nick Land, that promoting an inclusive environment and diverse participation the Committees Chairman, has recent and relevant financial on the Board requires that the external search consultants used experience and a professional accountancy qualification as bythe Board to identify future candidates for a Board role be considered desirable by the Financial Reporting Councils requested to approach their search with these goals in mind.
Guidance on Audit Committees issued in September 2012.
In Other factors that also need to be taken into account are the addition the other Committee members all have experience of current and future requirements of the Company and, in the case corporate financial matters and Peter Ratcliffe has a professional of a non-executive appointment, the time commitment expected.
The appointment process is initiated by identifying suitable During Year external search consultants for the vacancy and preparing details 01 01 12 Resigned Appointed 31 12 12 28 02 13 of the role and capabilities required for the appointment.
Such Nick Land consultants will be a signatory to the voluntary code of conduct Chairman for executive search firms on gender diversity.
The process differs in its detail depending on whether the appointment is for an Mark Harper executive or non-executive position, but the essentials remain Susan Kilsby n a 10 04 12 thesame, and it was followed prior to the appointment to the Peter Ratcliffe Board of Susan Kilsby.
In that instance Stonehaven LLP were the Hansel Tookes external consultants used.
They do not have any other connection Directors Report 60 Directors Corporate Governance Statement During 2012 the Audit and Risk Committee had five scheduled The Audit and Risk Committee discharges its responsibilities meetings, generally coinciding with key dates in the financial through the review of written reports circulated in advance of reporting and audit cycle, and one additional meeting.
The meetings and by discussing these reports and any other matters external auditor and Head of Group Internal Audit regularly attend with the relevant auditors and management.
these meetings which are minuted by the Group Secretary.
The Topics covered by the Committee during 2012 and to date Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and in 2013included: Group Financial Controller also generally join at least part of the review of any significant issues from reports from both the Audit and Risk Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee internal and external audits: Chairman may call a meeting at the request of any director or the consideration of the audit fee and the balance between audit Companys external auditor.
and non-audit fees: assessment of the risk of the possible withdrawal of Deloitte Role LLP from the external auditor market: The Audit and Risk Committee may consider any matter that annual review of the terms of reference of the Committee, of might have a financial impact on the Group.
However, its primary the schedule of the Committees agenda items for the roles are to: forthcoming year, of the non-audit services policy and of BBA monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys Aviations matrix of authority levels: internal control and risk assessment: discussion of steps taken to mitigate Euro zone risk and monitor the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit consideration of the stability of core relationship banks: function: discussion of the further development of Group Internal review the Companys external audit function including the Audits overall strategy and approach including the conclusions annual audit plan and results of the external audit and the from an enterprise risk assurance mapping project: and independence of the external auditor: other topics that are described in more detail in section 10. monitor the integrity and audit of the Companys financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the In 2012 the Audit and Risk Committee held two confidential Companys financial performance, including a review of the sessions without management present with the Head of Group significant financial reporting judgements contained within Internal Audit and with the external auditor.
them: and establish and oversee the Companys arrangements for 10.
Audit and Accountability employee disclosure and fraud prevention arrangements a.
Auditor Independence and Audit Effectiveness within the Company.
Central to the Audit and Risk Committees work is the review and monitoring of the external auditors independence and objectivity Work of the Committee and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committee carried The Committee reviews twice yearly reports on the Groups key out a formal audit service assessment in respect of work business risks and the Audit and Risk Committee whose members carried out during the year including a review of audit plans are also members of the Remuneration Committee is aware of and the qualifications, expertise, resources, effectiveness and the importance of keeping the appropriateness of incentive independence of the external auditor.
The Audit and Risk structures under review.
The Committee assesses compliance Committee has also carried out a self-assessment and believes with the directors responsibility statement.
that it has satisfied the requirements of the Code and the Guidance There is a twice yearly formal report to the Committee on on Audit Committees published by the Financial Reporting business ethics and compliance, which includes such matters Council in December 2010.
The Committee has confirmed that asthe review of the Groups Disclosure of Unethical Conduct during the year it had formal and transparent arrangements for Policy under which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns considering corporate reporting and risk management and aboutpossible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate other matters.
In addition the Committee at each meeting reviews relationship with the Companys auditor.
reports on any items arising under that policy.
One of the safeguards to ensure auditor objectivity and The Committee is responsible for making recommendations independence is the Groups policy on the provision of non-audit to the Board on matters within its remit, including regarding the services by its external auditor.
The policy is reviewed each year remuneration and appointment of the external auditor.
While the and in December 2012 it was updated to prohibit the Groups appointment of the external auditor is considered each year, it is external auditors from carrying out remuneration consultancy the policy of the Committee to review the appointment in greater and tax planning work for the Group.
The external auditor is also detail at least every five years, taking into account a number of prohibited from carrying out a number of other services for the factors, including audit effectiveness at both operating company Group such as book-keeping, internal audit, valuations, actuarial and Group-level: quality, continuity and depth of resources: and services and financial systems design and implementation.
expertise and competitiveness of fees.
Adetailed review was last Services which the external auditor may be permitted to carry out completed in 2008 and this will be considered again in 2013.
The include assurance services such as reporting accountant work and appointment of Senior Statutory Auditor is also rotated every five tax compliance services.
The Companys policy is not to use the years.
As Nigel Mercer was appointed to this role for the 2008 external auditor for acquisition and due diligence work.
However, audit, the next rotation is planned following the completion of the where the Group considers it appropriate or where conflicts arise, 2012 audit.
suppliers other than the preferred supplier may be asked to Directors Report 61 Directors Corporate Governance Statement tender.
This would only include the external auditor in unusual compliance: and exceptional circumstances.
operational: and Non-audit fees paid or due to the external auditor are other categories of risks including health, safety and regularly reviewed by the Committee and those paid in 2012 environmental risks.
areset out in note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
If fees for non-audit projects within the scope of permitted In addition the risks identified are plotted on risk maps and tax services are expected to exceed 250,000 in a particular year, both the self-assessments and the risk maps are reviewed by then the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman is required to preGroup Internal Audit and by senior management at review approve each project.
In any event, specific project approval is meetings held with each business.
The outcome from these required by the Committee Chairman for any such project where reviews is thendiscussed twice each year at meetings of the estimated fees exceed 100,000.
Pre-approval is required for Executive Management Committee, with the results being non-tax projects where fees are estimated to exceed 25,000. presented to the Audit and Risk Committee, which in turn These limits are also reviewed annually.
reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal Deloitte LLP have confirmed that all non-audit services they control on behalf of the Board.
The Audit and Risk Committee performed during the year were permitted by APB Ethical receives a report at least twice a year from the Group Finance Standards and do not impair their independence or objectivity.
Director detailing the key risks and the work undertaken in On the basis of their own review of the services performed, the managing the risks faced by the Group.
Based on this requirement of pre-approval and the auditors confirmation, the information the Board reviews the risks and confirms they are Committee is satisfied that the non-audit services currently satisfied that the risks are appropriately mitigated.
If this is not provided by Deloitte LLP do not impair their independence and the case they request that management take further action.
An organisational structure is in place at both head office b.
Systems of Internal Control anddivisional level which clearly defines responsibilities for Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control operational, accounting, taxation, treasury, legal, company and for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the directors.
Management is accountable to the directors for monitoring this system and for providing assurance to the directors that it has 3.
An internal audit function undertakes a programme of riskdone so.
The system of internal control is essentially an ongoing based reviews of controls and business processes.
The role of process embedded in the Groups businesses for identifying, internal audit is defined in a Group Internal Audit Charter and evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, this includes its terms of reference, the standards which it including social, environmental and ethical risks.
The Group adheres to, the scope and coverage of its work and its considers that it has adequate information to identify and assess reporting processes.
The Audit and Risk Committee receives a significant risks and opportunities affecting its long and shortreport from internal audit at each meeting which includes term value.
opinions on the adequacy and effectiveness of controls by This ongoing process has been in place for the year ended site, together with a summary of key issues, work schedules 31 December 2012 and up to 28 February 2013 and the directors and details of any action required.
In accordance with the UK can therefore confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness Corporate Governance Code, the Audit and Risk Committee in accordance with the internal control requirements of the Code monitors and reviews the effectiveness of internal audit using throughout that period.
outside specialists as well as self-assessment techniques.
The Groups internal system of control is reviewed annually by the directors and accords with the guidance issued by the 4.
A Group Finance Manual details accounting policies and Financial Reporting Council in October 2005: Internal Control: financial controls applicable to all reporting units.
The Group Revised Guidance for Directors on the Code known as the accounting policies are aligned with International Financial Turnbull guidance.
The system is designed to manage rather Reporting Standards.
Compliance with these policies is than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
reviewed as part of the internal audit process.
Itcan provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, to the extent that is appropriate, 5.
An annual budgeting exercise is carried out to set targets for taking account of costs and benefits.
each of the Groups reporting units.
The principal risks and uncertainties which the Group faces are summarised on page 17, together with a description of 6.
Detailed management accounts are submitted monthly to theirpotential impact and mitigations in place.
The main features management which measure actual performance against of the Groups internal control and risk management systems are budget and forecasts.
The monthly forecasts of sales, profits listed below.
and operating cash are updated on a quarterly basis.
A monthly report is provided to the Board, based on these 1.
The risks identified through a detailed written self-assessment management accounts, highlighting key issues and process carried out by division and by function are recorded summarising the detailed financial information provided by on arisk register together with the mitigations in place.
The integrity of management accounts covers arange of different types of risks, such as: with the underlying financial records is subject to review as business: part of the internal audit process.
financial: Directors Report 62 Directors Corporate Governance Statement 7.
Capital expenditure is controlled by means of budgets, Senior managers performance and related financial incentives authorisation levels requiring the approval of major projects are tied in part to their success against selected annual HSE by the Group directors and by post-investment appraisals.
Further details about HSE matters Thelessons learned from the post-investment appraisals are are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011- also shared with members of senior management.
2012 on the BBA Aviation website.
BBA Aviations Group Internal Audit team includes a number of questions on CSR 8.
Defined procedures are laid down for investments, currency matters in the annual Control Risk Assessment questionnaire and commodity hedging, granting of guarantees and use of which is completed by each of the operating businesses.
responses are reviewed and collated by Group Internal Audit and then discussed by the Groups CSR Steering Committee 9.
A detailed matrix defines the levels of authority for the Groups and used in the development of future CSR action plans.
senior executives and their direct reports in relation to acquisitions, capital expenditure, commercial and employee 11.
Shareholder Relations contracts and treasury matters.
This matrix is authorised by the The Board as a whole is routinely kept up to date on corporate Audit and Risk Committee on behalf of the Board and is governance developments and the views of BBA Aviations reviewed on an annual basis.
Compliance with the authority majorshareholders.
The executive directors undertake an annual matrix is reviewed as part of the internal audit process.
programme of meetings with banks, institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts to maintain a continuing dialogue 10.
All significant acquisitions and disposals of companies or with the Companys providers of finance.
The Board receives businesses are approved by the Board.
formal written reports from its brokers as well as reports from the executive directors regarding the views of shareholders following 11.
A Group policies manual sets out policies and procedures its preliminary and half yearly results announcements and at other concerning: business ethics, bribery and corruption, gifts and times as appropriate.
entertainments, equal opportunities and anti-harassment, All non-executive directors, including the Senior competition law, legal policy, data privacy, corporate social Independent Director, are available to meet with major responsibility, market disclosure and communications and shareholders.
As in previous years, the Chairman wrote to share dealing.
A review of compliance with such policies by major shareholders ahead of the 2012 AGM offering them the Group companies is carried out twice a year and senior opportunity to raise any issues or questions.
The Chairman of the executives are also required to confirm compliance with Remuneration Committee and the Chairman also maintain certain policies twice a year.
Group policies are complemented contact as required with major shareholders about directors by divisional and company-led initiatives and are remuneration matters.
The Board considers that its non-executive supplemented by the Groups Disclosure of Unethical Conduct directors, including its current Senior Independent Director, Nick Policy which includes a 24-hour hotline available to all Land, have a good level of understanding of the issues and employees.
This is supported by a formal investigation concerns of major shareholders, as required by the Code.
protocol and regular reporting to the Audit and Risk The Companys AGM is used as an opportunity to Committee as part of the twice yearly report on Business communicate with private investors.
It is intended that notice of Ethics and Compliance.
The Ethics Implementation Policy that the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 was introduced in 2011 seeks to codify the overarching working days before the meeting.
Michael Harper as Chairman of principles and processes that underlie the various elements the Board and the Nomination Committee, Nick Land as Chairman set out in more detail in the Code of Business Ethics and of the Audit and Risk Committee and Senior Independent Director, the policies on bribery and corruption and gifts and and Mark Harper as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee entertainments.
Compliance with all these policies and with and CSR Responsible Director will each be available to answer the Groups procedures concerning the appointment and questions, as appropriate, at the AGM.
Shareholders are given the remuneration of foreign agents is reviewed as part of opportunity of voting separately on each proposal.
The Company the ongoing BBA Aviation Internal Audit Programme.
The counts all proxy votes cast in respect of the AGM and makes effectiveness of these policies is assessed alongside the risk available the proxy voting figures for, against, at discretion and review process described in item 1 above.
vote withheld on each resolution.
The voting results of the AGM, together with the details of proxy votes cast prior to the 12.
A Group Safety Management System Manual details policies, meeting, are made available on request and on the Companys standards and procedures which are applicable throughout website.
The results of the AGM are announced to the market via the Group.
Annual self-assessment and or audits are carried a Regulatory News Service.
out at company level against these Group standards.
An Directors Corporate Governance Statement approved by executive summary Health, Safety and Environmental HSE the Board on 28 February 2013 and signed on its behalf by: report is tabled at each meeting of the Executive Management Committee.
The Board also receives a summary HSE report in Michael Harper addition to updates on HSE activities.
These reports cover all Chairman Group companies and are prepared by the internal Group HSE function.
Key HSE performance metrics are reviewed and verified annually by an independent third party organisation.
