Corporate Governance Chairmans foreword Board composition This year has seen the continued development of the Group During the year, the board comprised eight Directors: into a mature property investment business.
As explained Non-Executive Chairman, Richard Jewson: four Executive earlier, the acquisition of two income producing assets Directors: and three Non-Executive Directors.
The Board increased our portfolios leasable area by 25%, we progress considers all of the Non-Executive Directors to be our construction programme, organically growing our portfolio independent for the purposes of the Code as further by 50-100,000 sqm each year 4-8% of the current portfolio by explained below.
The Board consider the Chairman to be size.
Along with developments in UK Corporate Governance independent.
The balance of skills and expertise of the this has meant a busy year for your Board and its committees.
Board ensures that no individual or group of individuals We remain committed to the highest standards of governance dominate the Boards decision making, allowing for and this report sets out our approach.
independent challenge and rigour to the Boards deliberations.
The roles of the individual Directors are Richard Jewson explained further below.
10 March 2013 There is a defined division of the responsibilities between the The Financial Services Authoritys listing rules require the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Chairman is primarily Company to explain how it has applied the Main Principles of responsible for the effective working of the Board and the Section 1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Chief Executive for the operational management of the This report, together with the Directors and Remuneration business.
This includes development of the Group strategy Reports, set out how the Company has done so.
For the and business model, the presentation of this to the Board financial year ended 31 December 2012, the Company has and ultimately its implementation across the Group.
Terms of been regarded as a smaller company for the purposes of the reference delineating a clear division of responsibilities are in Code.
In the opinion of the Board, the Company has complied place and are reviewed on a regular basis.
fully with the Main and Supporting Principles of the Code throughout the financial year.
Copies of the Code can be Christopher Sherwell is the Senior Independent Director of obtained free of charge from the Financial Reporting Councils the Company.
David Moore is a consultant for the Bedell Group in Guernsey and is a former partner of Mourant Ozannes, The Role of the Board Advocates and Notaries Public.
The Group has used The Board is responsible for the governance processes within the Mourant Ozannes for legal engagements and Notary services Group whilst monitoring the performance of the Executives to but to avoid any possible conflict of interest or challenge to whom it delegates management responsibility for the Group.
The the independence of Mr Moore, the Group ceased using Board has approved a formal schedule of matters reserved solely Mourant Ozannes other than for notary services.
The Group for its consideration as outlined below and updates this schedule did not incur any fees due to Mourant Ozannes for the year as necessary.
Matters reserved for the board include: ended 31 December 2012.
The Board considers Mr Moore to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
Development of strategy: Capital structure and dividend policy: Biographies for each director are included elsewhere in this Financial reporting, including approval of results: Annual Report.
Internal control and risk management: Corporate governance: and The full Board meets at least six times a year to consider Material transactions.
general matters affecting the Company and otherwise as required.
Committee meetings comprising any two or more The Board has delegated a number of its responsibilities through Directors meet on an ad hoc basis to consider transactional its Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Terms of and related matters concerning the Companys business.
reference for each of these committees are reviewed periodically During 2012, there were 26 such committee meetings.
by the Board, and are made available on the Companys Meetings are generally held in Guernsey at the head office, website, www.
An outline of each of the however at least once a year the Board will hold a meeting in Committees functions and responsibilities is set out below.
Russia to review the Groups operations and meet local management.
16 Corporate Governance continued To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
On appointment, receive appropriate and timely information, including briefing a Director receives advice from the Companys financial and papers distributed in advance of any board meeting and other professional advisers as to the affairs of the Company regular management information.
All the Directors are and their responsibilities, an estimation of time commitments entitled to have access to independent professional advice at necessary to undertake the role and a commitment to the Companys expense where they deem it necessary to receive other such training as may be appropriate.
Attendance at Board or Committee meetings during the year to 31 December 2012 where N A is shown, the Director listed is not a member of the Committee Audit Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee R Jewson 8 8 N A 1 1 2 2 A Bilton 8 8 N A 1 1 N A G Hirsch 8 8 N A N A N A M Sinclair 8 8 N A N A N A C Smith 8 8 N A N A N A S Coe 7 8 4 4 N A 2 2 C Sherwell 8 8 4 4 1 1 2 2 1 D Moore 8 8 4 4 N A 0 0 Number of meetings during the year 8 4 1 2 1 David Moore joined the Remuneration Committee on 20 November 2012.
The Remuneration Committee did not meet between 20 November 2012 and 31 December 2012.
Board performance evaluation Board Committees The Board undertakes annual performance evaluations of its The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and own and its Committees activities.
These are led by the Nominations Committees.
These Committees undertake Chairman and where dealing with his own performance, by the specific activities through delegated authority from the Board.
Terms of reference for each Committee have been agreed and are reviewed on a regular basis by the Board.
The terms of The performance evaluations during 2012 were facilitated by reference for each Committee can be obtained from the the Institute of Directors and took the form of a questionnaire Companys website.
The findings of the report were discussed in detail by the Board and it was concluded that the Audit Committee performance of the Board, its Committees and individual The Audit Committee comprises David Moore, Christopher Directors were effective and the Board had the necessary Sherwell and Stephen Coe, Chairman, who is considered to balance of skills and expertise required to direct the business.
have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee meets at least twice a year.
There are a number of regular The Board and Nominations Committee annually consider the attendees at meetings of the Audit Committee, including other composition of the Board and its Committees with reference to members of the Board, senior management and the Groups the Groups needs and also the requirements of the Code.
The Chairman of the Committee also meets accordance with the Code, all Directors will be put forward for with external auditors without management present.
re-election each year at the Annual General Meeting.
Having considered the balance of skills, expertise and performance of The Committee is responsible for ensuring that the financial the Board, its committees and individual Directors, the Board performance of the Group is properly reported and monitored.
recommends each of the Directors for re-appointment at the The Committee reviews the annual and interim accounts, the Annual General Meeting.
accounting policies of the Group and key areas of accounting judgement, management information statements, financial 17 Corporate Governance continued announcements, internal control systems, risk management, its terms of reference, a rigorous and thorough evaluation will and the continuing appointment of the auditors.
It also be undertaken by the Committee in assessing the requirements monitors whistle blowing policy and procedures over fraud and of the Group so that the individual or individuals appointed will bribery.
add value to the on going activities of the business.
Due to its size, structure and the nature of its activities, the Remuneration Committee Group does not have an internal audit function.
During the The Remuneration Committee comprises Stephen Coe, year, the Audit Committee again considered the need for an Richard Jewson, David Moore and Christopher Sherwell, who internal audit function, whether a bespoke function facilitated is Chairman.
The Remuneration Committee meet at least once by internal resources, or using an outsourced model with the a year to review the performance of Executive Directors and to assistance of the Groups advisors.
The Committee concluded recommend their remuneration and other benefit packages.
that there was no need for a separate internal audit function at The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the this time but would continue to keep this matter under review.
Full details of the activities undertaken by the Committee during the year are included within the During the year, the Committee has considered the Remuneration Report.
This Report will be subject to an appointment, compensation, performance and independence advisory vote at the Annual General Meeting.
of the Groups auditor, Ernst & Young LLP.
Ernst & Young LLP may also provide non-audit services to the Internal Control and Risk Management Group where they are determined to be best placed to provide The Board has overall responsibility for the systems of internal the particular service and there is a commercial advantage to control and for reviewing their effectiveness throughout the the Group in Ernst & Young LLP providing the service.
This is an on going process, in accordance with the non-audit services provided are typically assurance related guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal controls, that services, tax advisory or transaction advisory services.
The identifies, evaluates and manages the principal risks and policy for the provision of non-audit services is reviewed and uncertainties that may affect the achievement of the Groups confirmed by the Committee annually.
As shown in note 6 b to strategic objectives.
Such a system is designed to manage or the financial statements, total fees payable to Ernst & Young reduce the effects of the possible risks to which the Groups LLP in the year to 31 December 2012 amounted to $2 million, activities are subject, rather than providing absolute assurance of which $866,000 was for non-audit services.
This included against material misstatement or loss.
$705,000 for transactional advisory services in connection with the acquisitions and preference share placing where it was Consideration of risks and risk management form an integral considered that the provision of these services by Ernst & part of the Board deliberations and are key to its decision Young LLP provided the Group with a commercial advantage.
There are risks which your Board have no control over.
These are mainly overriding external risks such as Ernst & Young LLP has provided the Committee with written the wider economic environment, however the impact of such confirmation of their independence.
The Committee has risks and effect that they have on the Group are considered recommended a resolution for their re-appointment to be and mitigated to the extent possible.
The strategic decisions of proposed to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
the Group are adjusted to address these issues ensuring that threats are reduced and opportunities are exploited.
Nominations Committee Key features of the risk management process in place during The Nominations Committee comprises Anton Bilton, the year and up to the date of the annual report and financial Christopher Sherwell and Richard Jewson, who is Chairman.
statements include: The Committee undertakes an annual review of any succession planning and ensures that the membership and composition of A comprehensive system of reporting and business the Board and its Committees are constituted appropriately in planning: light of the requirements of the Group and those of the Code, A defined schedule of matters reserved for the Board: with the necessary balance of skills and expertise to undertake An organisational structure chart with clearly defined levels their roles effectively.
of authority and division of responsibilities: Formal documented policies and procedures throughout Should the Committee consider it necessary to either refresh or the Group: enlarge the Board or its Committees, acting in accordance with 18 Heading Cor Heading porate Go continued vernance continued The close involvement of the Executive Directors and will require Main Market listed businesses to report on levels of senior management in all aspects of the day-to-day greenhouse gas emissions and the Group will work with its operations, including regular meetings to review all advisers to collate the necessary data to report in its 2013 operational aspects of the business and risk management Annual Report and Accounts.
systems: The Boards review of Group strategy and progress Your Board also recognises the social impact of its operations against objectives throughout the year: in each of its key jurisdictions, Russia, Guernsey and Cyprus.
A formal whistle blowing policy: In Russia, this is particularly evident in the employment A comprehensive and robust system of financial reporting opportunities that are created in the communities where the which includes regular management information, such as Groups properties are located but in each jurisdiction staff are budgets, re-forecasts, cash flows, treasury reporting and encouraged to participate in community activities and the management accounts: and Board has established a fund to support local causes or A regular assessment of risks within the business at all charities, which meet the corporate values of the Group.
Investor relations The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the The Chief Executive, Executive Deputy Chairman and Chief systems of internal control and has reported its findings to the Financial Officer are the Companys points of contact for Board throughout the year and up to the date of the annual investors, fund managers, analysts, the press and other report and financial statements.
The Risk Committee as further interested parties.
The Companys investor relations defined below report regularly to the Audit Committee on its programme includes formal presentations of the annual and deliberations and findings.
The risks and uncertainties to which interim results, as well and regular analyst briefings and the Group is subject are reviewed and considered by the Audit meetings.
Committee and the Board at regular intervals, particularly with reference to the strategic objectives of the business.
The Board receives updates on the Companys investor relations activities including any reports prepared by the The Audit Committee has established a Risk Committee to Companys brokers, external analyst papers, and details of any carry out the review and assessment of risks associated with shareholder meetings.
This Committee comprises Executive Directors and senior management involved in each operating jurisdiction The Board believes that sustainable financial performance and and department of the Group.
This engenders a culture of risk delivering on the objectives of the Company are key measures assessment within the Group and reinforces the strategic in building trust with the Companys shareholders.
To promote objectives communicated by the Board.
During the year ended a clear understanding of the Company, its objectives and 2012, the Risk Committees met four times.
financial results, the Board ensures that information relating to the Company is disclosed in a timely manner and in a format Corporate responsibility suitable to the shareholders of the Company.
The Companys website has been developed to facilitate communication with Corporate responsibility covers many different aspects of all shareholders.
Communication through these means allow business but our primary focus is on the environmental impact our investors to receive information in a timely and cost of our activities and properties and the social impact in the effective manner.
jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
It is the responsibility of the Companys Board of directors to manage the The notice of AGM accompanies this report and a separate environmental, economic and social impact of the Groups proxy card is provided for shareholders.
Signed for and on behalf of the Board The Board recognises that the way its investment properties are designed, built, managed and occupied can significantly Colin Smith influence their impact on the environment and the community Director in which they are located and it seeks to manage these issues.
10 March 2013 Your Board notes that from 2013 the London Stock Exchange 19
