Corporate Governance report The Board is responsible to shareholders for the management Governance structure and control of the Companys activities and is committed to the The Groups corporate governance framework is set out below.
highest standards of Corporate Governance, as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Code may The Directors receive management information, including financial, be reviewed on the website of the Financial Reporting Council operating and strategic reports, in advance of Board meetings.
It is the Boards view that the Company was The Board receives presentations from the Heads of the Principal fully compliant with the provisions of the Code during the year.
Businesses and Functions on matters of significance and periodically meetings are held in regional centres to give the Board The following section together with Other Statutory Information greater insight into the business in that region.
The Group Legal on pages 43 and 44 and the Remuneration report on pages 45 Director & Company Secretary provides the Board with ongoing to 57 provides details of how the Company applies the principles reports that cover legal developments and regulatory changes.
and complies with the provisions of the Code.
Board Non-Executive Chairman, 2 Executive and 4 Non-Executive Directors Audit Remuneration Nominations Group Chief Committee Committee Committee Executive Group Group Risk Committee Executive Board CR Steering Group The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision making, although its primary role is to provide leadership and to review the overall strategic development of the Group as a whole.
In addition, the Board sets the Groups values and standards and ensures that the Groups businesses act ethically and that its obligations to its shareholders are understood and met.
The Board delegates to management the day to day operation of the business, subject to appropriate risk parameters.
The Board is specifically responsible for: Strategy Approving Group strategy and the Groups budgetary and business plans Approving significant investments, any decision to divest or close any Group business and capital expenditure Risk management Establishing the Groups risk appetite, system of internal control, governance and approval authorities Governance Approving executive performance and succession planning, including the appointment of new Directors Approving the Groups Code of Conduct Determining the standards of ethics and policy in relation to business practice, health, safety, environment, social and community responsibilities Financial performance Reviewing performance, assessed against the Groups strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets Reviewing changes to the Groups capital structure and the issue of any securities Approving annual and half year results and interim management statements, accounting policies and, subject to shareholder approval, the appointment and the remuneration of the external auditors Approving the dividend policy and interim and supplemental dividends and recommending final dividends 36 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results At its meetings during the year, the Board discharged the The Group Legal Director & Company Secretary, whose duties above and received updates on the following: financial appointment is a matter reserved for the Board, is responsible performance: key management changes: material new projects: for advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board on financial plans: legal and regulatory updates and in particular: company law and corporate governance matters and for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, as well as ensuring reviewed the strategies and policies being pursued to that there is a smooth flow of information to enable effective mitigate risks and reconfirmed the Groups risk appetite decision making.
All the Directors have access to the advice and at a workshop facilitated by the Group Risk Director and services of the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary and  for this purpose : and through him have access to independent professional advice in reviewed the Groups Investor Relations Strategy to ensure respect of their duties at the Companys expense.
that this best communicated the Groups strategy and potential to investors and prospective investors.
The Board has delegated authority to certain committees to carry out specified objectives as defined by their terms of One of the Boards meetings during the year was specifically reference, which are available on request or on the Companys devoted to the review and reconfirmation of the Groups strategy.
The principal Committees and This meeting benefited from presentations from the Heads of the membership of each Committee are detailed on pages 39 to 41.
Principal Businesses on the proposed strategy of the businesses.
As the meeting was held in Asia, the heads of the Groups Asian Board composition and balance Businesses also presented equivalent updates.
The delivery of Board membership evolved during the year, with Tim Freshwater strategic plans is continually monitored and reviewed by the Board with effect from 1 January 2012 and Clare Hollingsworth and periodic updates on progress and market developments are witheffect from 2 April 2012 joining the Board as additional new presented by the Heads of the Principal Businesses.
Independent Non-Executive Directors, and Timothy Ingram, previously Senior Independent Director, retiring from the Board As well as planned briefings, Board members are also expected atthe conclusion of the 2012 Annual General Meeting on 9 May.
to take responsibility for identifying their own individual needs and to take appropriate steps to ensure that they are properly informed Notwithstanding these changes, at all times during the year at about the Group and their responsibilities as Directors.
least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, were Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Directors attendance at scheduled Board meetings convened in the year ended 31 December 2012 was as follows: The posts of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are distinct and separate.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures the effective Number engagement and contribution of all Executive and Non-Executive of meetings Number Directors.
The Group Chief Executive has responsibility for all possible whilst a of meetings Group businesses and acts in accordance with the authority Board member attended delegated by the Board.
There are a number of areas where the Non-Executive Directors Board has delegated specific responsibility to management, Peter Smith 6 6 including responsibility for the operational management of the Martin Angle 6 5 Groups businesses as well as reviewing strategic issues and risk Tim Freshwater 6 6 matters in advance of these being considered by the Board and or its Committees.
Clare Hollingsworth 4 4 Timothy Ingram 3 3 Accordingly, the Board considers that throughout the year the Charles McVeigh 6 5 Company was in full compliance with the Code.
Executive Directors Jeremy Helsby 6 6 In this regard, the Board considers Martin Angle, Tim Freshwater, Clare Hollingsworth and Charles McVeigh to be Independent Simon Shaw 6 6 Non-Executive Directors, as they are independent of management Members of the Group Executive Board and have no business or other relationship which could interfere materially with the exercise of their judgement.
In particular, and The Board and Committee meetings are structured to allow open notwithstanding his long service on the Board, the Board discussion.
All Directors receive detailed papers in advance of continues to consider that Charles McVeigh remains entirely Board meetings.
When unable to be present in person, Directors independent in character and judgement.
As a result of having may attend by audio or video conference.
When Directors are served on the Board for over nine years, Charles McVeigh is no not able to attend Board or Committee meetings, their comments longer a member of any of the Boards Committees.
Following on the papers to be considered at that meeting are relayed in Timothy Ingrams retirement as a Non-Executive Director at the advance to the Chairman of that meeting.
conclusion of the AGM on 9 May 2012, Martin Angle became Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Director The Non-Executive Directors meet separately at least twice each is available to shareholders if they have concerns which have year without the presence of the Executive Directors and also not been addressed by contact with the Chairman and or Group meet at least once a year without the Chairman, at which Chief Executive.
time the Chairmans performance is appraised.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 37 Corporate Governance report continued The biographies of the Board members appear on page 34.
On completion of the annual review process, Lintstock presented a report considering the key themes and issues raised and Balance of Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors formulated a number of recommendations to further enhance Board effectiveness.
It was observed that Board performance had further improved through 2012 and that the issues indentified in the previous review had been addressed satisfactorily.
The Non-Executive Chairman 1 review confirmed that the Boards major priorities for 2013 were Non-Executive Directors 4 continuing to progress the Groups strategic agenda, gaining a Executive Directors 2 better understanding of Group client service levels and ensuring that performance relative to peers was kept under review.
A performance assessment of the Non-Executive Directors and the Group Chief Executive was undertaken by the Chairman Length of Tenure of Non-Executive Directors during the year.
In addition, the Group Chief Executive conducted a performance review of the Group Chief Financial Officer, and the Senior Independent Director led a review of the Chairmans performance, with input from all Directors.
0-3 years 2 4-6 years 1 The individual assessments of each Director confirmed that 7-9 years 1 performance was effective and that each Director continued to More than 9 years 1 demonstrate commitment to the role.
The Board subsequently endorsed these assessments and confirmed that the contributions made by each Director, each of whom, in accordance with the Code, offers themselves for re-election at the AGM on 8 May Board induction and training 2013, continued to be effective and that each Director continued An induction programme is provided for each new Director which to demonstrate commitment to the role and that the Company introduces the Groups business, its operations, strategic plans, should therefore support their re-election.
The details of the key risks and its governance arrangements, and includes one to Directors, are set out on page 34. one briefings from the Heads of the Principal Businesses and an introduction to each Group business development strategy.
Directors Conflicts of Interest Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they Ongoing training courses are available and Directors also receive have, or could have, an interest that conflicts or possibly may regular updates on developments in legislative and regulatory conflict with the interests of the Company.
A Director will not be matters.
in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has been authorised by the other Directors in accordance with the Articles of Board performance and evaluation Association Articles.
The Board has adopted a set of guiding In 2010, the Board engaged Lintstock Limited Lintstock on principles on managing conflicts and approved a process for a three year appointment to undertake an annual independent identifying current and future actual and potential conflicts of evaluation of Board and Board Committee performance and interest.
It was also agreed that the Nominations Committee would to identify areas where performance and procedures might be review authorised conflicts at least annually or if and when a new further improved.
Lintstocks evaluation considers: potential conflict situation was identified or a potential conflict situation materialised.
During 2012, actual and potential conflicts Board composition, expertise and dynamics: of interest that were identified by each Director were subsequently Board support, time management and Board Committee authorised by the Nominations Committee, subject to appropriate performance: conditions in accordance with the guiding principles.
strategic, operational and risk oversight, in particular following the restructuring of the Board in 2010, succession planning and human resource management: and priorities for change.
Lintstock engaged with the Chairman and the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary to set the context for the annual Board review and to tailor the heads of enquiry to the specific circumstances of Savills.
The content was designed to build upon the learning gained in the previous reviews to ensure that the agreed recommendations had been implemented and to measure progress year on year.
The members of the Board were then requested to complete an online questionnaire considering the performance of the Board, the Committees and the Chairman.
38 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results Board Committees The Board endorses the aims of Lord Daviess review entitled The principal Committees of the Board are as follows: Women on Boards and when considering future appointments will, with the support of the Nominations Committee, base such Nominations Committee appointments on merit, against an objective criteria and with due The Board has delegated to the Nominations Committee regard for the benefits of diversity including gender diversity.
responsibility for reviewing and progressing appointments to the These principles were applied to the search that the Committee Board and Board composition.
During the year, the Committee commissioned Spencer Stuart to undertake during 2011 for two comprised the Independent Non-Executive Directors, together new additional Independent Non-Executive Directors.
One of the with the Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
Charles McVeigh two additional Independent Non-Executive Directors appointed ceased to be a member of the Committee on 1 January 2012. is female: the other is based in Asia.
Onhis retirement effective 9 May 2012, Timothy Ingram ceased to be a member of the Committee.
The Committee is chaired by the Audit Committee Group Chairman, Peter Smith save in circumstances where the The Audit Committee comprises the Independent Non-Executive Chairmans succession is considered.
The Committee meets at Directors excluding Charles McVeigh who having already served least once a year and met twice during 2012. three terms of three years, retired as a member of the Committee with effect from 1 January 2012 in accordance with the Financial Number of possible Actual Reporting Council FRC Guidance on Audit Committees and is meetings attended meetings attended chaired by Martin Angle.
Onhis retirement effective 9 May 2012, Non-Executive Directors Timothy Ingram ceased to be a member of the Committee.
The Committee meets at least three times a year and met four times Peter Smith 2 2 during 2012.
Martin Angle 2 2 Tim Freshwater 2 2 Number of possible Actual meetings attended meetings attended Clare Hollingsworth joined effective 2 April 2012 11 Martin Angle 4 4 Timothy Ingram Tim Freshwater 4 4 retired effective 9 May 2012 11 Clare Hollingsworth Executive Directors joined effective 2 April 2012 32 Jeremy Helsby 2 2 Timothy Ingram retired effective 9 May 2012 11 The Committees activities during the year included: The meetings are also attended by the Non-Executive Chairman, reviewing leadership needs of the organisation with a Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, Group view to ensuring the continued ability to compete effectively Financial Controller, representatives from the internal and the in the marketplace: external auditors, Group Director of Risk Management and Internal approving the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director: Audit, Group Legal Director & Company Secretary and other considering the proposed re-appointment of the senior executives of the Group by invitation.
Martin Angle has Non-Executive Directors, before making a recommendation recent and relevant financial experience and the Board considers to the Board regarding their re-election: and that the members of the Audit Committee collectively have considering and approving the Directors potential Conflict sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to carry out the of Interests.
The Committee provides a forum to consider Board succession The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility planning and to make recommendations to the Board on specified for overseeing financial reporting, internal risk management and matters including its composition, structure, size and balance: control functions and for making recommendations to the Board in assist the Board in the formal selection and appointment of relation to the appointment of the Companys internal and external directors Executive and Non-Executive having regard to the auditors.
The Committee is authorised to investigate any matter overall balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on within its terms of reference and, where necessary, to obtain the Board: review membership and chairmanship of Group Board external legal or other independent professional advice.
Committees: and consider succession planning for the Chairman and the Executive and Non-Executive Directors, taking into account the skills and expertise which will be needed on the Board in the future.
No Director is involved in decisions regarding his or her own succession.
The Articles provide that Directors must submit themselves for re-election every three years and that newly appointed Directors must submit themselves for re-appointment at the first AGM after their appointment.
Notwithstanding the requirements provided by the Articles, the Board has resolved, consistent with the recommendations of the Code, that all Directors should stand for annual re-election.
In making recommendations to shareholders for the re-appointment re-election of any Director, the Nominations Committee considers the Directors performance and their ongoing contribution to the success of the Company and makes its relevant recommendation to the Board.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 39 Corporate Governance report continued The Audit Committees principal activities during the year internal audit outsourcing services have included: management functions or human resources: or advising on senior executive including Executive Director reviewing the half year and annual financial statements with remuneration.
particular reference to accounting policies, together with significant estimates and financial reporting judgements The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with and the disclosures made therein: theauditors is working well and remains satisfied with their monitoring the financial reporting process: effectiveness and continued independence.
The Companys reviewing management representations made to the external audit was last tendered in 2000 and resulted in a external auditors: changeof external auditors to the current external auditors, reviewing the Groups procedures to ensure that all relevant  LLP.
The external auditors are required information is disclosed: to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every discussing any issues arising out of the half year review or five years and the last partner change was in 2011.
The Committee the full year audit with the external auditors in the absence has noted the revisions to the Code introduced by the FRC in of management where appropriate : September 2012 and, in particular, the recommendation that the making recommendations to the Board with regard to external audit is put out to tender at least every 10 years.
The FRC continuing the appointment and remuneration of the has proposed non-binding transitional arrangements with respect external auditors: to audit tendering, including a suggestion that tendering should overseeing the Groups relations with the external auditors normally fit the five yearly cycle of partner rotation.
Consequently, and the effectiveness of the audit process: the Committee will consider its tendering arrangements towards reviewing and assessing the effectiveness of the Groups the conclusion of the current audit partners period in office or internal financial controls and their application: earlier if it has cause to do so.
There are no contractual obligations monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
The Auditors function, reviewing all reports prepared by the internal auditors report appears on page 59. and assessing managements responses to such reports: and reviewing and assessing the effectiveness of the Groups The provision of internal audit services during 2012 was internal control and risk management systems see pages 31 jointly delivered by the Groups internal audit team and a panel to 33. arrangement with BDO LLP and Grant Thornton LLP.
The Boards responsibility for internal control and risk is detailed on pages 41 During the last 12 months, the Committee sponsored a risk and 42. workshop to confirm the Groups key risks and its risk appetite, reviewed the controls in each business with the Heads of the Remuneration Committee Principal Businesses and oversaw a Pan-European client monies The Remuneration Committee comprises the Independent control review.
Non-Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Chairman, and was chaired by Charles McVeigh until he ceased to be a member To enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively, of the Committee on 2 April 2012.
With effect from 2 April 2012 the Committee relies on information and support from the Committee was chaired by Clare Hollingsworth following her management across the business.
appointment as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
On his retirement effective 9 May 2012, Timothy Ingram The Committee also considers on an ongoing basis the ceased to be a member of the Committee.
The Group Legal independence of the external auditors and has established Director & Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
policies to consider the appropriateness or otherwise of The Committee meets at least three times a year and met four appointing the external auditors to perform non-audit services, times in 2012. including consideration as to whether the external auditors are the most suitable supplier of such services.
Number of possible Actual meetings attended meetings attended Clare Hollingsworth As detailed on page 44 the external auditors are joined effective 2 April 2012 22  LLP fees included at Note 6 c to Martin Angle 4 3 the financial statements.
The external auditors are responsible for the annual audit and have also provided certain non-audit Tim Freshwater 4 4 services to the Company, principally advice on taxation matters.
Timothy Ingram The approval of the Committee is required prior to awarding retired effective 9 May 2012 22 contracts to the external auditors for non-audit services with a Charles McVeigh value in excess of 100,000.
Below this level the Chairman of the ceased to be a member 2 April 2012 22 Audit Committee is kept appraised of new instructions given to the Peter Smith 4 4 external auditors for the delivery of non-audit services.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that such work was best undertaken by The Committees principal responsibilities are to determine  LLP and the objectivity of the external Company policy on senior executive remuneration and to agree auditors has not been impaired by reason of this further work.
the remuneration arrangements of the Executive Directors and The Group may not engage the external auditors to provide any members of the Group Executive Board.
The Committee of the non-audit services described below: excluding the Non-Executive Chairman also determines the level of fees payable to the Non-Executive Chairman.
bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records or financial statements: financial information systems design and implementation: 40 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results In addition to the above responsibilities, during 2012 the published on the Companys website.
The Directors aim to Committee reviewed the Groups remuneration policy in the light give as much notice of the AGM as possible, which is at of the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills consultation least 21 clear days, as required by the Articles.
In accordance in relation to Directors pay to ensure that the policy remained with the Articles, electronic and paper proxy appointments and appropriate.
Towers Watson, the Groups external advisor, voting instructions must be received not later than 48 hours continued to provide independent commentary on matters before a general meeting.
under consideration by the Committee and updates on market developments, legislative requirements and best practice.
The Company has taken advantage of the provisions within The Committee is also advised by the Group Legal Director & the Companies Act 2006 which allow communications with Company Secretary.
shareholders to be made electronically where shareholders have not requested hard copy documentation.
Details of the information Given the central part that remuneration plays in the success of available to shareholders can be found on page 112.
Information the Group, in terms of the recruitment, motivation and retention about the Company is also available on the Companys website of high quality staff, the Group Chief Executive is consulted on www.
the remuneration package of the Group Chief Financial Officer and attends Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee Internal control and risk management reviews the remuneration of the other members of the Group The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and Executive Board.
maintaining the Groups system of risk management and internal control to safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups The Committee does not deal with the fees paid to the Nonassets and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
However, Executive Directors, which are decided by the Executive Directors such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk and the Chair except when her own fee is being discussed.
of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material The Report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages misstatement or loss.
The Remuneration report will be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM on 8 May 2013.
Key elements of the Groups system of risk management and internal control are: Group Executive Board GEB The GEB comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief a comprehensive system for planning and reporting the Financial Officer, the Heads of the Principal Businesses and the performance of each operating subsidiary.
The GEB and the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary.
Under the leadership Board meet regularly and review the Groups results against of the Group Chief Executive, the GEB is responsible for plan and the previous year.
The Group regularly reviews overseeing the development and implementation of strategy, the performance forecasts.
Clear responsibilities are given to operational performance of the Group and other specific matters operational and financial managers for the maintenance of delegated to it by the Board.
effective financial controls and the production of accurate andtimely management information: An explanation of how the Group creates and preserves value, the regular review and assessment of the performance of and the strategy for delivering its objectives is included in the the business including in relation to risk management and Group Chief Executives review on pages 14 to 22. internal control by the Board and its sub-committees, including the GEB: Members of the GEB are detailed on page 35. attendance at principal subsidiary boards by the Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer.
These boards Relations with shareholders and their associated committees also meet regularly and have The Group recognises the importance of maintaining regular formal reporting structures.
Directors of operating subsidiaries dialogue with its shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive and are also closely involved in the day to day business of their Group Chief Financial Officer have a regular programme of respective operations and are tasked with identifying risks meetings and presentations with analysts and investors, including and ensuring that appropriate action is taken to mitigate and manage these: presentations following the publication of the Companys full and a Group Risk Management Policy which sets out the process half year results.
This programme maintains an ongoing two-way for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks to the dialogue between the Company and shareholders, and helps to Groups business objectives, supported by an appropriate ensure that the Board is aware of shareholders views on a timely organisational structure and clearly defined management basis.
The Board also receives feedback at least twice each responsibilities: year from its corporate brokers on investors and the markets a Group Risk Committee which reports to the Audit perceptions of the Company.
The Chairman and the Senior Committee and is tasked with the review, discussion and Independent Director are also available to shareholders.
challenge of risks reported, the ongoing Group wide development of internal controls and the monitoring of internal The AGM provides the Board with a valuable opportunity to audits and other sources of assurance on the effectiveness communicate with private shareholders and is generally attended of internal controls.
The Committee is chaired by the Group by all of the Directors.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to Chief Financial Officer and consists of senior managers ask questions during the meeting and to meet Directors following the conclusion of the formal part of the meeting.
In accordance from the Principal Businesses and Group Function heads with the Code, the level and manner of voting of proxies lodged including the Group Director of Risk Management and Internal on each resolution at the AGM is declared at the meeting and Audit, Group Legal Director & Company Secretary and Group IT Director: Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 41 Corporate Governance report continued a programme of assurance activities which assesses the Whistle-blowing effectiveness of the Groups internal controls in respect of The Group encourages staff to report any concerns which they risks which includes: feel need to be brought to the attention of management.
Whistleblowing procedures, which are published on the Groups intranet t B QSPHSBNNF PG JOUFSOBM BVEJUT VOEFSUBLFO JO site, are available to staff who are concerned about possible accordance with an annual risk based plan approved impropriety, financial or otherwise, and who may wish to ensure by the Audit Committee.
The plan is designed to ensure that action is taken without fear of victimisation or reprisal.
that internal audit reviews are focused on priority controls across the Group to provide both independent review Going concern and challenge on the effectiveness of these controls, The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to and the promotion of good practice and consistency affect its future development, performance and position are set in their development: out in the Group Chief Executives review on pages 14 to 22. t DPNQMJBODF QSPHSBNNFT XJUIJO UIF SPVQ T SFHVMBUFE The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position businesses in support of the Groups commitment to and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on conduct its business responsibly and in accordance pages 24 and 26.
In addition, Note 3 to the financial statements with all laws and regulations to which its business includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for activities are subject: and managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, t BO BOOVBM TFMG BTTFTTNFOU BOE DFSUJGJDBUJPO CZ details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its management of the existence and effectiveness of exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
the key controls within each of the Groups operating subsidiaries.
The results are collated for review and The Group has considerable financial resources, including challenge by the Group Risk Committee and onward a 65m committed revolving credit facility that runs to 31 March reporting to the GEB and Audit Committee.
2014, together with a broad spread of businesses across different geographic areas and sectors.
As a consequence, the Directors The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed the believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
In performing its review of effectiveness, the Audit Committee considered the following reports and activities: After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate internal audit reports on the review of the controls across resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable theGroup and the monitoring of management actions arising future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern from these reviews: basis in preparing the Report and Accounts.
managements own assessment of the performance of the system of risk management and internal control during 2012: On behalf of the Board invitation of the Heads of the Principal Businesses and the Chief Financial Officers of those businesses to present on Peter Smith the operation of the system of risk management and internal Chairman control within their businesses: reports from the Group Director of Risk Management & 13 March 2013 Internal Audit including reporting on Group wide risk assessment activity and annual self assessment findings: and reports from the external auditors on any issues identified during the course of their work.
The Board, having reviewed the effectiveness of the system ofinternal control, can confirm that necessary actions have been, or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified.
42 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012
