67 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Report Bill Shannon, Chairman non-executive director, who joins us ChairManS ovErviEw following acareer in the UK retail property As a Board, we are responsible for the sector spanning 27 years.
In September stewardship of the business and are 2012 Icommissioned an independent committed to maintaining high standards external review of the effectiveness of the ofcorporate governance across the Group.
Board and its Committees, which was We believe good governance enhances conducted between October and business performance as well as our December.
The review was designed to reputation within our marketplace and encourage the directors to step back from across relationships with our stakeholders.
the normal business of the Board and provide them with an opportunity to Our approach to governance is outlined in question the Boards approach, assess its the following report, which describes how impact and contribution and consider how we integrate into our business the main best it can develop.
The results of this principles of the five sections of the UK review are being analysed as this report is Corporate Governance Code the Code, finalised and therefore an update on the namely leadership, effectiveness, results of this assessment will be disclosed accountability, remuneration and relations in next years report.
I am pleased to report that, following a change to membership of In my second year as Chairman I am the Audit and Remuneration Committees pleased with the progress that has been during 2012, the Company now complies made in respect of our approach to in full with the Code.
governance and I expect that this will continue to develop and strengthen In line with the development of our during2013.
business, our governance framework is kept under close review in order to ensure that shareholders interests are safeguarded and to sustain the success ofthe Company over the longer term.
Asreported in my Chairmans statement Bill Shannon onpage 19, we have deepened further the Chairman property expertise onthe Board by the appointment of Kay Chaldecott as a Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 68 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Report continued lEaDErShip Allocation of time spent at What is the Boards role?
Board meetings in 2011 2012 Q: % The Boards role is to provide leadership of the Company and direction for A: management.
It is collectively responsible and accountable to shareholders for the 10 long-term success of the Company.
It sets the strategy and reviews performance, ensuring that only acceptable risks are taken and the appropriate resources are in 30 place todeliver the strategy.
30 What responsibilities does the Board have?
Q: A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for Board approval has A: 30 beenadopted by the Board.
Principal matters reserved for authorisation by theBoard include: Strategy long-term strategy, both commercial and financial: Operations Finance & risk annual operating and capital budgets: Governance major pr operty acquisitions anddisposals: risk management and inter final control: dividend policy: matters r elating to the capital structure of the Company: and the appointment of directors.
The Board delegates responsibility for overseeing the implementation of strategy and policies to the executive directors.
It also delegates certain responsibilities to anumber of Board Committees.
How does the Board carry out its responsibilities?
Q: The Board discharges its responsibilities through an annual programme of Board A: and Committee meetings.
Directors attendance at meetings held in the year is setout on page 70.
At least one meeting is combined with a Board visit to sites within the Companys property portfolio: in 2012 the Board visited the Trentham Estate, Phoenix Business Park and the Hednesford Town Centre development.
During the year the Board approved an annual agenda plan to ensure that all necessary matters are reserved for Board decision and are afforded adequate timefor discussion.
What is the Chairmans role?
Q: As Chairman, Bill Shannons role is to lead the Board.
He is responsible for ensuring A: both an effective Board and effective contribution from the directors based on a culture of openness, debate and constructive challenge.
In particular, the Chairman: chairs the Boar d meetings, sets the agenda and ensures that information packs containing comprehensive briefing papers are distributed to the Board sufficiently in advance of each Board meeting: takes the lead in pr oviding a comprehensive, formal and tailored induction programme for new directors and regularly reviewing and agreeing with each director any training and development needs: leads on Boar d performance evaluation, including the evaluation of the directors individually and the Board Committees: maintains an ef fective working relationship with the Chief Executive by providing support and advice: ensur es effective communication with shareholders: and as Chairman of the Nomination Committee, initiates change and plans succession in relation to Board appointments other than in relation to the appointment of a successor as Chairman.
69 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Does the Chairman hold any other appointments?
Q: Yes, Bill Shannon is currently a non-executive director of Johnson Service Group A: plc, a FTSE AIM listed company.
What is the Chief Executives role?
Q: Bill Oliver has day to day management responsibility for the Group and for the A: implementation of strategy and policies approved by the Board.
In particular he: develops and pr esents to the Board the long-term commercial and financial strategy of the Company: r ecommends to the Board annual operating and capital budgets: appr oves property acquisitions and disposals in accordance with authority levels delegated by the Board: r eviews and reports to the Board on operational performance: and pr ovides input to the Remuneration Committee on the policy for the remuneration of the executive directors.
In carrying out his responsibilities, the Chief Executive is assisted by Michael Dunn, Group Finance Director, and Steve Burke, Construction Director.
What are the Committees of the Board and what do they do?
Q: Subject to those matters reserved for its decision, the Board delegates certain A: responsibilities to a number of standing Committees: Committee Role Audit Committee Monitors the integrity of the financial comprising independent reporting and audit processes, reviews non-executive directors external valuations of the property portfolio and assesses the Companys risk management and internal control systems.
a report on its activities during the year is given on pages 76 to 78.
Nomination Committee recommends Board and Board comprising the Chairman and Committee appointments which ensure independent non-executive an appropriate mix of skills and directors experience and reviews succession planning against the leadership needs of the Group.
a report on its activities during the year is given on pages 79 and 80.
Remuneration Committee Determines and agrees with the Board comprising independent the Groups general policy on executive non-executive directors and senior management remuneration and designs the Companys share incentive schemes.
the Directors remuneration report is set out on pages 81 to 94.
Membership of the Committees is set out on pages 64 and 65.
Each Committee has written terms of reference which have been approved by the Board and are reviewed periodically to ensure that they continue to comply with the latest legal and regulatory requirements and best practice guidance.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 70 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Report continued lEaDErShip ContinuED How many Board and Committee meetings did directors attend in Q: 2011 12?
Details of Board and Committee attendances by all directors who held office during A: 1 the year are set out below : Audit Remuneration Nomination Director Main Board Committee Committee Committee Bill Shannon Chairman 10 10 5 5 3 3 Bill oliver Chief 10 10 Executive Michael Dunn Group 10 10 Finance Director Steve Burke 10 10 Construction Director kay Chaldecott nED 2 2 2 Simon Clarke nED 8 10 1 1 2 2 0 1 David Garman Senior 10 10 3 3 5 5 3 3 independent Director katherine innes ker 9 10 3 3 5 5 1 1 3 nED lesley James nED 10 10 3 3 5 5 3 3 John Salmon nED 10 10 3 3 5 5 1 1 1 Actual attendance maximum number of meetings a director could attend.
2 Simon Clarke was unable to attend the Board and Nomination Committee meetings in February due to illness and the Board meeting in May due to prior business commitments.
3 Katherine Innes Ker was unable to attend the Board meeting in October due to illness.
71 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 EFFECtivEnESS Directors independence What is the profile of the Board?
Q: The Board currently comprises three executive and seven non-executive directors, A: including the Chairman.
With the exception of Simon Clarke, the Board considers that all of the non-executive directors are independent and is not aware of any relationship or circumstance likely to affect the judgement of any director.
4 Independence and a broad range of skills, experience, knowledge and diversity including gender diversity are represented on the Board.
Biographical details 6 ofalldirectors are given on pages 64 and 65.
At the 2013 Annual General Meeting AGM, and in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, shareholders will be asked to elect Kay Independent Chaldecott to the Board.
All other directors, with the exception of Katherine Innes Non-independent Ker and David Garman who both retire at the conclusion of the AGM, will seek reelection in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
What is the Boards view on gender diversity?
Q: The Board acknowledges the importance of diversity in all forms and recognises Skills A: the benefits that it can bring to both the Board and throughout the business.
With regard to gender diversity, the Company currently has 30% female representation on the Board which is ahead of the 25% target outlined by Lord Davies in his report Women on Boards published in February 2011.
1 2 th As at 30 November 2012 gender diversity was as follows: At Board level Number % women holding directorships: 3 30% women Chairs Board and Committees : 1 25% 7 women executive directors: 0 0% Finance women non-executive directors including the Chairman : 3 50% Operations HR Below Board level % percentage of women in senior executive positions: 13% percentage of women in the organisation: 45% Board gender split How has membership of the Board changed during the year?
Q: Board composition continues to develop and was further strengthened during A: the year with the appointment of Kay Chaldecott as a non-executive director 3 in October2012.
She has a long and distinguished career in the UK retail property sector enabling her to bring additional industry expertise to the Board.
Inaccordance with the Companys Articles of Association, shareholders will be asked to elect her to the Board at the 2013 AGM.
Further information on the 7 process followed in respect of this appointment can be found in the Nomination Committee report on pages 79 to 80.
Men Women Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 72 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Report continued EFFECtivEnESS ContinuED Board turnover refreshment % Are any further changes to Board composition anticipated?
Q: th As announced on 29 January 2013 Katherine Innes Ker, an independent nonA: executive director, and David Garman, the Senior Independent Director, will retire 20 20 from the Board with effect from the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
The search for Davids replacement is underway and an announcement will be made in duecourse.
What is the induction process for new directors?
Q: The Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, is responsible for the induction 10 A: of all new directors.
On joining the Board, a director receives a comprehensive induction pack which includes background information on the Company, material on matters relating to the activities of the Board and its Committees and governance-related information including the duties and responsibilities of directors.
The director meets with the executive directors to be briefed on strategy and performance and site visits are scheduled.
Major shareholders are also offered 2010 2011 2012 the opportunity to meet newly appointed directors should they express a desire todo so.
Tenure of directors as at th What arrangements are in place for director training anddevelopment?
30 November 2012 Q: Years The Company is committed to the continuing development of directors in A: order that they may build on their expertise and develop an ever more detailed 1 understanding of the business and the markets in which St. Modwen operates.
Training and development needs are discussed with each director by the 2 Chairman as part of the individual performance evaluation process and kept under 4 review.
 include visits to sites within the Companys property portfolio, both as a Board and individually, regular presentations to the Board by Regional Directors on key projects, and meetings with Jones Lang LaSalle to review their external property valuation reports.
The attendance by members of 3 Board Committees on courses relevant to aspects of their respective Committee specialisms is also encouraged.
Less than 3 36 Can the directors seek independent professional advice?
79 Q: More than 9 In addition to having direct access to the advice and services of the Company A: Secretary, all directors are able to seek independent professional advice in the course of their professional duties at the Companys expense.
How do you assess the effectiveness of the Board and itsCommittees?
Q: In 2012 an independent external review of the effectiveness of the Board and its A: Committees was conducted by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review.
Boardroom Review does not provide any other services to the Company.
The review focused on the activities of the Board in terms of its approach to strategy and operations, risk and control and performance management, together with Board culture and dynamics and the way in which it optimises its use of time.
The process involved in-depth confidential interviews with each director, observation of Board and Committee meetings and a review of selected papers.
The results of the evaluation exercise were presented to the Board in December 2012.
The output remains under consideration by the Board and any agreed changes will be implemented as soon as practicable.
Board and Committee terms of reference will also be reviewed in light of any changes adopted.
73 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 EFFECtivEnESS ContinuED How is the performance of the directors assessed?
Q: The individual performance of the directors is evaluated through one-to-one A: discussions with the Chairman.
David Garman, as Senior Independent Director, led the review by the non-executive directors of the Chairmans performance, which took into account the views of the executive directors.
No actions were considered necessary as a result of these evaluations and the Chairman confirms that the performance of each director continues to be effective, that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their respective roles and that their respective skills complement one another to enhance the overall operation of the Board.
aCCountaBility What is the Boards approach to financial and business reporting?
Q: When reporting to shareholders the Board aims to present a fair, balanced and A: understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects and is assisted in this by the Audit Committee.
This responsibility covers the annual and half year Report and Accounts, other price sensitive public reports, reports to regulators and information required to be presented by statutory requirements.
The assessment th for the year ended 30 November 2012 is provided in the Business Review sections of this Annual Report.
The responsibilities of the directors in respect of the preparation of the Annual Report are set out on page 98 and the auditors report on page 99 includes a statement by Deloitte about their reporting responsibilities.
As set out on page 97, the directors are of the opinion that the Company is a going concern.
The Board considers that the 2011 12 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
What is the Boards responsibility for managing risk?
Q: The Board is ultimately responsible for maintaining sound risk management and A: internal control systems.
Its policy is to have systems in place which optimise the Companys ability to manage risk in an effective and appropriate manner.
These systems also include financial controls, controls in respect of the financial reporting process and controls of an operational and compliance nature.
The Boards approach to risk management is supported by an oversight structure which includes the Audit Committee.
St. Modwens risk management and internal control systems are designed to identify, manage and, where practicable, reduce and mitigate the effect of the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They are not designed to eliminate such risk and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
What are the Companys key internal controls?
Q: The risk management and internal control system includes comprehensive monthly A: reporting to the Board on all activities through detailed portfolio analysis, property development progress reviews, management accounts and a comparison of committed expenditure against available facilities.
Detailed annual budgets are reviewed by the Board and revised forecasts for the year are prepared on a regular basis, including explanations of any variances between actual and budgeted performance.
There are clearly defined procedures for the authorisation of capital expenditure, purchases and sales of development and investment properties, construction activity, contracts and commitments together with a formal schedule of matters, including major investment and development decisions and strategic matters, that are reserved for Board approval.
Formal policies and procedures are in place covering allelements of bribery and anti-corruption, fraud prevention, whistleblowing, health and safety, employment and IT.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 74 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Report continued aCCountaBility ContinuED Is there an internal audit function?
Q: Yes, the Company has a full time Internal Audit Manager.
During the year, the A: Audit Committee approved the Group Internal Audit Charter which sets out the objectives, accountability and independence, authority, responsibilities, scope of work, and standards and performance for internal audit.
The activities of the function are focused on the controls that mitigate the principal risks faced by the Group.
Reports are prepared for the executive management and the findings are reported to the Audit Committee, which also reviews, approves and monitors the progress of internal audit plans for the year.
Further information can be found in theAudit Committee Report on pages 76 to 78.
How does the Board ensure that its risk management and internal control Q: systems are effective?
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the ongoing control process.
A: During the year it considered the effectiveness of the systems of internal control through a detailed report from senior management which sets out the Groups control environment, the manner in which key business risks are identified, the adequacy of information systems and control procedures and the manner in which any required corrective action is to be taken.
Key internal controls are also reviewed by internal audit as part of the annual audit plan and the Audit Committee receives and considers regular reports in respect of these reviews.
Both the Board and the Audit Committee review and approve the Group Risk Register, which is maintained by executive management, on an annual basis.
During the year, the Internal Audit Manager facilitated workshops in the business to embed further the risk management system.
A summary of the principal risks which could have a material impact on the Group is given on pages 54 to 57.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management during the period covered by this Annual Report.
It confirms that the processes described above, which accord with the guidance on internal control the revised Turnbull Guidance, have been in place throughout that period and up to the date of approval of this report.
The Board also confirms that no significant failings or weaknesses have been identified.
rEMunEration The primary objective of the Companys remuneration policy is to attract, retain and motivate high calibre senior executives through competitive pay arrangements which are also in the best interests of shareholders.
These include performance-related elements with demanding targets in order to align the interests of directors and shareholders and to reward financial success appropriately.
The policy is structured so as to be aligned with key strategic priorities and to be consistent with a Board-approved level of business risk.
Details of the Companys policy on remuneration and the elements of directors remuneration are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 94.
75 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 rElationS with SharEholDErS How does the Board engage with shareholders?
Q: The Board has a comprehensive investor relations programme which aims A: to provide existing and potential investors with a means of developing their understanding of St. Modwen.
The programme is split between institutional shareholders which make up the majority of shareholders, private shareholders and debt investors.
Feedback from the programme of events is provided to theBoard to ensure that they develop an understanding of the Companys majorinvestors.
As part of the programme, presentations on the half year and annual results are given in face to face meetings and conference calls with institutional investors, analysts and the media.
Copies of these presentations are published on the Companys website at www.
co. uk together with interim management statements.
In 2012 the Company held an investor day for institutional investors and analysts which included presentations on current trading, the Companys residential development business and a tour of the Longbridge site in Birmingham.
Meetings with principal shareholders, including the Clarke and Leavesley families, were also held and the Company had regular dialogue with its key relationship banks.
The Chairman is available to meet with institutional shareholders and investor representatives to discuss matters relating to strategy and governance.
Private shareholders are encouraged to give feedback and communicate with theBoard through the Company Secretary.
To whom do shareholders address any concerns?
Q: The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are available to meet shareholders A: throughout the year.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are also available to discuss any issues or concerns that shareholders may have.
During theyear no investor concerns were raised.
What is the purpose of the AGM?
Q: The AGM provides an opportunity for all shareholders to vote on the resolutions A: proposed and to question the Board and the Chairs of the Board Committees on matters put to the meeting.
The results of voting at general meetings are published on the Companys website, www.
The notice of meeting for the 2013 AGM can be found on pages 151 to 157.
CoMplianCE StatEMEnt This Corporate Governance statement, together with the Audit Committee report, the Nomination Committee report and the Directors Remuneration Report, provide a description of how the main principles of the Code have been applied by St. Modwen in2011 12.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and is available onits website at www.
uk th Throughout the financial year ended 30 November 2012, St. Modwen was in compliance with the relevant provisions set out in the Code with the exception of provisions C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 which require that membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees respectively should comprise independent non-executive directors.
As noted in the 2010 11 Annual Report, Simon Clarke was a member of both the Audit and Remuneration Committees but was not regarded as an independent non-executive director within the meaning of the Code given that he represents the interests of the Clarke and Leavesley families, who together hold approximately 21.4% of the Companys issued share capital.
Noting feedback received from institutional investor groups in relation to Simons Committee membership, the Board agreed that he should rd step down from both Committees with effect from 23 April 2012.
Since then the Company has been in compliance with provisions C. 3.1 and D. 2.1.
This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1, 2.2 1, 2.3 1, 2.5, 2.7 and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The information required to be disclosed by sub-section 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown in the section entitled Other Governance and Statutory Information.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview
