79 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Nomination Committee Report Bill Shannon Chairman of the Nomination Committee CoMMittEE MEMBErShip The Committee comprises the following directors, all of whom served throughout the financial year: Director Nomination Committee Position Bill Shannon Chairman David Garman Member lesley James Member Bill Shannon chairs the Committee except when the Committee is dealing with the appointment of a successor as Chairman when the Senior Independent Director chairs the Committee.
th Simon Clarke, Katherine Innes Ker and John Salmon were members of the Committee until 25 June 2012 when they stood down following a review of Committee composition: Simon continues to attend meetings of the Committee as an observer.
rolE oF thE CoMMittEE The Committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, succession planning including the retirement and appointment of Board members and making appropriate recommendations to ensure there are suitable levels of independence and diversity of skills, knowledge, experience and gender on the Board.
It also makes recommendations to the Board both on the composition of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and on the re-appointment of any non-executive director at the conclusion ofhis or her specified term of office.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website at www.
co. uk aDviCE proviDED to thE CoMMittEE From time to time the Committee appoints external search consultants to provide support in recruiting and selecting potential candidates for appointment to the Board.
During 2011 12 The Zygos Partnership was retained by the Committee as outlined onpage80: the firm has no other connection with the Company.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 80 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Nomination Committee Report continued CoMMittEES aCtivitiES The Committee met on three occasions in 2011 12: members attendance at meetings is set out in the table on page 70.
The Committees main focus in the financial year was on the structure, size and composition of the Board.
Having agreed that the Board would benefit from a non-executive director with property sector experience, a role profile was prepared.
The Zygos Partnership was engaged to assist with the search and a number of candidates were interviewed.
The Committee identified Kay Chaldecott as the preferred candidate, following which arrangements were made for her to meet the other members of the Board.
The Board nd unanimously approved the Committees recommendation that Kay be appointed and she joined the Board with effect from 22 October 2012.
The Committees recommendation that she be appointed as a member of the both the Audit and Remuneration th Committees was approved with effect from 17 December 2012.
Following a review, the Committee also recommended to the Board which was unanimously approved the re-appointment of Lesley James for a further three year period.
The potential approaches to the 2012 Board and Committee effectiveness review were also considered by the Committee.
In light of his growing portfolio of business interests, David Garman is to step down from the Board with effect from the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
The Zygos Partnership has been retained to assist with the search for his replacement.
BoarDrooM DivErSity The search for Board candidates is conducted, and appointments made, on merit, against objective selection criteria.
Diversity, whether in terms of skills, knowledge, experience or gender, is considered by the Nomination Committee when reviewing Board composition and making recommendations for Board appointments or re-appointments.
As stated in the corporate governance report on page 71 the Company currently has 30% female representation on the Board which is ahead of the 25% target outlined by Lord Davies in his report Women on Boards published in February 2011.
Allocation of time spent at Nomination Committee meetings in 2011 2012 % 10 20 70 Board composition Succession planning Effectiveness
