95 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Other Governance and Statutory Disclosures Annual General Meeting th The AGM of the Company will be held at 12.00 noon on 27 March 2013 at the Marketing Suite, Innovation Centre, 1 Devon Way, Longbridge Technology Park, Birmingham B31 2TS.
The notice of meeting, which includes the special business to be transacted and an explanation of all the resolutions to be considered at the meeting, is set out on pages 151 to 157. Dividend th The directors recommend a final dividend of 2.42p per ordinary share in respect of the year ended 30 November 2012, to be paid th th on4 April 2013 to ordinary shareholders on the register on 8 March 2013 which, together with the interim dividend of 1.21p paid on rd 3 September 2012, brings the total dividend for the year to 3.63p for the year 2011: 3.3p.
Share capital The Company has one class of ordinary share 10p and all shares rank equally, have equal voting rights and are fully paid.
The issued share capital of the Company is set out in Note K of the Company Financial Statements.
The Company does not currently hold any shares in treasury.
At the Companys 2012 AGM, shareholders authorised the Company to make market purchases of up to 20,036,093 ordinary shares, representing 10% of the issued share capital at that time, and to allot up to 49,639,069 ordinary shares representing 24.7% of the th issued share capital at that time.
These authorities expire at the 2013 AGM.
During the year ended 30 November 2012, no shares were allotted or repurchased.
Resolutions to renew these authorities will be proposed at the 2013 AGM.
St. Modwen operates an Employee Share Trust Trust to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of ordinary shares made under the th Companys share-based incentive arrangements.
As at 30 November 2012, the Trust held 215,754 shares 2011: 215,754 shares, representing 0.11% 2011: 0.11% of the Companys issued share capital.
The Trust deed contains a dividend waiver provision in respect of these shares.
Any voting or other similar decisions relating to shares held by the Trust would be taken by the Trustees, who may take account of any recommendations of the Company.
There were no purchases of shares by the Trust during the financial year.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares The holders of ordinary shares in the Company are entitled to receive dividends when declared, to receive the Companys annual andhalf year reports, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares th As at 30 November 2012 and as at the date of this report, except as referred to below, there are no restrictions on the transfer ofordinary shares in the Company, no limitations on the holding of ordinary shares and no requirements to obtain the approval oftheCompany, or of other holders of ordinary shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares.
The directors may refuse to register the transfer of a share in certificated form which is not fully paid or on which the Company has a lien, where the instrument of transfer does not comply with the requirements of the Companys Articles of Association, or if the transfer is in respect of more than one class of share or is in favour of more than four joint holders.
The directors may also refuse to register atransfer of a certificated share, which represents an interest of at least 0.25% in a class of shares, following the failure by the member or any other person appearing to be interested in the shares to provide the Company with information requested under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST and the directors can refuse to register the transfer ofanuncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares oronvoting rights.
Substantial shareholders th As at 30 November 2012, the Company had been notified of the following direct and indirect holdings of voting rights in its shares under Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority: Shareholder Number of shares % of voting rights lady Clarke and family holdings excluding Simon Clarke 19,962,539 9.96% J. D. leavesley and connected parties 18,263,382 9.12% Blackrock, inc. 10,028,322 5.01% t. r. property investment trust plC 6,802,638 3.40% st On 21 December 2012, the Company received notification of a holding by Norges Bank of 6,090,499 shares, representing 3.04% th ofvoting rights.
As at 4 February 2013, the Company had not been advised of any further changes or additions to the interests set outabove.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 96 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Other Governance and Statutory Disclosures continued Directors th The following served as directors during the year ended 30 November 2012: Bill Shannon Simon Clarke Bill Oliver David Garman Steve Burke Katherine Innes Ker Michael Dunn Lesley James nd Kay Chaldecott appointed 22 October 2012 John Salmon th The biographical details of all the directors serving at 30 November 2012, including details of their relevant experience and other th significant commitments, are shown on pages 64 and 65.
As announced on 29 January 2013, both Katherine Innes Ker and David th Garman will be retiring from the Board at the close of the AGM on 27 March 2013.
Following her appointment to the Board in October 2012 and in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Kay Chaldecott will retire and offer herself for election at the 2013 AGM.
With the exception of Katherine Innes Ker and David Garman, allother directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election in accordance with the Code.
The Articles of Association provide that a director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders or by the existing directors, either to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional director.
The Directors Remuneration Report, which includes details of directors service agreements and their interests in the Companys shares, is set out on pages 81 to 94.
Copies of the service contracts of the executive directors and the letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
Powers of the directors The powers of the directors are determined by the Companys Articles of Association, UK legislation including the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by the Company in general meeting.
The directors have been authorised by the Companys Articles of Association to issue and allot ordinary shares and to make market purchases of its own shares.
These powers are referred to shareholders for renewal at each AGM.
Further information is set out under the heading Share capital on page 95.
Directors interests in contracts No contract existed during the year in relation to the Companys business in which any director was materially interested, with the exception of those detailed in Note 22 to the Group Financial Statements.
Conflicts of interest Under the Companies Act 2006, directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with the Company.
As permitted bytheAct, the Companys Articles of Association enable directors to authorise actual or potential conflicts of interest.
Company policy requires that if a director becomes aware that he or she has a direct or indirect interest in an existing or proposed transaction with theCompany they should notify the Board at the next Board meeting or provide a written declaration.
Directors have a continuing dutyto update any changes to such interests.
No conflicts of interest were recorded during the year.
Directors liability insurance and indemnity The Company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of potential legal action taken against its directors.
To the extent permitted by law and in accordance with its Articles of Association, the Company also indemnifies the directors against any claims made against them as a consequence of the execution of their duties as directors of the Company.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association, which may only be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders, are available onitswebsite www.
co. uk Change of control The Company is party to a number of committed bank facilities which, upon a change of control, are terminable at the banks discretion.
Under such circumstances, awards made under the Companys share-based incentive arrangements would normally vest or become exercisable subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
In addition, the Companys retail bondholders have an option to require the Company to redeem the bonds should a change of control event occur.
97 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Creditor payment policy It is the Groups policy to agree specific payment terms for its business transactions with its suppliers and to abide by those terms whenever it is satisfied that the supplier has performed its obligations under the relevant contract.
The Group does not follow any specific code or standard in relation to payment practice.
th At 30 November 2012, the Companys aggregate level of creditor days amounted to 30 days 2011: 29 days.
Creditor days are calculated by expressing year end trade creditors as a fraction of the amounts the Company was invoiced by suppliers during the year and multiplying the resulting fraction by 365 days.
Employees St. Modwen is committed to regular communication and consultation with its employees and encourages employee involvement initsperformance.
News concerning St. Modwen, its activities and performance is published on the Companys intranet.
Quarterly management meetings are held to inform staff about matters affecting them as employees, at which their feedback is sought on decisions likely to affect their interests, and where a common awareness of the financial and economic factors affecting the Companys performance is developed.
This information is then cascaded to all employees based at the Companys head office and regional offices.
A performance-related annual bonus scheme and share option arrangements are designed to encourage employee involvement in the success of the Company.
Employment of disabled persons It is the policy of the Company to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment received from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities and wherever possible to continue the employment of, and to arrange appropriate training for, employees who have become disabled during the period of their employment.
The Company provides the same opportunities for training, career development and promotion for disabled as for other employees.
Political and charitable donations In accordance with the Companys policy, no political donations were made and no political expenditure was incurred during the year.
Direct charitable donations during theyear, excluding donations made by the St. Modwen Environmental Trust see page 63, totalled 6,000 2011: 11,000.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Directors Report defined below.
The directors have considered these factors and reviewed the financial position of the Group, including its joint ventures.
th The review included an assessment of future funding requirements based on cash flow forecasts extending to 30 November 2014, valuation projections and the ability of the Group to meet covenants on existing borrowing facilities.
The directors were satisfied that theforecasts and projections were based on realistic assumptions and that the sensitivities applied in reviewing downside scenarios were appropriate.
As described in the Financial Review on pages 51 to 53, there are no corporate or joint venture facilities that require renewal before November 2014.
Based on their assessment, the directors are of the opinion that the Group has adequate committed resources to fund its operations for the foreseeable future and so determine that it remains appropriate for the Financial Statements to be prepared on a going concernbasis.
Auditor and disclosure of information Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration willbeproposed at the 2013 AGM.
Each of the directors in office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Each such director also confirms that he or she has taken allthe steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This Directors Report comprises inside front cover and pages 1 to 98 and is the management report for the purposes of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Tanya Stote Company Secretary th 4 February 2013 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview
