76 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Audit Committee Report John SalMon Chairman of the Audit Committee CoMMittEE MEMBErShip The Committee comprises the following directors, all of whom served throughout the financial year unless indicated otherwise below: Director Audit Committee Position John Salmon Chairman th kay Chaldecott Member with effect from 17 December 2012 David Garman Member katherine innes ker Member lesley James Member rd Simon Clarke was a member of the Committee until 23 April 2012 when he stood down: he continues to attend meetings of the Committee as an observer.
As a former partner of  LLP, John Salmon, the Committee Chairman, is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
rolE oF thE CoMMittEE The Committee is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements, including formal announcements relating to its performance, and considers the appropriateness of accounting policies.
The Committee also reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems.
It considers the work and plans of the Groups internal audit function and assesses the functions effectiveness, and reviews reports and plans from, and consults with, the external auditor, monitoring their independence and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website at www.
The terms of reference were reviewed during 2012 to ensure that they continue to reflect accurately the Committees remit.
aDviCE proviDED to thE CoMMittEE The Committee has direct access to both the Internal Audit Manager and external auditor outside formal Committee meetings.
Whilstpermitted to do so, no member of the Committee, nor the Committee collectively, sought outside professional advice beyond that which was provided directly to the Committee by the external auditor and the external valuer during 2011 12.
77 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CoMMittEES aCtivitiES Allocation of time spent at Audit Committee meetings The Committee met on three occasions in 2011 12: members attendance at meetings in 2011 2012 isset out in the table on page 70.
The Chairman of the Board, Group Finance Director, % Construction Director, Group Financial Controller, Internal Audit Manager, the audit engagement partner and other representatives from Deloitte LLP and the Company 15 Secretary attended meetings of the Committee by invitation.
35 The Committee also met without any executive management present and on two 15 occasions held private sessions with the Internal Audit Manager and external auditor.
Matters formally reviewed and discussed by the Committee during the financial year 15 areset out below.
20 Financial reporting monitoring the financial reporting process, including the review of the half year and 1.
Valuation annual results, commentary and announcements together with the Annual Report.
Risk management Following its review, the Committee has advised the Board that it is of the view that & internal control the2011 12 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 4.
External audit understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 5.
Internal audit theCompanys performance, business model and strategy: considering the continuing appropriateness of accounting policies and key judgements.
Particular consideration was given to the Project MoDEL contract to redevelop RAF Uxbridge, the acquisition of full ownership of the Sowcrest and Holaw investments from the Companys previous joint venture partner, and share-based payment accounting: receiving independent property valuation reports prepared by Jones Lang LaSalle which detailed movements resulting from activities undertaken by the Company andthose arising from changes in the property market: a going concern review: and considering reports prepared by the external auditor on the half year and annualresults.
Risk management and internal control receiving updates on corporate risk assessment management activities: reviewing the Groups risk register, including appropriate mitigating actions: receiving an annual report on internal control: considering reports on the Groups tax compliance position: and approval of a formal policy on fraud prevention.
Internal audit receiving updates on the activities of internal audit: assessing implementation status reports on internal audit recommendations: considering and approving the internal audit programme of reviews of the Groups processes and controls, including coverage and allocation of resource: and reviewing the Group Internal Audit Charter which sets out the objectives, accountability and independence, authority, responsibilities, scope of work, andstandards and performance for internal audit.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 78 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Audit Committee Report continued External auditor considering and approving the proposed audit plan prepared by the external auditor: review of the external auditor management letter containing observations arising from the annual audit leading torecommendations for control or financial reporting improvement: and monitoring the independence of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Companys policies on external audit.
The policies, designed to maintain the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, regulate the appointment of former employees of the external audit firm and set out the approach to be taken when using the external auditor for non-audit work.
Non-audit services provided by the external auditor are monitored throughout the year by the Committee.
The Committee recognises that whilst it is cost effective for the external auditor to provide tax compliance and tax planning services to the Group, other services may only be provided where alternative providers do not exist or where it is cost effective or in the Groups interest for the external auditor to provide such services.
The external auditor would not be invited to provide any non-audit services where it was felt that this could adversely affect their independence or objectivity: such services would includethe provision of internal audit and management consulting activities.
During 2011 12 non-audit work included tax compliance and advisory services together with property and planning advice provided by Drivers Jonas Deloitte now Deloitte Real Estate, part of Deloitte LLP.
The Committee concluded that undertaking such work did not compromise auditor independence or objectivity.
Given their detailed understanding of the business, the external auditor was able to provide this work more cost efficiently and effectively than an alternative provider who would not have benefitted from pre-existing knowledge of the business.
Further analysis of external auditor remuneration is disclosed in Note 3b to the Group Financial Statements.
The Groups current external auditor, Deloitte LLP was appointed in 2007 following a tender process.
The audit engagement partner responsible for the Groups audit was rotated in 2012 in line with ethical standards published by the Auditing Practices Board.
Having considered Deloittes independence, compliance with relevant statutory, regulatory and ethical standards and assessed its objectivity, the Committee unanimously recommended to the Board that a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the Companys external auditor be proposed to shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
The external audit contract will be tendered again in line with the transitional arrangements for audit tendering published by the Financial Reporting Council.
 obligations which would restrict the Companys selection of external auditor.
