Berendsen plc Report and 54 Accounts 2012 Corporate governance statement Effective oversight.
Berendsen Universe provides a platform Board composition Compliance with the UK for employees to keep updated with the Corporate Governance Code During 2012, four of the seven board latest group news and key policies and members were independent For the period under review, we are toshare best practice.
Vision and Values non-executive directors: David Lowden, pleased to confirm that the company success stories are posted to celebrate Per Utnegaard, Andrew Wood and Lucy has fully complied with the principles noteworthy achievement and highlight Dimes, who joined the board as a andprovisions of the UK Corporate examples of good governance non-executive director on 1 June 2012.
Each director has attained a level of Further disclosure about how we have experience that taken together provides applied the Code can be found in the Role of the board a suitable breadth of strategic and Remuneration report on page 69 and The key responsibilities of the board are financial management experience and inthe following corporate governance to set the strategy, monitor what allhave significant international statement which has been structured management are doing, hold them backgrounds.
Per Utnegaard is currently around the five sections of the Code: accountable for performance against the Chief Executive Officer of Swissport Leadership, Effectiveness, agreed targets, and challenge their and is based in Switzerland: David Accountability, Remuneration and thinking to ensure that they remain Lowden has previously been a Chief Relations with Shareholders.
focused on achieving our strategic aims Executive Officer of a UK listed company Further information on the UK Corporate and objectives in order to deliver value to with significant international operations: Governance Code can be found on the shareholders and other stakeholders.
Andrew Wood is a previous Group Financial Reporting Councils website at The board sets the parameters by which Finance Director of two FTSE 250 www.
the group seeks to promote and deepen companies and Lucy Dimes is the the interests of its shareholders and current CEO of Alcatel-Lucent, UK & monitors the performance of the Ireland having previously held various Leadership executives to whom it delegates the senior roles at BT Plc, including The board is responsible for setting and management of the business.
Although Managing Director of Group and monitoring the groups governance not involved in day-to-day management Openreach Service Operations.
Implementation of activities, the board does have a formal In respect of the executive directors, governance throughout the group is the schedule of matters reserved to it.
These Peter Ventress is an experienced leader responsibility of the executive board.
matters, which were last reviewed in having been for many years an Regular updates are provided to the December 2012, include: international Chief Executive Officer and board and its committees by the Chief k group strategy, business objectives, Kevin Quinn has been Chief Financial Executive Officer and Chief Financial long-range plans and annual budgets: Officer of the group for over seven years Officer.
The board regularly meets and was Chairman of the Business management below the executive board k annual and interim results and interim Services Association during 2012. level to establish how the business is management statements: progressing and to ensure the On 1 May 2012, Iain Ferguson was k material acquisitions, disposals and governance framework is fully appointed as the non-executive contracts: embedded within the group.
Chairman following the retirement of Christopher Kemball.
Iain Ferguson was k major changes to the groups internal Governance throughout the group is Chief Executive of Tate and Lyle plc from controls or to its risk management or rooted within the Berendsen culture and 2003 to 2009, having previously worked financial reporting policies and Vision and Values.
Further information for Unilever, where he held a number of procedures: on our Vision and Values and the senior positions including Executive implementation throughout the group k determining the nature and extent of Chairman of Birds Eye Walls and Senior can be found on page 40.
Governance the risks the group is willing to accept Vice President, Corporate Development.
issupported by a number of key policies to achieve its strategic objectives: He is also a non-executive director of including: the matters reserved for the Balfour Beatty plc and Greggs plc.
David k major changes to the groups capital, board, group corporate responsibility Lowden replaced Iain Ferguson as the corporate or management structure: and health and safety policies, risk Senior Independent Director effective and management guidelines, the groups from 1 May 2012. ethics policy and the Groups Finance k succession planning for the board and Manual.
Our group intranet senior management.
Matters which are outside the scope of the reserved matters are decided by the executive management.
Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 55 Per Utnegaard has served on the board Any director appointed by the board Peter Ventress, the Chief Executive for eight years and following the during the year will also stand for Officer, is responsible for leading and successful handover from Christopher appointment by shareholders at the managing the business within the Kemball to Iain Ferguson, Per will step following Annual General Meeting.
authorities delegated by the board.
down from the board with effect from He is accountable for: the overall 30 April 2013.
Division of responsibilities performance and management of thegroup: the development of group Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Appointments to the board strategy for approval by the board: The roles of the Chairman and the Chief ensuring that the board is fully informed The nomination committee ensures Executive Officer are separately held of all important matters: succession thatthere is a formal, rigorous and and the division of their responsibilities planning for key management roles transparent procedure for the isclearly established, set out in writing andcorporate responsibility.
All and regularly reviewed by the board.
appointments are preceded by an Between board meetings there is regular The Chairman, Iain Ferguson, is evaluation of the balance of skills, interaction and collaboration between responsible for the leadership of the experience and knowledge of the the Chief Executive Officer and the board, ensuring its effectiveness by current board members.
The nomination Chairman and, where required, with creating and managing a constructive committee then prepares a candidate other board members.
relationship between the executive specication and appoints external andnon-executive directors.
His role Non-executive directors advisers to assist the committee in Details of the non-executive directors istopromote a culture of openness, thesearch for a new director.
Further challenge and debate, ensuring that areset out on pages 52 and 53 and details of the work undertaken by the theirbiographies reect suitable breadth there is adequate time available for nomination committee during 2012 discussion.
Although it is the and depth of strategic, management aredetailed on page 64. andnancial experience.
The board responsibility of the Chief Executive Under the companys Articles of Officer and Chief Financial Officer considers that during 2012 the non-executive directors were integral Association all directors are subject to toengage with shareholders on a re-election to the board every three day-to-day basis, the Chairmans role toproviding a solid foundation for good corporate governance for the group, years.
However, the board has decided, includes maintaining an overview of in accordance with the Code, that all suchmatters.
ensuring that no individual or group ofindividuals dominated the boards directors wishing to continue will retire and offer themselves for annual decision-making and that this will remain the case for 2013. re-election by the shareholders attheAnnual General Meeting.
Balance of non-executive directors Length of tenure of and executive directors non-executive directors 1 Non-executive 1 03 years 3 41 1 Chairman 1 2 46 years 0 2 2 Executive directors 2 3 79 years 1 3 3 Independent 4 More than 9 years 0 non-executive directors 4 4 Non-independent 3 non-executive directors 0 Non-executive director Chairman Non-executive director Chairman industry background experience previous positions 1 Business Services 1 1 CEO listed plc 2 1 1 2 FMCG 1 2 CFO listed plc 1 5 3 Industrial transportation 1 3 CEO large group 2 2 4 Logistics distribution 1 5 Telecommunications 1 4 3 3 2 Berendsen plc Report and 56 Accounts 2012 Corporate governance statement Senior Independent Director The executive board In addition to the executive boards David Lowden, our Senior Independent The executive board sits at the apex of collective responsibilities, members of Director, plays an important role on the management decision-making.
It is the executive board have been assigned board.
He is an experienced and trusted chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, areas of specific responsibility including: sounding board for the Chairman and Peter Ventress.
The other members are: operations Peter Havus, procurement Chief Executive Officer and meets them the Chief Financial Officer, Kevin Quinn, and supply chain Steve Finch and sales regularly to discuss key issues, whilst, the three Business Line Managing and marketing Christian Ellegaard.
where necessary, also acting as a conduit Directors, Christian Ellegaard, Peter between the Chairman, the nonHavus and Steve Finch, Chris Thrush Board independence executive directors and shareholders.
the Group Director, Human Resources The board considers that in 2012 all David Lowden additionally assists with and the Company Secretary, David fournon-executive directors remained the annual evaluation of the Chairman Lawler.
In addition to regular independent from executive management, alongside the Chief Executive Officer, communications between its members, free from any business or other relationship Peter Ventress.
David Lowden the executive board formally met 11 times that could materially interfere with the strengthens his understanding of our during2012.
major shareholders key interests The members of the executive board through a combination of reading To safeguard their independence, have collective responsibility for the investor relation reports and where directors are not entitled to vote on any day-to-day running of the groups appropriate conducting shareholder matter in which they have a material business and their functions including: meetings.
David is highly suited to the personal interest unless the directors role of Senior Independent Director k developing the groups strategy and unanimously decide otherwise and, through his extensive knowledge of the budget for board approval: where necessary, directors are required Berendsen group combined with his to absent themselves from a meeting k monitoring the financial, operational wealth of commercial experience as a ofthe board while such matters are and service performance of the group previous Chief Executive of Taylor being discussed.
and reviewing the group risk register: Nelson Sofres plc in addition to being a allocating resources across the non-executive director of William Hill plc groupwithin parameters agreed and Michael Page International plc which bythe board: gives him a good understanding of the requirements of both institutional and k planning and initiating major private investors.
cross-business programmes: and k developing leadership and future talent programmes and securing strong succession planning for thegroup.
The executive board Peter Ventress Kevin Quinn David Lawler Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary See biography on page 52 See biography on page 53 See biography on page 53 Christian Ellegaard Steve Finch Peter Havus Chris Thrush Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Group Director, Facility UK Flat Linen Workwear Human Resources Christian joined the group in 1993 and Steve joined the group in 1996 Peter joined the group in 1985 and Chris was appointed Group Director, was appointed Managing Director of through the acquisition of Spring was appointed Managing Director for Human Resources in May 2011.
He has the Nordic Region in 2007, having Grove Services where he held the the Continent region in 2007.
He has previously held HR Director roles with held a number of senior posts, position of Commercial Director and held a number of senior posts, Corporate Express N. V. DePuy, a including Managing Director in was appointed Managing Director of including Managing Director Sweden, Johnson and Johnson company, Denmark.
Christian holds a BSc in the Sunlight Service Group in 2001.
Managing Director Denmark and Gestetner and the University of Economics and Business Prior to joining Spring Grove in 1995, Chief Operating Officer, mainland Lancaster in the UK.
He has lived and Administration from the Copenhagen Steve spent 25 years in the Europe, having started his career in worked extensively outside the UK in Business School and an MBA from telecommunications industry, latterly the textile rental industry in Sweden Europe, the USA and Asia.
He holds Monterey Institute of International as Sales Director in Hutchison in1983.
Peter holds a degree in an MBA and is a Fellow of the Studies.
On 1 January 2012 he was Telecom now Orange.
On 1 January 2012 he Chartered Institute of Personnel appointed Managing Director, Facility.
an MBA from Bath University.
On wasappointed Managing Director, anddevelopment.
Managing Director, UK Flat Linen.
Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 57 To strengthen the independence of the Conflicts of interest Effectiveness non-executive directors and to enable The board has put procedures in place them to discuss more freely the Board activities in 2012 to resolve situations where a director performance of the groups executive has a conflict of interest.
As part of these The board requires that all directors management, the Chairman meets procedures, the board: devote sufficient time to discharge their formally with the non-executive directors duties effectively and to use their best at least once each year without the k considers each conflict situation endeavours to attend meetings.
In 2012, this separately based on its particular facts: 2012 the board met nine times, including meeting was held on 15 November.
k considers the conflict situation in a strategy review meeting in September.
The independence of the non-executive conjunction with all other directors The main areas of focus in 2012 are directors is fundamental to the boards duties and obligations under the detailed on page 58.
In addition, decision-making and discussion.
Any Companies Act 2006: thenon-executive directors met director who has concerns about the withoutthe executive directors on k keeps records and board minutes running of the group or a proposed 15November 2012. of authorisations granted by directors course of action is encouraged to and the scope of any approvals given: During 2012 all the directors confirmed express those concerns which are then and that they have been able to allocate minuted.
No such concerns were raised sufficient time to discharge their during 2012. k regularly reviews conflict of interest responsibilities effectively.
The independence of the directors is arerequired to notify the Chairman further supported by the work of the The board has complied with these andthe board of any alterations to their Company Secretary whose appointment procedures during the year and each external commitments that arise during and removal is the responsibility of director has confirmed there have the year with an indication of the time theboard as a whole.
The Company beenno conflicts of interest arising commitment involved.
During 2012, Secretary who is also secretary to the during 2012.
David Lowden resigned as a nonaudit, nomination and remuneration executive director at Cable and Wireless committees, ensures that board Worldwide plc and was appointed a procedures are complied with non-executive director of Michael Page andprovides advice on regulatory International plc.
The board does not compliance matters and corporate believe that this change will affect governance.
All directors have Davids commitment to his role as unrestricted access to the advice and SeniorIndependent Director.
services of the Company Secretary.
The attendance of all individual directors There is also an agreed procedure by at board and committee meetings for which directors can, for the purposes the year ended 31 December 2012 is ofdischarging their duties, obtain detailed below.
independent professional advice at the companys expense.
No director made use of this facility during 2012.
Committee Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Board and committee composition and attendance memberships Independent meetings committee committee committee Total number of meetings 9 3 4 3 Executive directors Peter Ventress Nom No 9 3 Kevin Quinn No No 9 Non-executive directors Christopher Kemball Nom, Rem No 2 1 1 Lucy Dimes Audit, Nom, Rem Yes 5 1 2 2 Iain Ferguson Nom, Rem No 9 4 3 David Lowden Audit, Nom, Rem Yes 9 3 4 3 Per Utnegaard Audit, Nom, Rem Yes 9 3 4 3 Andrew Wood Audit, Nom, Rem Yes 8 3 3 3 Excluding: the non-executive directors meeting on 15 November 2012 Including: six bimonthly board meetings, two offsite meetings, and one strategy meeting Christopher Kemball attended all meetings until his retirement in April 2012 Lucy Dimes, who joined the board on 1 June 2012, was unable to attend the board and committee meetings on 24 October and 17 August due to previously arranged commitments Andrew Wood was unable to attend a board meeting and a remuneration committee meeting on the 24 October due to a family bereavement Berendsen plc Report and 58 Accounts 2012 Corporate governance statement The main areas the board focused on during 2012 were: k Received regular updates from the Chief Executive Officer about the ongoing execution of the 2010 Strategy formulation, strategyreview implementation andmonitoring k Received presentations from the three business line management teams: Workwear, Facility and UK Flat Linen inMay, June and September k Reviewed and approved the acquisition of Decontam a German cleanroom business.
For more information onhow wehave expanded our cleanroom business, see page 27 k Reviewed and approved the acquisition of the ISS Washroom business in the Netherlands k Received presentations from the groups Tax and Treasury Director on the groups tax compliance and structure k Received regular updates from the Group Director, Human Resources on management development and successionplanning k Met the executive board in September to discuss the groups strategy k Received post-acquisition reports from management in respect of the recent acquisitions in Scandinavia andGermany k Reviewed monthly reports from the Chief Executive Officer and the Business Line Managing Directors on the Performance keyissues affecting the business monitoring k Reviewed monthly reports from the Chief Financial Officer on performance against budget and forecast.
Formore information on our financial performance, see page 18 k Reviewed reports from the Chief Financial Officer on the financial position of the group, which included treasurymanagement k Reviewed regular reports from the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees on matters discussed at committee meetings k Approved the full year and half year results for the group k Reviewed reports on peer group comparison of results k Made recommendations regarding the 2011 final dividend and approved the 2012 interim dividend k Approved the groups budget for 2013 and its medium-term plan to 2015 k Reviewed reports on governance issues, including changes arising from the introduction of the new UK Corporate Governance Governance Code 2012 and the consultation on the revised remuneration reporting regulations from the and risk Department forBusiness, Innovation & Skills k Performed regular reviews of the significant risks affecting the group.
For more information on our risk management framework and processes, see page 33 k Reviewed and updated the matters reserved for the board k Reviewed and approved the groups delegated authorities k Regularly reviewed the action list received from the external board evaluation performed by Dr Tracy Long inQ42011 k Received reports from each board committees chairman k Reviewed regular reports and key performance indicators on health and safety and corporate social responsibility issues.
For more information on our corporate responsibility and health and safety policies and procedures, seepage 44 k Received internal audit reports and monitored the implementation of internal audit recommendations k Reviewed the conflicts of interest register and confirmed there were no existing conflicts k Reviewed and discussed the findings from the 2012 internal board evaluation conducted by Iain Ferguson andDavidLowden Attended meetings with the executive board in May, June and September including: Meeting country management site visits k Meeting the Workwear management team on 2 3 May 2012 k Meeting the UK Flat Linen management team on 26 June 2012 k Meeting the Facility management team on 19 20 September 2012 k Visiting the West Bromwich and German Cleanroom facilities k Reviewed the 2012 AGM proxy voting figures.
For more information on the 2012 AGM visit our website: Shareholder www.
com engagement k Reviewed reports from brokers on shareholder feedback from meetings with the Chief Executive Officer andChief Financial Officer k Hosted a non-executive directors dinner with institutional investors on 15 November 2012 k Made preparations in respect of the 2013 Annual General Meeting k Reviewed and agreed the appointment specifications for the appointment of a new non-executive director Other k Approved the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 59 Induction, training There is a formal induction programme thereby ensuring that they have all the and information flow for all new non-executive directors latest and relevant information.
Included covering, for example: the operation with these papers are detailed monthly The Chairman is responsible for ensuring andactivities of the group including accounts together with reports from that all non-executive directors receive sitevisits and meeting members of the theChief Executive Officer, Chief ongoing training and development so senior management teams : the groups Financial Officer and the business line that they can appropriately perform their principal risks and uncertainties: the role Managing Directors.
During the last quarter of 2012 of the board and the decision-making theChairman met individually with each After each board meeting, the Company matters reserved to it and the non-executive director to discuss their Secretary operates a comprehensive responsibilities of the groups specific training and development follow-up procedure to ensure that boardcommittees.
requirements and to agree a training actions are completed as agreed by the programme for 2013.
Training and Following her appointment in June 2012, board.
Briefing packs are also circulated development needs were also discussed Lucy Dimes underwent a formal and at times when board meetings are not at the non-executive directors meeting comprehensive induction programme scheduled.
These briefing packs ensure on 15 November 2012.
Each non-executive which included receiving presentations that the non-executive directors are kept director currently serving on the board from the management teams of the core informed of the latest issues affecting has confirmed that in 2012 they have business lines UK Flat Linen, Workwear, thegroup.
The board uses an electronic kept themselves properly briefed on Cleanroom and Mats and Washroom in board paper system so that directors can andinformed about current issues.
addition to visiting six facilities in the UK, access all board papers and briefing Germany, the Netherlands and Denmark.
During 2012, all of our UK-based The board is satisfied that following the non-executive directors joined and The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief induction process, Lucy has been fully wereactive members of, the Deloitte Financial Officer ensure that the board briefed on the responsibilities of her role Academy, which provides regular iskept fully aware on a timely basis and on the operations and key activities updates on key financial and business ofbusiness issues and prospects of the group.
The board regularly receives throughout the group.
Both are members reports from the Company Secretary In advance of Iain Ferguson becoming of the executive board and are directors oncurrent or pressing legal, regulatory Chairman on 1 May 2012, he had a of Sunlight Service Group, the holding and governance issues and any key or number of meetings with Christopher company of our UK trading businesses upcoming changes.
A number of board Kemball, Peter Ventress and David and of Berendsen A S, the management briefing sessions were also held where Lawler in order that he could be fully company of our European businesses.
external advisers provided updates on briefed, thereby ensuring an organised Inaddition, during 2012, they periodically remuneration and accounting standards and timely handover of responsibilities.
attended individual business line board and at which an economist gave his meetings, meeting the management Formal board meetings are held six thoughts about the economic outlook teams of each operation.
The key issues times each year.
Prior to each board in2013 and 2014. raised at these meetings were then meeting an agenda with supporting brought to the attention of the board.
papers is circulated to the directors, Shaped for sharing expertise On 1 June 2012, we welcomed Lucy Dimes to the Berendsen board.
Through a comprehensive induction programme she met advisers, executive board members and senior management from the group head office, management teams from the core business lines, and visited six facilities in the UK, Germany, Netherlands and Denmark.
Theinduction was completed in October 2012 and provided Lucy with an excellent insight into Berendsen operations and the opportunities andissues we face.
Berendsen plc Report and 60 Accounts 2012 Corporate governance statement In 2012 the board met with all the Performance evaluation Among other things the review management teams of the core growth investigated a variety of aspects A comprehensive evaluation of the business lines to review and discuss their associated with board effectiveness, performance of the board, its business line strategy.
This involved specifically: committees and each of its directors meetings in May, June and September iscarried out annually, a process led k the way in which the board and included site visits to West bytheChairman and supported by definesitsrole and approaches Bromwich UK and Bad Windsheim theCompany Secretary.
itswork strategy, risk and control, south of Frankfurt, Germany.
performance management In December 2011, the board These comprehensive visits gave board andcommunication : commissioned its first external board members detailed insights into the evaluation which provided invaluable k the balance of skills, experience and operations of our businesses, their insight into our effectiveness and helped knowledge about the group: challenges and opportunities.
These establish a benchmark for measuring visits and subsequently agreed follow-up k board diversity, and future progress.
The board found the actions demonstrate the free flow of review very informative and, following a k the way in which the board works information and communication detailed discussion on 21 February 2012, together culture and dynamics, between the board and the senior agreed on a number of focus areas for andoptimises its use of time and management teams within the group.
The external evaluation was itscontribution to the company.
In2013 the board will meet the performed by Dr Tracy Long of management teams from our UK Hotels In addition, a review of the Chairmans Boardroom Review who provides and German manage for value performance is led by David Lowden noother service to the company.
The DrLong has been working with executive directors are evaluated by In consultation with the Chairman and FTSE100 and FTSE 250 companies reference to their executive duties Chief Executive Officer, the Company since 2004 and has conducted over through a separate process whereby Secretary manages the provision of 90board evaluations.
theChairman and the non-executive information to the board for their formal In 2012, the boards performance was directors assess the ChiefExecutive board meetings and at other appropriate evaluated internally based on the themes Officer and the Chief Executive Officer times.
The Chairman and Chief Executive and recommendations of the 2011 assesses the Chief Financial Officer and Officer also maintain regular informal external evaluation.
Iain Ferguson other members of the executive board.
individually met each director and the Company Secretary during November and December 2012.
Shaped for effective oversight During 2012, our board met senior management from all three core business lines.
Meetings in London, West Bromwich and Bad Windsheim in Germany provided each board member with an excellent insight into the quality of our management teams and how they areimplementing the groups strategy.
Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 61 Shaped for continuous improvement Each year, the Berendsen board, led by our Chairman, performs a detailed review of its performance and identifies areas on which to focus during the coming 12 months.
The first external board evaluation was performed by DrTracy Long of Boardroom Review and her findings were discussed by the board on 21February 2012.
The board found this review tobe very helpful and agreed an action list of areas on which to focus during 2012.
Board performance evaluation 2012 objectives 2012 achievements k To support the Chief Executive Officer and executive board k Regular meetings between the Chairman and inexecuting the strategic plan  k The board received regular feedback on the implementation ofbusiness line strategy k Organised a strategy meeting with the executive board inSeptember 2012 k To develop a deeper understanding of and involvement in, k The board received regular competitor updates thegroups external landscape from the Group Business Development Director and the GroupBrokers k Received presentation from an economist who provided indications on the economic outlook for 2013 and 2014 k To expand its knowledge of each business line and meet k Met over 30 managers during 2012 each of the core growth management teams k Received presentations from the Facility, UK Flat Linen and Workwear business lines in May, June and September k To improve the boards understanding of leadership k Received regular presentations and updates on the development and succession planning progressofthe succession planning from the Group Director, Human Resources The full results of the board evaluation were discussed at the board meeting on 27 February 2013.
The board has concluded that, following this comprehensive review, the board and its committees operate effectively and that each director is contributing to the overall effectiveness and success of the group.
Nevertheless, in light of the evaluation, the board has identified a number of performance areas that could be improved.
2013 performance objectives For 2013 the board has set itself the following performance objectives: k Support the Chief Executive Officer and executive board on the delivery of the groups strategic objectives: k To meet management of the groups Manage for Value businesses and gain a more detailed understanding of the opportunities and issues facing those businesses: k To support the executive board in the groups talent management programmes and succession planning.
Berendsen plc Report and 62 Accounts 2012 Corporate governance statement Financial reporting Whistleblowing Accountability In addition to the general internal The group has a system by which staff Financial and business reporting controls and risk management may, in complete confidence, raise processes, the group also has specic concerns about possible wrongdoing On pages 6 and 7 we provide an internal controls and risk management innancial reporting or other matters.
explanation of the basis on which systems to govern the financial reporting During 2012 the system was operational thegroup generates value over the process and preparation of the annual throughout the group in 15 countries.
long-term and how we intend to deliver financial statements.
These systems Due to the diversity of our workforce, on our strategic objectives.
include clear policies and procedures thesystem operates in 25 languages.
forensuring that the groups financial Procedures are in place to ensure issues Risk management and internal control reporting processes and the preparation raised are addressed in a prompt, Pages 33 to 38 outline how the board of its consolidated accounts comply thorough and condential manner.
The oversees risk management and withall relevant regulatory reporting Company Secretary is required to report internalcontrol.
These are comprehensively to the audit committee twice each year, detailed in the Group Finance Manual, in February and August about new Annual assessment of the effectiveness which is used by the businesses in the incidents reported and on the integrity of internal control systems preparation of their results.
Financial ofthe whistleblowing procedures, the The board and audit committee control requirements are also set out in state of ongoing investigations and requested, received and reviewed the Group Finance Manual Minimum conclusions reached.
During 2012 reports from senior management, its Control Framework.
Management groupemployees used this system advisers, group internal audit and our representations covering compliance toraise concerns about nine separate external auditors to help with their with relevant policies and the accuracy issues, allof which were reported to annual assessment of the effectiveness of financial information are also collated theaudit committee and responded of the groups internal control systems.
Through the on-going processes Detailed accounts for each reporting outlined on pages 33 and 34, areas for entity are prepared monthly, comprising Remuneration improvement in internal controls are an income statement, cash ow and continuously identied and action plans Details of directors remuneration can balance sheet in a manner very similar devised.
Progress towards completion befound on pages 69 to 79 which detail tothe year end and half yearly reporting ofactions is regularly monitored by theremuneration strategy for executive processes.
These are subject to management and the board.
The board directors, the key elements of management review and analysis in the considers that none of the areas of remuneration and how the remuneration financial review cycle as set out above.
improvement identied constitute committee ensures focus is on delivering asignicant failing or weakness.
the groups strategic plans and priorities.
Anti-bribery and corruption The board considers that the information All businesses within the group are that it receives is sufficient to enable it to Relations with shareholders tasked with adopting a risk-based review the effectiveness of the groups approach to managing any potential internal controls in accordance with the Shareholder engagement issues relating to bribery and corruption.
internal control guidance for directors Risk assessments are required to be issued by the Turnbull Review Group.
Shareholders play an important and completed at least annually, or upon any vitalrole in the groups governance by In March 2013, an external independent significant changes to the business.
The electing the directors, monitoring and review of the Groups Risk Management audit committee is regularly updated on rewarding their performance and by systems will be performed.
During 2012, no instances engaging in constructive dialogue with scheduled to be discussed by the board ofbribery or corruption have come to the board.
Size of shareholding % of holders 4 1 Up to 10,000 84.3% 3 1 2 10,001 up to 100,000 9.6% 2 3 100,000 up to 1 million 4.7% 4 1 million up to 10 million 1.3% 5 10 million 0.1% Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 63 The Chairman is responsible for ensuring In addition, on 15 November 2012 the Annual General Meeting that there is ongoing and effective Chairman hosted a dinner where major The Annual General Meeting takes communication with shareholders and shareholders had the opportunity to placein London.
The 2013 meeting that all directors are made aware of any meet and raise issues directly with the willbe held on 25 April at the Royal major shareholders issues or concerns.
non-executive directors without the Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton Place, Ifshareholders have any concerns, which executives being present.
Formal notication the normal channels of communication attended by nine major shareholders will be sent to shareholders approximately to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief representing approximately 50% of the five weeks in advance and in any event Financial Officer or the Chairman have groups issued share capital.
at least 21 days before the meeting.
failed to resolve or for which contact All the directors at the time of the 2012 Other general meetings may also be isinappropriate, then the Senior Annual General Meeting attended that convened from time to time on at least Independent Director is available to meeting and it is expected that all board 21days notice or where certain address them.
To that end, both the members will attend the Annual General requirements aremet, including prior Chairman and the Senior Independent Meeting on 25 April 2013 and be approval by shareholders, by way of Director make themselves available, available to meet shareholders.
This special resolution, on 14 days notice.
when requested, for meetings with provides an excellent opportunity, TheAnnual General Meeting gives shareholders on issues relating to the particularly for our private shareholders, shareholders an opportunity to hear groups governance and strategy.
to meet board members and discuss any about the general development of the The groups shareholders are mainly areas of concern with them.
business and to ask questions of the institutional investors, holding 98% of Chairman and, through him, the To facilitate easier voting for those ourissued share capital.
Our shareholder chairmen of the various committees shareholders who hold their shares in engagement strategy is therefore aswell as committee members.
certicated form, we have put in place predominantly focused on these systems to allow voting to be conducted Details of the meeting and the investors.
The Chief Executive Officer electronically through our Registrars resolutions to be proposed together and Chief Financial Officer offer website www.
withexplanatory notes are set out in meetings, through our brokers, to a wide theNotice of Meeting which is sent to range of institutional investors with the The company is committed to increasing shareholders and is available on our objective of meeting major shareholders shareholder value and communicates its website www.
achievements and prospects to its shareholders in an accurate and timely Any shareholder attending the Annual During 2012, 85 separate meetings, manner.
Apart from the Annual General General Meeting has the right to ask including four in Denmark, six in Canada Meeting, the company communicates questions.
Any such question relating and three in the USA, were held with with its shareholders by way of the tothe business will be dealt with at major shareholders.
These meetings were Annual Report and Accounts, interim themeeting, unless, for example, it is attended by either the Chief Executive results announcement in August and undesirable in the interests of the Officer or the Chief Financial Officer or interim management statements in company or the good order of the sometimes both.
These focused primarily Apriland October.
significant matters meeting, to do so or if to do so would on the groups trading operations and the relating to the trading or development involve the disclosure of condential implementation of the groups strategy.
ofthe business are disseminated to the information.
Shareholders attending the Where significant views were expressed, market by way of Stock Exchange meeting are informed of the number of either during or following the meeting via announcements which also appear proxy votes lodged for each resolution.
our brokers, these were recorded and onthe companys website circulated to all directors.
Size of shareholding Number of institutional Issued capital to private % of issued capital and private investors and institutional investors 1 Up to 10,000 1.6% 1 Institutional 645 1 Institutional 97.9% 1 2 2 1 1 3 2 10,001 up to 100,000 4.3% 2 Individual 1,502 2 Individual 2.1% 3 100,000 up to 1 million 18.2% 4 5 4 1 million up to 2 10 million 44.2% 5 10 million 31.7% Berendsen plc Report and 64 Accounts 2012 Corporate governance statement Activities in 2012 Board committees Nomination committee report k Recruitment of Lucy Dimes: Iain Ferguson chairman The three principal During 2012, the committee k Ensured further development in committees of the board are themanagement succession and has focused on recruiting a the nomination committee, development plans for executive new non-executive director the audit committee and the board and senior executives: following Christopher remuneration committee.
k Reviewed diversity throughout the Kemball stepping down from group in terms of gender, nationality the board.
I am delighted with and ethnicity.
the quality of candidates we Following Christopher Kemball stepping saw and welcome Lucy Dimes down from the board in April 2012, the to the Berendsen board committees main activity has involved the selection and appointment of a new non-executive director.
The committee reviewed the skills, experience and diversity of the board and concluded that candidates should be currently running a complex multinational business with significant senior management experience in operations Members in 2012: or sales and marketing.
Taking into Christopher Kemball account these requirements a detailed chairman until 30 April 2012 candidate specication including expected time commitment was Iain Ferguson prepared.
Following interviews with chairman from 1 May 2012 three recruitment consultants, Spencer Lucy Dimes from 1 June 2012 Stuart was retained to conduct the David Lowden search.
The committee interviewed a Per Utnegaard number of potential candidates before Peter Ventress advising the board to appoint Lucy Dimes.
Prior to her appointment, the Andrew Wood board satisfied itself that Lucy Dimes fully met the independence criteria set Composition out in the Code and ensured, by making contact with her employer, that she was The nomination committee met fully able to commit to the role and threetimes during 2012 once in April, provide the required time to carry out JuneandDecember to consider the her duties.
Details of Lucy Dimes other appointment of a new non-executive commitments are detailed on page 53. director.
As at 31December 2012, four During 2012, Spencer Stuart also assisted ofthe six members of the committee the group with the recruitment of were considered by the board to aCountry Manager in Germany and beindependent.
Functions The nomination committee is responsible for board succession planning and makes recommendations to the board as to the appointment and reappointment of all directors.
It also keeps under review succession planning for senior executives.
The terms of reference of the nomination committee were reviewed and approved by the board in April 2012 and are available on the companys website or upon request from the Company Secretary.
Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 65 Diversity The group provides an induction Audit committee report programme for new audit committee The board strongly supports the need Andrew Wood chairman members and, where required, provides for diversity and inclusion at all levels of 2012 has been another busy ongoing training to enable all the our business and has made this a major committee members to carry out their year for the Berendsen audit objective of our talent management duties.
The induction programme covers programme.
The board is aware of the committee.
The committee the role of the audit committee, its terms recent changes to the Code effective for has kept itself updated with of reference, key issues discussed in the reporting periods from October 2012 changes to the UK Corporate previous 12 months and expected time and has been regularly updated on the commitment by members.
Ongoing Governance Code and will ongoing diversity debate both in the training includes attendance at formal UKand in Europe, specically relating beworking with the board conferences and brieng by external togender and the representation during 2013 to meet the advisers.
During 2012, Lucy Dimes joined ofwomen in the boardrooms of newrequirements the committee.
performed during Q3 2012 by Andrew At Berendsen each new board Wood with the assistance of Kevin Quinn appointment must complement the rest and David Lawler.
of the board in terms of independence, The board requires the audit committee skills, knowledge and experience and we members to have an understanding of: will therefore always appoint on merit judged against objective criteria taking k the principles of, content of, and into account diversity considerations.
developments in financial reporting Members in 2012: The board is aware of the voluntary including the applicable accounting target set by Lord Davies that 25% of Andrew Wood chairman standards and statements of FTSE 100 directors should be female by recommended practice: Lucy Dimes from 1 June 2012 2015 and we will make best endeavours David Lowden k key aspects of the groups operations to achieve this target.
The board will including corporate policies, group Per Utnegaard ensure that each time a director is nancing and systems of internal recruited at Berendsen at least one of control: the short-listed candidates interviewed Composition by the committee is female.
Following k matters that inuence or distort the The audit committee met three times Per Utnegaard stepping down from the presentation of accounts and key board on 30 April 2013, the board will during 2012, in February, August and gures: and December.
All members of the comprise 83% of male and 17% of female k the role of internal and external directors 2011: 100% male.
committee are non-executive directors auditing and risk management.
and all are considered by the board to Further information on our companybeindependent.
wide diversity policy can be found on Functions The Chairman, the Chief Financial page 42.
The audit committees principal function Officer, the Head of Group Internal Audit, is to enable the board to monitor the the Group Risk Manager and senior Focus areas for 2013: integrity of the groups financial reports representatives from the external k Ensure further development in the and to manage the boards relationship auditors and group finance department management succession and with the groups external auditors.
Its attend each meeting at the request of development plans for executive other functions include: reviewing and the committee chairman.
At least once board and senior executives: monitoring the financial reporting each year, the committee meets with the process: the annual audit: the external auditors and the Head of Group k Recruitment of a new non-executive effectiveness of the groups internal Internal Audit without executive director following Per Utnegaard controls: the groups internal audit and management present.
From time to time, stepping down from the board: risk management systems and the the committee chairman also meets in k Monitor diversity throughout our independence of the external auditor private session with the Head of Group operations in terms of gender, and the provision of non-audit services.
Internal Audit and the external auditors, nationality and ethnicity.
again without any other member of The audit committee is required to management being present.
report its findings to the board, identifying any matters on which it The board considers that the committee considers that action or improvement is chairman has sufficient recent and needed and to make recommendations relevant financial experience to on the steps to be taken.
Andrew Wood is a Chartered Management Accountant and was Group Finance Director of two FTSE 250 listed companies for over 15 years: he is also chairman of the audit committee for Air Partner plc and Lavendon Group plc.
Berendsen plc Report and 66 Accounts 2012 Corporate governance statement Committee meeting date Key items 17 February k Received an update from the Chief Financial k Reviewed six monthly update on the group Officer on the key accounting judgement Whistleblowing system areas for 2011 year end accounts k Reviewed the schedule of key controls which k Reviewed the significant issues in relation documents how key risks are managed tothe financial statements of goodwill k Met with the Head of Group Internal Audit impairment and provision for future losses without management being present onUK decontamination contracts k Reviewed the committees performance k Reviewed the report from external auditors on their key findings from the 2011 year end audit k Reviewed the preliminary results and draft announcement k Received update reports from the Head ofGroup Internal Audit and Group RiskManager k Approved the 2012 Risk Management Plan 17 August k Received an update from the Chief Financial k Reviewed six monthly update on group Officer on the keyaccounting judgement Whistleblowing system areas for the six months to 30 June 2012 k Reviewed the effectiveness of the k Reviewed the significant issues in relation groupsinternal controls and related tothe financial statements disclosures made in the annual report andfinancial statements: k Reviewed the report from external auditors on their key findings from their review of k Received update reports from the Head theinterim announcement ofGroup Internal Audit and Group RiskManager k Reviewed the half year announcement k Discussed the strategy, scope and fees for 2012 for the external auditor k Reviewed the external auditors non-audit fees k Discussed the upcoming changes to pensionaccounting IAS 19, effective from1January 2013 12 December k Agreed the 2013 programme of work for k Monitored and reviewed the effectiveness theinternal audit function ofthe groups internal audit function k Received a final 2012 report from the k Received a risk management update on the HeadofGroup Internal Audit on the work progress made throughout 2012 from the undertaken and management responses to Group Risk Manager proposals made in the audit reports issued during the year k Undertook an assessment of the qualifications, expertise and resources and independence ofthe external auditor and theeffectiveness of the audit process k Approved the 2012 external audit fees k Reviewed group delegated authorities Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 67 The committees terms of reference were The audit committee receives regular The committee, as part of its annual reviewed and approved by the board in reports on internal audit activity and evaluation, reviews and considers the February 2012.
They include all relevant monitors the status of internal audit effectiveness of the external audit matters required by Section 7.1.
This evaluation includes an Disclosure and Transparency Rules and reviews annually the adequacy, assessment of the external auditors the Code and are available on the qualifications and experience of the qualifications, expertise, resources companys website or on request from groups internal audit resources and andindependence.
The committees the Company Secretary.
thenature and scope of internal audit assessment is informed by senior activity in the context of the groups risk management providing feedback Internal audit management system set out on pages ontheexternal audit process and any 33 and 34. comments provided by the Finance The group internal audit function is Director, Head of Group Internal Audit appropriately resourced with the skills External audit and the Company Secretary.
If any and experience relevant to the changes issuesregarding the external audit and operations of the group.
This is The audit committee manages the process are raised throughout the relationship with the external auditor supported by specialist resources where yearincommittee meetings these required.
The Head of Group Internal  LLP on arere-evaluated forconsideration.
This includes Audit is accountable to the audit committee and has access to the conducting annual evaluations of the The audit committee has completed external auditor and providing final itsevaluation of the external auditors committee or its chairman at any time during the year.
The Head of Group recommendations to the board on their forthe year ending 31 December 2012 reappointment, remuneration and other and is satisfied with their level of Internal Audit meets independently with the chairman of the audit committee terms of engagement.
The audit qualification, expertise and resources throughout the year.
committee is satisfied with the auditors and remains confident that they effectiveness and independence and has continue to be independent and conduct An integrated Assurance Framework not considered it necessary to require an the external audit with due objectivity has been embedded within the group independent tender process.
This enables activities conducted by the external effective assurance to be provided in The last competitive audit tender was in auditors have been reviewed and are thekey areas of risk to the business, 2006, when  notconsidered to have affected the aswell as in the areas of core financial LLP was appointed by the board on the auditors independence.
Following the and ITinternal control, and where there recommendation of the audit evaluation, feedback was provided by are regulatory or legal requirements.
Prior to this date and from the committee chairman to the audit Internalaudit is responsible for providing the formation of Berendsen on partnerat  LLP oversight of and being integral to, the 18February 1980 the external audit was and a formal recommendation was assurance framework.
As in 2011, a key performed by  made to the board, for approval by element of the 2012 internal audit activity previously Coopers and Lybrand and shareholders, that the external auditors has been to ensure that there is an BDO Stoy Hayward.
There are no are reappointed and their remuneration appropriate framework of governance contractual obligations that restrict the for the 2013 audit is authorised.
and control for the implementation of audit committees capacity to the group strategic plan.
recommend a particular firm for appointment as auditor.
The committee is aware of the requirement under the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code that the external audit should be put out to tender at least once every ten years.
Berendsen plc Report and 68 Accounts 2012 Corporate governance statement The group follows a pre-approval policy The total sum invoiced to the group by Remuneration for the provision of non-audit services by its external auditor for non-audit services committee report the external auditor which was reviewed provided in 2012 was 0.2 million 2011: Full details of the committees by the audit committee on 19 August 2011.
The total sum invoiced composition, role, authority and activities In most instances, the individual threshold bythem for audit services in respect are set out in the report on directors for the pre-approval of any non-audit ofthe same period was 0.9 million remuneration on pages 69 to 79, which services is 50,000.
will be subject to an advisory vote by firms were used for larger, non-audit shareholders at the Annual General services, including taxation and Financial Reporting and Meeting on 25 April 2013. consultancy advice.
The objective of Significant Financial Judgements maintaining a policy on non-audit services Other information required by the The key financial reporting issues the is to ensure that the provision of such FSAs corporate governance rules committee considered in 2012 were: services does not impair the external Certain information required by the auditors independence or objectivity.
k Goodwill impairment FSAs corporate governance rules set Theexternal auditor cannot be engaged The committee assessed the carrying outor referred to in this corporate to perform any assignment where the value of goodwill based on the future governance statement is contained in output is then subject to their review cash flow projections of the business the Directors report, on pages 80 to 85, asexternal auditor.
Details of services k UK Decontamination Onerous under the headings: Restrictions provided by the auditor and its associates Contract Provision ontransfer of securities in the company: are included in note 3 on page 106.
The committee reviewed the Amendment of Articles of Association: Thefollowing are specifically prohibited: performance and forecasts for the Appointment and replacement of k appraisal or valuation services, North West London and Kent directors: Powers of the directors: fairness opinions or decontamination contracts to assess Substantial shareholdings and Purchase contribution-in-kind reports: the appropriateness of the provision of own shares.
for future losses k broker or dealer, investment adviser By order of the board orinvestment banking services: k Exceptional items The committee reviewed the David Lawler k bookkeeping services related to disclosure of one-off or unusual items Company Secretary accounting records or financial 28 February 2013 statements: k Change in accounting for pensions The impact of the change in k design and implementation of accounting under IAS19, Employee financial information systems: Benefits which became effective from 1 January 2013 k internal audit outsourcing services: k legal and other services unrelated to Focus areas for 2013 the audit: or k Review the significant judgements k management functions including applied in the preparation of the human resources.
Report and Accounts: k Ensure the key risks identified by the board are effectively managed: k Review the independence of the external auditors: k Consider the output from the independent board review of risk management.
