Board of Directors Phil White CBE Mark Allan Joe Lister Richard Simpson Richard Smith Manjit Wolstenholme Richard Walker Sir Tim Wilson Stuart Beevor The Board Executive Non-Executive Andrew Jones 40 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 O Ov ver ervie view w Str Strat ate eg gy y Busi Busin ne ess ss G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiinancial financial Ot Oth he er r re revie view w sta stat temen ements ts inf info or rm ma at tion ion Phil White Richard Smith Richard Walker Chairman Managing Director of Operations Non-Executive Director Age 63 Age 38 Age 47 Committees Experience Committees Remuneration Committee Richard was appointed as Managing Director of Audit Committee Nomination Committee Operations for UNITE in 2011.
His role involves leading Remuneration Committee on the customer service provided to our 40,000 Nomination Committee Experience customers, and managing the maintenance and Phil became Chairman in May 2009.
The majority of his Experience facilities management across the Groups nationwide executive career was spent in the public transport Richard brings strong operational expertise to property portfolio.
Richard joined UNITE as deputy sector, during a period of deregulation and privatisation.
the board, with 18 years of experience of having Chief Financial officer in 2010.
Prior to joining UNITE He was Chief Executive of National Express Group plc the customer at the heart of every decision made.
Richard spent a total of 18 years in the transport from 1997 to 2006, leading the business through He was formerly customer experience director then industry: 13 of which were at National Express Group, considerable growth both in the UK and overseas.
chief operating officer at Talk Talk Telco Arm of where he held a range of senior finance, strategy and Phil is currently Non-Executive Chairman of Kier Group Carphone Warehouse Group and was responsible operations roles in the UK and overseas, including plc, Non-Executive Chairman of Lookers plc and for the customer experience change programme.
group development director and chief financial officer a Non-Executive Director of Stagecoach Group plc.
Prior to this role, Richard was Chief Operating officer North America.
of Carphone Warehouse UK, with responsibility for the Groups 750 UK stores, websites, direct sales and Mark Allan Manjit Wolstenholme insurance services.
Richard was previously European Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Managing Director of Carphone Warehouses Age 40 Age 48 European retail business, operating in 14 countries, Experience and UK Sales Director.
He holds a law degree from Committees Mark was appointed as Chief Executive in September Nottingham University and trained as an accountant Chair of the Audit Committee 2006, following three years as Chief Financial officer.
Remuneration Committee Mark held a variety of other roles in the business prior Nomination Committee to that, having joined the Group in 1999.
Mark has Sir Tim Wilson overall responsibility for the Groups performance Experience Non-Executive Director against its business plan targets, whilst continuing Manjit qualied as a chartered accountant with Age 63 to develop UNITEs growth strategy.
Coopers & Lybrand and has a strong financial and executive background, including roles as chief Committees operating officer of Kleinwort Benson and partner Chairman of the Nomination Committee Joe Lister in corporate finance boutique Gleacher Shacklock, Audit Committee Chief Financial officer before embarking on a career as a non-executive.
She Remuneration Committee Age 41 is chairman for Albany Investment Trust plc and senior Experience Experience independent director and chair of the remuneration Sir Tim was appointed Knight Bachelor for services Joe joined UNITE in 2002.
He was appointed committee of Future plc.
She is also a non-executive to Higher Education and to business in the 2011 as Chief Financial officer in January 2008 having director and chair of audit committee for Provident New Years Honours List.
He is a strong advocate previously held a variety of roles within UNITE, Financial plc.
Manjits skills and experience will support of the role of Universities in economic development including investment director.
Joe is responsible the business as UNITE focuses on growth and and acknowledged as one of the leading thinkers for the Groups nances and investment strategy and extending its market-leading position.
He is the author is responsible for the Company Secretarial function of the  Wilson Review and chairs the Groups Major Investment Approval Stuart Beevor of University-Industry collaboration, published in meetings.
Prior to joining UNITE: Joe qualied as a Non-Executive Director and March 2012.
Formerly vice-chancellor of the University chartered accountant with .
Senior Independent Director of Hertfordshire, he also served on the board of the Age 56 Higher Education Funding Council for England Richard Simpson HEFCE, was deputy chair of the CBI Innovation, Committees Managing Director of Property Science and Technology Committee and a trustee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Age 37 of the Council for Industry and Higher Education Audit Committee CIHE.
He has extensive experience in both UK Experience Nomination Committee and international Higher Education.
Richard is Managing Director of property for UNITE.
Experience Richard sets the strategic direction for all aspects Stuart is an independent consultant with various roles of the property portfolio and oversees the fund Andrew Jones advising clients in real estate fund management, management of UNITEs co-investment vehicles.
Non-Executive Director investment and asset management.
From 2002 to Richard defines the approach for optimising portfolio Age 44 2011 he was Managing Director of Grosvenor Fund performance and develops the UK wide property Management Limited and a member of the board of Committees development plan.
Richard joined UNITE in 2005 and Grosvenor Group Limited, the international property Audit Committee in 2007 was appointed to the role of property director group.
Prior to joining Grosvenor, Stuart was managing Remuneration Committee for the London Business.
He took over responsibility director at Legal & General Property Limited, having Nomination Committee for UK-wide property development in 2009, creating previously held a number of roles dealing with and implementing a growth strategy within London Experience development, investment, property management and other key UK cities.
Prior to his roles in property Andrew Jones is Chief Executive officer and unitised funds at Norwich Union.
Stuart brings development, Richard had a six year career in the of LondonMetric Property, following the recent a knowledge of property investment, property funds British Army.
merger of London & Stamford and Metric.
Andrew was and investor demand that uniquely supports the a co-founder of Metric and was Chief Executive board and the business in its role as a co-investing officer since its inception in March 2010.
previous roles include Executive Director and Head of Retail at British Land.
Andrew joined British Land in 2005 following the acquisition of Pillar Property where he was on the main board with responsibilities for their retail portfolio and the Hercules Unit Trust.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41 Corporate governance Dear Shareholder On the following pages we set out UNITEs Corporate Governance Report, which describes how the principles relating to the role and effectiveness of the Board have been applied.
The report comprises the following sections: t Leadership t How the Board operates t Effectiveness t Investor relations t Audit Committee report t Directors remuneration report t Nomination Committee report Throughout 2012, the Board complied with the principles of best practice set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 the Code.
During 2013, we will continue to comply with the Code, as amended in October 2012.
Phil White Chairman of the Board 6 March 2013 42 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 O Ov ver ervie view w Str Strat ate eg gy y Bu Busi sin ne ess ss G Gove over rn na an nc ce e Financial Financial Ot Oth he er r re revie view w sta stat temen ements ts inf info or rm ma at tion ion LEADERSHIP Board structure Set out below is an outline of the governance structure of UNITE.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee UNITE Board Health and Safety Committee UNITE UNITE Risk Operations Property Committee Board Board Composition and appointments The composition of the Board during 2012 is set out in the table on p. 45.
The Board currently consists of the Chairman, four Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
With effect from the beginning of 2012, Richard Simpson and Richard Smith were appointed as Executive Directors with the roles of Managing Director Property and Managing Director Operations respectively.
On 17 May 2012, Nigel Hall, previously Chairman of the Audit Committee, stood down from the Board, having by then served for nine years as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Andrew Jones was appointed to the Board as an additional Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 February 2013.
At the annual general meeting of the Company, which has been convened for 16 May 2013 the annual general meeting, Stuart Beevor currently chair of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director, will retire from the Board having, by then, served nine years in ofce.
Stuart will be replaced by Richard Walker as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and by Manjit Wolstenholme as Senior Independent Director.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, each of the current Directors, other than Stuart Beevor, offers himself herself for re-election at the annual general meeting.
Brief biographies of all the Directors are set out on p. 41.
Following the individual performance evaluations of each of the Non-Executive Directors seeking re-election other than Andrew Jones who, as stated above, was only appointed on 1 February 2013, it is confirmed that the performance of each of the relevant individuals continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43
