Financial review continued t UCC's existing senior debt facility of 227 million, provided UNITEs share of proceeds from UCCs disposal programme: using by a syndicate of lenders headed by HSH Nordbank, matures its performance fee to acquire units: and selling a recently completed in September 2014 and will need to be replaced with a new facility.
property at open market value to LSAV.
We intend to have the replacement facility arranged and in place If UNITEs stake in UCC reaches 50% before 31 December 2016, during 2013. then UCC will merge with LSAV by way of a unit for unit exchange UNITE's UCC performance fee will become payable on the later at NAV.
In the event that UNITEs stake does not reach 50% before of 31March 2013 and the successful renancing of the HSH debt that date then UCC will continue as a separate vehicle.
This performance fee is expected to be worth between The establishment of LSAV and extension of UCC was an important 5 million and 8 million, although no value is currently reected step for UNITE and is consistent with our objectives of growing in the Groups accounts.
recurring earnings, undertaking accretive development activity without London Student Accommodation Vehicle LSAV stretching the Group's balance sheet and reducing leverage over time.
LSAV is a new joint venture between UNITE and GIC, alongside It is expected to be accretive to both UNITEs earnings and NAV whilst UCC.
Both UNITE and GIC have a 50% stake and LSAV has the also delivering a modest reduction in the Group's leverage.
same maturity date as UCC September 2022.
It is the primary OCB vehicle through which UNITE will undertake development activity The Oasis Capital Bank joint venture matures in August 2014 and in London and has a right of first refusal over UNITEs London we are continuing to work with our joint venture partner to determine development projects until such time as its capital investment the most appropriate strategy for the JV, now that the assets are targets are met.
LSAV acquired North Lodge from UNITE in November 2012 OCBs total return in 2012 was -14.4%, reecting a reduction in asset for 46 million and has committed to acquire Stratford 1 values.
The three assets in the joint venture are in Zone 2 locations when completed on a forward commitment basis for 83 million.
that have seen new supply enter the market and rents, as a result, The consideration payable for each asset is subject to a - 10% have come under pressure.
The returns since the inception of the adjustment after two years of operation depending on joint venture remain positive at an average 11.6% per annum.
We expect OCB to sell their stake in the joint venture during the LSAV also plans to invest approximately 330 million in London 2013 14 academic year.
We intend to retain our stake and development activity over the coming years, equivalent to between management role going forward although this is subject to the 3,500 and 4,000 new bed spaces.
UNITE's share of LSAV planned arrangement of an alternative vehicle that meets our strategic development capital expenditure will be 165 million, which is objectives.
In the event that this does not occur then we would be expected to be invested over the period 2013 to 2017 by which likely to sell our stake alongside OCB and reinvest the proceeds time all projects are expected to be operational at anticipated elsewhere in our London portfolio, most probably by increasing leverage of 65% loan-to-cost.
The first LSAV development our stake in UCC.
project, Angel Lane Stratford, was secured in late 2012.
UNITE Student Village USV UNITE and GIC can agree to extend the development programme by In January 2012 we completed the acquisition of the remaining a further 200 million once the existing capital has been committed.
49% interest in USV, owned by a subsidiary of Lehman Brothers Potential merger of UCC and LSAV on favourable terms adding 2.5 million of NAV and 1 million UNITE has an opportunity to increase its stake in UCC from 30% of annualised NPC.
to 50% by the end of 2016 and UNITE and GIC have agreed that this can be achieved by one or more of the following options: applying Funds and joint ventures UNITE share Property Other Adjusted Adjusted of adjusted Total UNITE Vehicle Assets Net debt assets LTV NAV NAV return Maturity share USAF 1,320 572 23 43% 725 119 14.2% Innite 16% UCC 381 214 9 56% 158 47 14.8% 2022 30% LSAV 50 22 2 44% 26 13 n a 2022 50% OCB 175 105 4 60% 66 16 14.4 % 2014 25% 34 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Business Governance Financial Other review statements information efficient, paperless procedures In 2012 we equipped all of our city teams with mobile working devices enabling room inspections to be completed at a touch of a button.
This means less paperwork for our employees, more efficient management of the process, as well as improving the customer service we provide through greater transparency.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35 Student accommodation market review Student intake for 2012 13 fell by 54,000, largely as a result of t Penalties for over-recruitment of students subject to number various Government policy changes, representing a 12% drop in controls ie excluding the uncapped pool have been relaxed.
However, as a result of increased intake Universities will now be permitted to over-recruit by 3% of their in earlier years the overall student population was broadly static as allocation without financial penalty whereas in 2012 13 Universities the larger number of returning students offset the decline in first were at risk of being ned for exceeding student number controls.
We expect this to remove some of the caution Universities have previously exercised when deciding upon the number of offers to The factors contributing to the drop in intake were as follows: make to prospective students and it should therefore translate into improved recruitment levels.
A 3% increase in the controlled student t A permanent reduction in the number of Government-funded numbers pool is equivalent to approximately 10,000 students places 15,000 t Up to 5,000 additional University places will be made available, t An increase in the number of deferred acceptances back to normal to be allocated exibly.
levels from a very low base in 2011 16,000 In addition to the above measures, the number of deferred t A number of policy-related implications that resulted in a mismatch acceptances should return to normal levels and this should contribute between the demand for and supply of particular University places a further 15,000 increase.
From an accommodation perspective these factors led to higher The only remaining area of uncertainty in Government policy relates than expected voids across the sector in those cities where to non-EU student visa regulation, where increased restrictions have Universities experienced a decline in numbers and existing supply been introduced in recent years.
However, recent developments levels are relatively high.
In the main, this was the big northern cities suggest that the political rhetoric is moving in favour of the sector Leeds, Shefeld and Manchester and also Wales where UNITE with a much clearer appreciation amongst ministers that student does not have a presence.
Conversely some towns and cities saw immigration should be considered separately from general very strong levels of occupancy all of Scotland, Bristol and immigration and could be a significant driver of economic growth.
Against this backdrop it is encouraging that This segment of the market still has the potential to grow very strongly we achieved 96% occupancy and 3% rental growth, reecting the although in the near term we expect this to be slightly tempered as quality of our portfolio.
The outlook for 2013 14 student intake is considerably more positive, Market outlook following supportive policy announcements and solid growth in the We believe that the above changes should translate into an increase number of applications.
On 30 January UCAS released the applications data for 2013 14 New supply has been focused in London for 2013 14 from a small conrming a 3.5% increase on 2012 13.
Taking into account the number of new entrants to the sector, although there is some regional increased applications and likely number of available University places activity as well.
The pipeline of new beds is estimated to be 9,500, of we anticipate that there will be at least 180,000 unplaced applicants which 4,000 are in London.
Taking into account these new beds and for the next academic year 2012: 188,000.
Given this heavily the anticipated increase in number of students in 2013, the net over-subscribed position it is clear that the process for allocating positive demand supply movement is expected to be approximately student places will be a far more important determinant of final 18,000.
These movements underpin our expectation that rental student intake than initial applications.
Recently announced changes growth for 2013 14 will be in line with recent years.
to the funding and admissions process are encouraging in this regard.
The main new measures announced were as follows: t There will be no restriction on the number of students achieving ABB grades or better at A-level or equivalent that Universities can recruit.
In 2012 13, this unrestricted pool was limited only to those achieving AAB or above.
We estimate that this change will increase the size of this uncapped pool from 79,000 to approximately 120,000.
Stronger Universities should be well positioned to benefit from this change 36 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Business Governance Financial Other review statements information Innovative transaction UNITE sold its leasehold interest in New Carnegie Court to PRUPIM for 33 million, representing a net initial yield of 5.5%.
The sale was achieved following extensive work to restructure the underlying ownership and new 25 year lease granted to the University of Aberdeen.
The transaction was win-win-win for all parties.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37 Risk management 0VS BQQSPBDI UP JEFOUJGZJOH FWBMVBUJOH BOE BWPJEJOH PS NJUJHBUJOH UIF JNQBDU of risks to UNITE is at the core of our business model.
Risks are reviewed regularly BU CVTJOFTT VOJU BOE SPVQ #PBSE NFFUJOHT BOE BSF DFOUSBM UP PVS TUSBUFHJD QMBOOJOH BOE EBZ UP EBZ PQFSBUJPOT 0VS QSJODJQBM SJTLT BSF IJHIMJHIUFE JO XIJUF Risk and Impact Mitigation Change Commentary Operations risks Major Health and Safety H&S incident Group H&S committee set up to oversee H&S is a primary focus and good progress in property, development site or ofce.
Reviewed made enhancing and embedding across monthly by Board.
Head of H&S auditing Reputational damage and undertaken on all our properties existing processes and procedures and impact to students living with us.
New Head of H&S appointed aims to further embed these approaches.
Property development risks Failure to secure sites, construction Skilled development team and strong Development pipeline of over 2,500 beds contracts and or development debt reputation.
Focus on off-market secured: good progress with planning at attractive prices.
Unable to generate returns in line with plans.
Failure or delays in obtaining planning Established planning expertise and Skilled Development team with strong track consents.
Strong relationships with planning investment in schemes carefully authorities, particularly in London.
Focus on Cost of aborted schemes.
Delayed managed prior to grant of planning.
Pursuing new opportunities on a conditional basis to ensure we retain adequate exibility.
Delays in completion of construction Strong track record and focus on project All 2012 13 schemes delivered to time in time for the start of academic year delivery and strong relationships with and cost.
No schemes in 2013 14 and or cost over-runs.
construction partners with appropriate 2014 15 projects all on track.
Reduced financial returns and cash tied up.
Impact on reputation with customers.
Fund management Ability to deliver strategy of both Dedicated Fund Directors responsible Strong performance by USAF the Funds JVs and the Group.
for managing the performance of each and co-investment vehicles.
Any potential conicts are Loss of investor confidence and or Open, straightforward communications managed through Group Risk potential deadlock.
with USAF Advisory Committee and Committee.
Joint ventures mature without agreement Work closely with joint venture partners Extension of UCC and establishment for a satisfactory exit.
to agree mutually beneficial extension of LSAV shows alignment with GIC.
Forced sales of properties USV joint venture brought back on potentially impacting price.
OCB strategy now in place.
Loss of market position in affected cities.
38 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 O Ov ver ervie view w Str Strat ate eg gy y Busi Busin ne ess ss G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiinancial financial Ot Oth he er r re revie view w sta stat temen ements ts inf info or rm ma at tion ion Risk and Impact Mitigation Change Commentary Financing Adverse interest rate movements.
Hedge exposure with interest 88% of debt now at xed rate swapped.
Average cost of debt reduced during 2012 from 5.7% to 5.5%.
Expiring debt facilities cannot be Management of debt maturity.
Control Completion of new facility with Legal & replaced or only at high cost.
of future cash commitments in line with General and the retail bond issue provide progress of disposals and renancing.
evidence of availability of funds and create Possible forced sale of assets funding headroom.
potentially leading to sales below Renance 6-12 months before maturity.
Regular monitoring of covenant position.
significant level of headroom in both LTV and ICR covenants.
Debt becomes Proactive management of any potential immediately repayable.
issues and ability to use cash to manage covenants.
Market Risks Changes in Government policy may UNITE focus and strategy: Applications to study in 2013 14 affect student numbers and behaviour.
applications show 3.5% rise on t supply demand imbalance 2012 13 numbers and a number of policy significant volume of new entrants leads t exposure to best Universities mechanisms have been announced which to over-supply in certain markets.
suggest 25,000-30,000 more students t more afuent customer base including will be studying next year.
May reduce demand and hence overseas students profitability and asset values.
t strong sales and marketing expertise Underlying demand for HE in the UK remains extremely strong.
t development of affordable product t exible approach to tenancies.
Occupancy of 96% achieved in year of market disruption.
Property markets are cyclical and Forecast rental growth and recurring Maximising portfolio value through performance depends on general profit offsets any yield movement.
programme of refurbishments economic conditions.
Clear and active asset Reduction in asset values reducing management strategy.
Risk of further recession or Select nancially robust Development pipeline still on track: Eurozone break-up causing possible construction partners.
no issues with construction partners.
failure of construction contractor, Focus on major University cities with Continue to diversify sources University or bank.
at least two high quality institutions.
Cost to the business of dealing Build strong relationships with banks with failure, damage to market.
Change in patterns of study through UK Universities retain a global appeal Increased number of overseas students the enhanced use of technology.
Continued growth living with UNITE.
Reduced demand for student Operational platform supports more accommodation resulting in lower UNITE focus on strongest Universities.
Market knowledge and University relationships.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39
