O Ov ver ervie view w Str Strat ate eg gy y Bu Busi sin ne ess ss G Gove over rn na an nc ce e Financial Financial Ot Oth he er r re revie view w sta stat temen ements ts inf info or rm ma at tion ion The corporate element of the bonus has been calculated on a sliding scale up to a maximum of 120% of base salary, in accordance with which 'on target' performance by the Group would have resulted in a corporate bonus of an amount equivalent to 70% of base salary.
Prior to 2012, 'on target' performance by the Group would have resulted in a corporate bonus of an amount equivalent to 75% of base salary.
To determine the actual bonus payment to an Executive Director, a multiplier being the 'individual' element of the scheme, ranging between zero and 1.2 is applied against the corporate bonus.
That multiplier is determined following the Performance Development Programme review of each Executive Director which is carried out at the start and end of the year, and reects the strength of that Directors individual performance over the course of the bonus plan year.
Applying the maximum individual multiplier of 1.2, against the maximum corporate bonus of 120% of base salary, results in a maximum annual performance related bonus opportunity of 144% of base salary.
However, bonus payments at that level would only be made subject to the achievement of extremely stretching corporate performance targets and exceptional individual performance by the relevant Director.
The performance related bonuses awarded in respect of 2012 reect corporate bonuses calculated in accordance with the sliding scale referred to above, of 83% of base salary.
That percentage was arrived at as a result of the Group having achieved its stretch targets in relation to customer satisfaction and operating cashow: having modestly outperformed its NAV gearing target: having achieved its targets for employee satisfaction and NAV: and having marginally missed its target for NPC.
After applying their individual multipliers, actual performance related bonus payments awarded to the Executive Directors range between 83% and 91.3% of their respective base salaries.
Mark Allan and Joe Lister, having already reached their share ownership guidelines will receive 100% of their bonus awards in cash.
Richard Simpson and Richard Smith will each receive 50% of their bonus awards by way of a deferred allocation of shares through the Companys ESOT.
Annual bonus for 2013 Some minor changes have been made to the 2013 bonus scheme to improve alignment of the annual bonus with the business strategy: t The NPC measure has been replaced by an Adjusted earnings measure.
Adjusted earnings is a recognised profit measure for real estate companies and is more closely aligned than NPC to the profit attributable to shareholders t The NAV gearing measure has been replaced with a see through LTV gearing measure, on the basis that LTV gearing is now the Groups primary measure of gearing t The Employee Satisfaction measure has been removed and the weighting for Customer Satisfaction increased to 25%, maintaining the same balance between financial and non-financial measures and reecting the Committees view of the importance of improving customer satisfaction and advocacy.
Long Term Incentives The current LTIP was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 19 May 2011 the 2011 LTIP, and replaced the LTIP adopted in 2005 the 2005 LTIP.
Key aspects of the 2011 LTIP, which is designed to support the delivery of the strategic plan, are as follows: t The LTIP is delivered through two new share plans The UNITE Group plc 2011 Performance Share Plan the PSP and The UNITE Group plc 2011 Approved Employee Share Option Scheme the ESOS t The individual limit is 150% of annual base salary although, in exceptional circumstance for example for new hires, awards of up to 200% of annual base salary may be made.
Awards for participants below Board level will not normally exceed 100% of annual base salary t Awards made under the PSP will have a performance period of at least three years and a minimum vesting period of three years.
Vesting of awards may, at the discretion of the Committee, be deferred in whole or in part for a period of up to two years following the end of a three year vesting period.
The awards made to the Executive Directors in 2012 will vest as to two thirds after three years and one third after four years to the extent the performance conditions have been achieved over the three year performance period.
Awards made to participants other than the Executive Directors will vest as to 100% after three years to the extent the performance conditions have been achieved t The performance measures applied for awards made in 2011 and 2012 are NPC, NAV and Total Shareholder Return TSR.
NPC is an important measure of the long term success and profitability of the Group, whilst NAV per share remains a relevant performance measure for the Group as the key balance sheet metric.
Relative TSR is also considered to remain the best measure to capture creation of shareholder value and reward management performance in comparison with the Companys peers t The ESOS, which operates as a HMRC approved Company Share Option Plan, is used in conjunction with the PSP to deliver a proportion of an award under the New LTIP in a tax efficient manner on a fair value exchange basis.
Awards made under the ESOS are subject to the same performance conditions as those of the PSP t Clawback will apply on unvested LTIP shares in the events of gross misconduct, material misstatement, if a mistake has been made in calculating vesting for a previous award or in any other circumstance that the Remuneration Committee considers appropriate.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57 Directors' remuneration report continued The LTIP awards made to the Executive Directors in 2011 will vest as follows: Measure Weighting Targets 0% vesting below 9m: 25% vesting for 9m: Net Portfolio Contribution NPC in 2013 1 3 100% vesting for 20m or more: Straight line vesting between these points 0% vesting below 7% p. a. : 25% vesting for 7% p. a. : NAV per share growth 1 3 100% vesting for 13% p. a. or more: Straight line vesting between these points 0% vesting if Group underperforms Index: 25% vesting for matching Index: Relative TSR outperformance of the FTSE350 Real Estate 1 3 Super Sector Index 100% vesting for outperforming Index by 9% p. a. : Straight line vesting between these points The LTIP awards made to the Executive Directors in 2012 will vest as follows: Measure Weighting Targets 0% vesting below 23.5m: 25% vesting for 23.5m: Net Portfolio Contribution NPC in 2014 1 3 100% vesting for 31.5m or more: Straight line vesting between these points 0% vesting below 6% p. a. : 25% vesting for 6% p. a. : NAV per share growth 1 3 100% vesting for 12% p. a. or more: Straight line vesting between these points 0% vesting if Group underperforms Index: 25% vesting for matching Index: Relative TSR outperformance of the FTSE350 Real Estate 1 3 Super Sector Index 100% vesting for outperforming Index by 9% p. a. : Straight line vesting between these points NPC, NAV and TSR will continue to be the performance measures adopted in relation to the LTIP awards to be made in 2013.
Targets will be set at the time awards are granted and the Committee will ensure that they are no less stretching than those for previous LTIP cycles.
The Committee intends to review the performance measure, particularly the possibility of replacing NPC with Adjusted earnings, in future years.
The incentive plans under which awards were made prior to 2011 are the 2005 LTIP and The UNITE Group plc Unapproved Share Option Scheme the Unapproved Scheme.
None of the awards made under the 2005 LTIP prior to the 2009 awards vested and no options have been granted to Directors under the Unapproved Scheme since 2004.
In relation to the awards made under in 2009 under the 2005 LTIP, vesting occurred in April 2012.
The level of vesting for the awards was subject, in equal measures, to the NAV and TSR performance of the Company over the three year measurement period.
With NAV of 318p per share having been achieved as at 31 December 2011, that resulted in 64.1% of that element of the award vesting whilst, with the Company having been placed fourth in its peer group in terms of TSR performance over the measurement period, 100% of that element of the award vested.
Taking account the liability of award holders for employers national insurance, net vesting prior to deductions to cover income tax and employees national insurance was at 74.5%.
Awards made in 2010 under the 2005 LTIP are due to vest in April 2013.
For Mark Allan and Joe Lister, the level of vesting is again subject in equal measures to the NAV and TSR performance of the Company over the three year measurement period.
For award holders who were not Executive Directors at the time of grant including Richard Simpson, the level of vesting is subject to the NAV, TSR and NPC performance of the Company in equal measures.
With the Company having achieved NAV of 350p per share as at 31 December 2012, that will result in 52.6% of that element of the awards vesting and, with NPC of 19.1 million having been achieved in 2012, that will result in 100% of that element of the awards vesting.
The extent to which the TSR element of the awards will vest will not be known until April 2013.
However, based on performance to 31 December 2012, it is not anticipated that any of this element will vest.
58 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
