74 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Statutory and corporate governance information purchases of its own shares if the purchase has first been Corporate governance statement authorised by a resolution of the Company.
At the AGM in July 2011, shareholders renewed the Boards Corporate governance authority to allot ordinary shares and to repurchase ordinary Throughout the year, the Company complied with the shares on behalf of the Company subject to certain limits.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code Atthe AGM in July 2011, shareholders authorised the Board published by the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010. to repurchase B shares on behalf of the Company subject to certain limits.
Details of the authorities which the Board will The Companys approach to be seeking at the 2012 AGM are set out in the 2012 Notice ofAGM.
corporate governance The Company has a policy of seeking to comply with The Articles of Association also specifically empower the established best practice in the field of corporate governance.
Board to exercise the Companys powers to borrow money The Board has adopted core values and global policies which and to mortgage or charge the Companys assets and any set out the behaviour expected of staff in their dealings with uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities.
shareholders, customers, colleagues, suppliers and others The Board determines matters including financial strategy who engage with the Company.
The values which employees and planning and takes major business decisions.
The Board are expected to display were refreshed during the year.
has put in place an organisational structure.
This is further described under the heading internal control.
The Boards responsibilities and processes The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall Attendance at Board and management of the Group and may exercise all the powers Committee Meetings of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys Articles of Association and any directions The table below shows the number of scheduled meetings given by special resolution of the shareholders.
The Articles attended by Directors during the year to 31 March 2012 and, of Association empower the Board to offer, allot, grant in brackets, the number of such meetings they were eligible options over or otherwise deal with or dispose of the to attend.
In addition to these meetings a number of ad hoc Companys shares as the Board may decide.
The Companies meetings were held to deal with specific items as they arose.
Act 2006 authorises the Company to make market Audit and Brand and Compliance Nominations Remuneration Valuations Values Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Total meetings held 6 4 4 6 3 3 Number attended: Sir Adrian Montague 6 6 4 4 3 3 3 3 M J Queen 6 6 4 4 3 3 3 3 1 S A Borrows 3 3 J S Wilson 6 6 3 3 2 J M Allan 0 0 1 1 J P Asquith 6 6 4 4 4 4 6 6 3 A R Cox 6 6 3 4 4 4 5 5 R H Meddings 6 6 4 4 4 4 W Mesdag 6 6 4 4 6 6 3 3 4 C J M Morin-Postel 1 1 1 1 5 M G Verluyten 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 Appointed to the Board on 17 October 2011.
3 Appointed to Remuneration Committee on 6 July 2011.
5 Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2012, and to the Nominations Committee and Audit and Compliance Committee on 1 February 2012.
Overview Strategy, Business Business review Risk Corporate Governance Financial statements Portfolio and other model and KPIs responsibility information 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 75 Matters reserved for the Board Information The Board has approved a formal schedule of matters Reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a timely reserved to it and its duly authorised Committees for manner in preparation for Board and committee meetings.
These include: These papers are supplemented by information specifically requested by the Directors from time to time.
approval of the Groups overall strategy, strategic plan and annual operating budget: Performance evaluation approval of the Companys half-yearly and annual financial During the year, the Board conducted its annual evaluation statements and changes in the Groups accounting policies ofits own performance and that of its committees and or practices: individual Directors.
The evaluation process in the year to changes relating to the capital structure of the Company 31March 2012 was conducted internally by the Chairman orits regulated status: with the assistance of the Company Secretary.
The results major capital projects: ofthis years evaluation process were reported to and major changes in the nature of business operations: discussed by the Board.
investments and divestments in the ordinary course The Board performance evaluation included consideration ofbusiness above certain limits set by the Board from ofthe overall functioning of the Board.
Particular topics timetotime: considered included: the optimum balance of attendance at Board meetings by managers below Board level, the balance adequacy of internal control systems: of Board agendas, the adoption of a regular calendar of Board appointments to the Board and the Leadership Team: presentations and briefings, enhancements to the structure principal terms and conditions of employment of members and content of Board packs, monitoring by non-executive of the Leadership Team: and Directors of investment approvals at Investment Committee, changes in employee share schemes and other long-term and increased portfolio company and investment team visits.
The Board evaluation process also included consideration of the size, balance and composition of the Board including its Matters delegated by the Board to management include diversity, including as to gender.
Theevaluation process was implementation of the Board approved strategy, day-to-day valuable in enabling Directors toidentify a number of areas operation of the business, the appointment and remuneration where its working practices could usefully be developed.
of all executives below the Leadership Team and the formulation and execution of risk management policies In his role as Senior Independent Director, Mr R H Meddings andpractices.
led a review by the Directors of the performance of the Chairman and subsequently reported back to the Board.
A succession and contingency plan for executive leadership is prepared by management and reviewed periodically bytheBoard.
The purpose of this plan is to identify suitable The roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive candidates for succession to key senior management and Senior Independent Director positions, agree their training and development needs, The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the andensure the necessary human resources are in place Board and the Chief Executive is clearly defined and has been forthe Company to meet its objectives.
Meetings of the Board The Chairman The principal matters considered by the Board during the year The Chairman leads the Board in the determination of in addition to matters formally reserved to the Board included: itsstrategy and in the achievement of its objectives.
TheChairman is responsible for organising the business the strategic plan, budget and financial resources: ofthe Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its regular reports from the Chief Executive: agenda.
The Chairman has no involvement in the day-to-day regular reports from the Boards committees: business of the Group.
The Chairman facilitates the effective the recommendations of the Valuations Committee contribution of non-executive Directors and constructive onvaluations of investments: relations between executive and non-executive Directors.
The Chairman ensures that regular reports from the the business model and its application by different Companys brokers are circulated to the non-executive business lines: Directors to enable non-executive Directors to remain aware the creation of a Brand and Values Committee: of shareholders views.
The Chairman ensures effective independence of non-executive Directors: and communication with the Companys shareholders.
the portfolio company management process.
76 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Statutory and corporate governance information The Boards discussions, and its approval of the Groups The Chief Executive strategic plan and annual budget, provide the non-executive The Chief Executive has direct charge of the Group on a Directors with the opportunity to contribute to and validate day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the managements plans and assist in the development of financial and operational performance of the Group.
The non-executive Directors receive regular Chief Executive has formed a committee called Leadership management accounts, reports and information which Team to enable him to carry out the responsibilities enable them to scrutinise the Companys and managements delegated to him by the Board.
The Committee comprises performance against agreed objectives.
MrM J Queen, Mr S A Borrows, Mrs J S Wilson, Mr M A Antal, Mr K J Dunn, Mr A C B Giddins, Mr J R Ghose, Ms C M Hogg, Directors independence Mr P Waller and Mr G A R Zarzavatdjian.
The Committee meets on a regular basis to consider operational matters All the non-executive Directors other than the Chairman, andthe implementation of the Groups strategy.
who was independent on appointment were considered bythe Board to be independent for the purposes of the Code in the year to 31 March 2012.
Senior Independent Director Mr R H Meddings has served as Senior Independent Director The Board assesses and reviews the independence of since October 2010, to whom, in accordance with the Code, eachof the non-executive Directors at least annually, concerns can be conveyed.
havingregard to the potential relevance and materiality ofaDirectors interests and relationships rather than applying rigid criteria in a mechanistic manner.
No Director Directors was materially interested in any contract or arrangement The Board comprises the Chairman, five independent subsisting during or at the end of the financial period that non-executive Directors and three executive Directors.
was significant in relation to the business of the Company.
Biographical details for each of the Directors are set out intheBoard of Directors and Leadership Team section.
Directors employment contracts SirAdrian Montague served as Chairman and a Director throughout the year under review.
Mr J P Asquith, MrARCox, Details of executive Directors employment contracts are set Mr R H Meddings, Mr W Mesdag, Mr M J Queen and out in the Directors remuneration report.
Mrs J S Wilson served as Directors throughout the year under review.
Mr S A Borrows and Ms M G Verluyten Training and development servedas Directors from 17 October 2011 and 1 January The Company has developed a training policy which provides 2012 respectively.
Mr J M Allan and Mme C J M Morin-Postel aframework within which training for Directors is planned served as Directors until 30 April 2011 and 6 July 2011 withthe objective of ensuring Directors understand the duties respectively.
and responsibilities of being a director of a listed company.
All Directors are required to update their skills and maintain In addition to fulfilling their legal responsibilities as their familiarity with the Company and its business continually.
Directors, non-executive Directors are expected to bring Presentations on different aspects of the Companys business anindependent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, are made regularly to the Board.
Onappointment, all nonperformance, resources and standards of conduct, and executive Directors have discussions with the Chairman and tohelp the Board provide the Company with effective the Chief Executive following which appropriate briefings on the leadership.
They are also expected to ensure high standards responsibilities of Directors, the Companys business and the of financial probity on the part of the Company and to monitor Companys procedures are arranged.
The Company provides the effectiveness of the executive Directors.
Directors opportunities for non-executive Directors to obtain a thorough areexpected to make available sufficient time to meet understanding of the Companys business by meeting therequirements of the appointment.
The average time members of the senior management team whointurn commitment for a non-executive Director is expected to arrange, as required, visits to investment orsupportteams.
bearound 15 days a year together with additional time forserving on the Boards committees.
The Company has procedures for Directors to take independent legal or other professional advice about the performance of their duties.
Overview Strategy, Business Business review Risk Corporate Governance Financial statements Portfolio and other model and KPIs responsibility information 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 77 The Boards committees Remuneration Committee The Board is assisted by various standing committees of the The Remuneration Committee comprises Mr J P Asquith Board which report regularly to the Board.
The membership Chairman from 9 May 2011, Mr A R Cox and Mr W Mesdag, of these committees is regularly reviewed by the Board.
all of whom served throughout the year, save for Mr A R Cox When considering committee membership and chairmanship, who served from 6 July 2011.
Mr J M Allan stepped the Board aims to ensure that undue reliance is not placed on downasChairman of the Committee on 30 April 2011. particular Directors.
MmeCJ M Morin-Postel served as a member of the Committee until 6July 2011.
All the current members of These committees all have clearly defined terms of reference.
theCommittee are independent non-executive Directors.
The terms of reference of the Audit and Compliance Committee, the Remuneration Committee andthe The work of the Remuneration Committee is described Nominations Committee are available at www.
The terms of reference provide that noone other than the particular committee chairman and members may attend a Nominations Committee meeting unless invited to attend by the relevant committee.
The Nominations Committee comprises Sir Adrian Montague Chairman, Mr M J Queen, Mr J P Asquith, Mr A R Cox, Audit and Compliance Committee MrRHMeddings, Mr W Mesdag and Ms M G Verluyten, all of The Audit and Compliance Committee comprises whom served throughout the year, save for Ms M G Verluyten MrRHMeddings Chairman, Mr J P Asquith, Mr A R Cox and who served from 1 February 2012.
Mme C J M Morin-Postel Ms M G Verluyten, all of whom served throughout the year, served as a member of the Committee until 6 July 2011. save for Ms M G Verluyten who served as a member of the During the year, the Nominations Committee: Committee from 1 February 2012.
Mme C J M Morin-Postel served as a member of the Committee until 6 July 2011. considered and recommended Mr S A Borrows for Allthe members of the Committee are independent appointment as Chief Investment Officer and executive non-executive Directors.
The Board is satisfied that the Director of the Company: Committee Chairman, Mr R H Meddings, has recent and considered and recommended Ms M G Verluyten for relevant financial experience.
appointment as a non-executive Director of the Company: During the year, the Committee: considered other potential candidates for non-executive Director appointments: and reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control considered the size, balance, diversity including gender environment of the Group and the Groups compliance and composition of the Board.
withits regulatory requirements and received reports onbank covenants and third-party liabilities: A formal, rigorous and transparent process for the reviewed and recommended to the Board the accounting appointment of Directors has been established with the disclosures comprised in the half-yearly and annual objective of identifying the skills and experience profile financial statements of the Company and reviewed the required of new Directors and identifying suitable candidates.
scope of the annual external audit plan and the external The procedure includes the appraisal and selection of audit findings: potential candidates, including in the case of non-executive Directors whether they have sufficient time to fulfil their received the reports of the Valuations Committee on the roles.
Specialist recruitment consultants assist the valuation of the Groups investment assets: Committee to identify suitable candidates for appointment.
received Portfolio Committee reports: The Committees recommendations for appointment are received regular reports from the Groups internal audit putto the full Board for approval.
function, monitored its activities and effectiveness, and Further to the publication of the Davies Report on Women agreed the annual internal audit plan: onBoards, and Code Provision B.
2.4 which will take effect received regular reports from the Groups regulatory forfinancial years commencing on or after 1 October 2012, compliance function and Group Risk Committee, and the Board strongly supports the principle of boardroom monitored their activities and effectiveness: diversity, of which gender is one important aspect.
oversaw the Companys relations with its external auditors TheBoards aim is to have a broad range of approaches, including assessing auditor performance, independence backgrounds, skills and experience represented on the and objectivity, recommending the auditors reappointment Board and to make appointments on merit and against and approving the auditors fees: objective criteria, including diversity.
met with the external auditors in the absence of management: and reviewed the portfolio management processes.
78 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Statutory and corporate governance information The Nominations Committee agreed during the year that Relations with shareholders standing instructions for search agents engaged by the The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a Company should be to put forward for all Board positions purposeful relationship with the Companys shareholders.
adiversity of candidates including women candidates.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director, together withthe Group Communications Director, meet with the Valuations Committee Companys principal institutional shareholders to discuss relevant issues as they arise.
The Chairman maintains The Valuations Committee comprises Mr W Mesdag a dialogue with shareholders on strategy, corporate Chairman, Sir Adrian Montague, Mr M J Queen and governance and Directors remuneration as required.
MrsJSWilson, all of whom served throughout the year.
During the year, the Valuations Committee considered The Board receives reports from the Companys brokers andmade recommendations to the Audit and Compliance onshareholder issues and non-executive Directors are Committee and the Board on valuations of the Groups invited to attend the Companys presentations to analysts investments to be included in the half-yearly and annual andare offered the opportunity to meet shareholders.
financial statements of the Group and reviewed valuations The Companys major shareholders are offered the policy and methodology.
opportunity to meet newly-appointed non-executive Directors.
The Company also uses its AGM as an opportunity to Brand and Values Committee communicate with its shareholders.
At the Meeting, business The Brand and Values Committee comprises Sir Adrian presentations are generally made by the Chairman and the Montague Chairman, Mr M J Queen and Mr K J Dunn, Chief Executive.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit allofwhom served throughout the year, together with and Compliance, and Nominations Committees are generally twoormore non-executive Directors determined by the available to answer shareholders questions.
During the year, at the invitation of the Chairman, the During the year, the Brand and Values Committee Companys major shareholders met with the Chairman consideredand made recommendations on a range andthe Company Secretary to discuss matters of corporate ofmatters pertaining to the Groups reputation, brand governance and corporate responsibility relevant to the andvalues, and its approach as a responsible investor Company and its shareholders.
The Committee reviewed the The 2011 Notice of AGM was dispatched to shareholders not Responsible Investment policy, the approach to membership less than 20 working days before the Meeting.
At that Meeting, of ethical indices, the brand and trends affecting reputation, voting on each resolution was taken on a poll and the poll the 3i Values workshops, reputational risks in emerging results were made available on the Companys website.
markets, training on responsible investment, the staff survey, whistle-blowing reports and the reputational risk log.
Portfolio management and voting policy The Company Secretary In relation to unquoted investments, the Groups approach istoseek to add value to the businesses in which the All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Groupinvests through the Groups extensive experience, General Counsel and Company Secretary, who is responsible resources and contacts.
In relation to quoted investments, for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on governance the Groups policy is to exercise voting rights on matters matters.
The Companys Articles of Association and the affecting its interests.
schedule of matters reserved to the Board or its duly authorised committees for decision provide that the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the full Board.
Overview Strategy, Business Business review Risk Corporate Governance Financial statements Portfolio and other model and KPIs responsibility information 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 79 The overall internal control process is regularly reviewed Internal control by the Board and the Audit and Compliance Committee and The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal complies with the internal control guidance for Directors control and reviews its effectiveness at least annually.
Such a onthe Code issued by the Turnbull Committee.
The process system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk established for the Group includes: of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Policies misstatement or loss.
core values and global policies together comprising the Through the regular meetings of the Board and the schedule Groups high level principles and controls, with which all of matters reserved to the Board or its duly authorised staff are expected to comply: committees for decision, the Board aims to maintain full manuals of policies and procedures, applicable to all andeffective control over appropriate strategic, financial, business units, with procedures for reporting weaknesses operational and compliance issues.
and for monitoring corrective action: and The Board has put in place an organisational structure a code of business conduct, with procedures for reporting withclearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation compliance therewith.
The Board considers and approves a strategic planregularly and approves a budget on an annual basis.
Processes Inaddition, there are established procedures and processes appointment of experienced and professional staff, both for planning and controlling expenditure and the making byrecruitment and promotion, of the necessary calibre to ofinvestments.
There are also information and reporting fulfil their allotted responsibilities: systems for monitoring the Groups businesses and theirperformance.
a planning framework which incorporates a Board approved strategic plan, with objectives for each business unit: The Group Risk Committee is a management committee formal business risk reviews performed by management formed by the Chief Executive and its purpose is to review which evaluate the potential financial impact and likelihood the business of the Group in order to ensure that business of identified risks and possible new risk areas: risk is considered, assessed and managed as an integral part of the business.
There is an ongoing process for the setting of control, mitigation and monitoring identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant procedures and the review of actual occurrences, risks.
This process was in place for the year to 31 March identifying lessons to be learnt: 2012 and up to the date of this report.
a comprehensive system of financial reporting to the Board, based on an annual budget with monthly reporting The Group Risk Committees activities are supported by the of actual results, analysis of variances, scrutiny of key activities of Treasury Management Committee as well as performance indicators and regular re-forecasting: the Portfolio Committee and Operating Committee.
Details regular treasury reports to the Board, which analyse the of the risk management framework can be found in the funding requirements of each class of assets, track the Risk section.
generation and use of capital and the volume of liquidity, measure the Groups exposure to interest and exchange rate movements and record the level of compliance with the Groups funding objectives: a Group Compliance function whose role is to integrate regulatory compliance procedures and best practices intothe Groups systems: and well defined procedures governing the appraisal and approval of investments, including detailed investment anddivestment approval procedures, incorporating appropriate levels of authority and regular postinvestment reviews.
80 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Statutory and corporate governance information Verification Auditors independence and objectivity an Internal Audit function which undertakes periodic Subject to annual appointment by shareholders, auditor examination of business units and processes and performance is monitored on an ongoing basis and formally recommends improvements in controls to management: reviewed every five years, the last review being held during the year to 31 March 2009.
Following this review the Audit the external auditors who are engaged to express an and Compliance Committee concluded that Ernst & Young opinion on the annual financial statements: and LLPs appointment as the Companys auditors should an Audit and Compliance Committee which considers be continued.
significant control matters and receives reports from Internal Audit, the external auditors and Group Compliance The Audit and Compliance Committee recognises the on a regular basis.
importance of ensuring the independence and objectivity ofthe Companys auditors.
It reviews the nature and extent The internal control system is monitored and supported ofthe services provided by them, the level of their fees and byInternal Audit and Compliance, which operate on an the element comprising non-audit fees.
international basis and report to management and the Auditand Compliance Committee on the Groups operations.
The Audit and Compliance Committee Chairman is notified The work of Internal Audit is focused on the areas of greatest ofall assignments allocated to Ernst & Young over a set risk to the Group determined on the basis of the Groups risk threshold, other than those related to due diligence within the management process.
Groups investment process where the team engaged would be independent of the audit team.
Safeguards have been put The external auditors independently and objectively review in place to reduce the likelihood of compromising auditor the approach of management to reporting operating results independence, including the following principles which are and financial condition.
In co-ordination with Internal Audit, applied in respect of services provided by the auditors and they also review and test the system of internal financial other accounting firms and monitored by the Audit and control and the information contained in the annual financial Compliance Committee: statements to the extent necessary for expressing their opinion.
services required to be undertaken by the auditors, whichinclude regulatory returns, formalities relating to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars.
This work Financial reporting isnormally allocated directly to the auditors: In the context of the above internal control framework, there services which it is most efficient for the auditors to are specific processes in place in relation to Financial provide.
In this case, information relating to the service Reporting, including: is largely derived from the Companys audited financial comprehensive system of key control and oversight records: for example, corporate tax services.
This work is processes, including regular reconciliations, line manager normally allocated to the auditors subject to consideration reviews and systems access controls: of any impact on their independence: and updates for consideration by the Audit and Compliance services that could be provided by a number of firms Committee of accounting developments, including draft including general consultancy work.
All significant and new accounting standards and legislation: consultancy projects are normally put out to tender and a separate Valuations Committee which considers the work would be allocated to the auditors only if it did not Groups investment valuation policies, application and present a potential threat to the independence of the audit outcome: team.
Included in this category is due diligence work relating to the investment process.
If this service were approval of the Groups budget by the Board and regular tobe provided by the auditors, the specific team engaged updates on actual and forecast financial performance would be independent of the audit team.
against budget: reports from Internal Audit on matters relevant to Details of the fees paid to the auditors are disclosed in note 6 thefinancial reporting process, including periodic to the financial statements.
assessments of internal controls, processes and fraudrisk: independent updates and reports from the external auditors on accounting developments, application ofaccounting standards, key accounting judgements andobservations on systems and controls: and regular risk reviews, including an assessment of riskstoreliable financial reporting covering people, processesand systems, and updates on the management of identified risks or actual incidents.
