68 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Statutory and corporate governance information This section of the Directors report contains statutory During the year, the Company has continued its approach andcorporate governance information for the year ofconservative balance sheet management.
The Board to31March 2012 the year concerning the Company recognises the current need to manage liquidity and gross anditssubsidiaries the Group.
and net debt levels on a conservative basis such that the Company should be well-placed to deal with external events, take advantage of opportunities and manage its investment Principal activity and divestment activities in a flexible manner.
The Board has 3i is an international investor focused on private equity, decided that net debt should not currently exceed 1billion infrastructure and debt management, investing in Europe, and may at times be significantly below this limit.
As a Asia and the Americas.
consequence, gearing, which is a function of both net debt and asset values, is expected to be in the range of 0%30% Group investment policy for the immediate future.
It should be noted that subject always to the formal gearing limit in the Companys 3is investment policy, which as a closed-ended investment investment policy statement set out above the actual fund it is required to publish, is as follows: gearing level at any point in time will fluctuate, since it is a 3i is an investment company which aims to provide its function of, among other things, asset valuations and the shareholders with quoted access to private equity returns.
timing of investment and realisation cash flows.
The Board Currently, its main focus is on making quoted and anticipates that the Company may be in a net cash position unquoted equity and or debt investments in businesses during certain periods for example during periods of high and funds across Europe, Asia and the Americas.
valuations where realisations might be expected to exceed Thegeographies, economic sectors, funds and asset investment but may have net debt in other periods for classes in which 3i invests continue to evolve as example where valuations are relatively low or after periods opportunities are identified.
Proposed investments are of low return flows.
assessed individually and all significant investments require approval from the Groups Investment Committee.
Tax and investment company status Overall investment targets are subject to periodic reviews and the investment portfolio is also reviewed to monitor The Company is an investment company as defined by exposure to specific geographies, economic sectors and section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
Customs has approved the Company as an investment trust under section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the 3i seeks to diversify risk through significant dispersion year to 31 March 2011.
Since that date the Company has ofinvestments by geography, economic sector, asset directed its affairs to enable it to continue to be so approved.
classand size as well as through the maturity profile ofitsinvestment portfolio.
In addition, although 3i does Regulation notsetmaximum exposure limits for asset allocations, nomore than 15% by value of 3is portfolio can be held 3i Investments plc, 3i Debt Management Investments inasingle investment.
Limited, 3i Europe plc and 3i Nordic plc, subsidiaries of the Company, are authorised and regulated by the FSA under the Investments are generally funded with a mixture of debt Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Where applicable, and shareholders funds with a view to maximising returns certain Group subsidiaries businesses outside the United to shareholders, whilst maintaining a strong capital base.
Kingdom are regulated locally by relevant authorities.
3is gearing depends not only on its level of debt, but also on the impact of market movements and other factors Management arrangements on the value of its investments.
The Board takes this into 3i Investments plc acts as investment manager to the account when, as required, it sets a precise maximum Company and certain of its subsidiaries.
Contracts for these level of gearing.
The Board has therefore set the maximum investment management and other services, for which level of gearing at 150% and has set no minimum level regulatory authorisation is required, provide for fees based of gearing.
If the gearing ratio should exceed the 150% on the work done and costs incurred in providing such maximum limit, the Board will take steps to reduce the services.
These contracts may be terminated by either party gearing ratio to below that limit as soon as practicable on reasonable notice.
3i is committed to achieving balance sheetefficiency.
3i plc provides the Group with certain corporate and administrative services, for which no regulatory authorisation is required, under contracts which provide for fees based on the work done and costs incurred in providing such services together with a performance fee based on realised profits on the sale of assets.
Overview Strategy, Business Business review Risk Corporate Governance Financial statements Portfolio and other model and KPIs responsibility information 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 69 Results and dividends B shares Total comprehensive income for the year was 656 million The issued B share capital of the Company as at 1 April 2011 2011: 324million.
An interim dividend of 2.7p per ordinary was 4,635,018 B shares.
No B shares were issued in the year share in respect of the year to 31 March 2012 was paid to 31 March 2012.
At the AGM on 6 July 2011, the Directors on 11 January 2012.
The Directors recommend a final were authorised to repurchase up to 4,635,018 B shares in dividend of 5.4p per ordinary share be paid in respect of the Company until the Companys AGM in 2012 or 5 October the year to 31 March 2012 to shareholders on the Register 2012, if earlier.
This authority was not exercised in the year.
at the close of business on 22 June 2012.
Directors interests The trustee of The 3i Group Employee Trust the Employee Trust has waived subject to certain minor exceptions In accordance with FSA Listing Rule 9.8.
6 R 1, Directors dividends declared by the Company after 26 May 1994 on interests in the shares of the Company in respect of which shares held by the Employee Trust.
transactions are notifiable to the Company under FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.
2 R as at 31 March 2012 are shown below: Business review The Groups development during the year to 31 March 2012, Ordinary shares B shares its position at that date and the Groups likely future development are detailed in the Chairmans statement, the Sir Adrian Montague 57,758 0 Chief Executives review and the Business review.
J P Asquith 2,500 0 S A Borrows 1,567,158 0 Share capital The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2012 A R Cox 4.900 0 19 comprised 971,069,281 ordinary shares of 73 22p each and R H Meddings 18,460 0 4,635,018 B shares cumulative preference shares of 1p W Mesdag 224,174 0 each, which represented 99.99% and 0.01% respectively of the nominal value of the Companys issued share capital.
M J Queen 1,703,162 6,227 During the year, the issued share capital of the Company M G Verluyten 0 0 altered as set out below.
J S Wilson 59,686 1,038 Ordinary shares The share interests shown for Mr M J Queen and Mrs J S The issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at Wilson include shares held in the 3i Group Share Incentive 1April 2011 was 970,650,620 ordinary shares.
During the Plan and share bonus awards under the 3i Group Deferred year to 31 March 2012 this increased by 418,661 ordinary Bonus Plan.
The share interests shown exclude share option shares as a result of the issue of shares to the trustee of and performance share awards detailed in the Directors the3i Group Share Incentive Plan.
From 1 April 2012 to 10 May 2012, At the Annual General Meeting AGM on 6 July 2011, the MrMJ Queen and Mrs J S Wilson became interested in an Directors were authorised to repurchase up to 97,000,000 additional 201 and 198 ordinary shares, respectively, and ordinary shares in the Company representing approximately there were no other changes to Directors share interests.
10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 11May 2011 until the Companys AGM in 2012 or 5 October 2012, if earlier.
70 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Statutory and corporate governance information Major interests in ordinary shares Notifications of the following voting interests in the Companys ordinary share capital which are notifiable in accordance with Chapter 5 of the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules and section 793 Companies Act 2006 had been received by the Company as at 31March 2012 and 10 May 2012: As at As at 31 March % of issued 10 May % of issued 2012 share capital 2012 share capital Nature of holding BlackRock, Inc 106,259,273 10.943 106,259,273 10.943 Indirect Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 66,041,715 6.805 66,041,715 6.805 Direct and Indirect Standard Life Investments plc 48,482,387 4.996 48,482,387 4.996 Direct and Indirect Schroders Plc 47,870,160 4.933 47,870,160 4.933 Indirect Legal & General Group Plc and or its subsidiaries 38,620,595 3.979 38,620,595 3.979 Direct includes consideration of a resolution for the winding-up Rights and restrictions attaching to shares ofthe Company other than a solvent intra group A summary of the rights and restrictions attaching to shares reorganisation in which case holders of B shares shall be as at 31 March 2012 is set out below.
entitled to attend, speak and vote only in relation to such The amendment of the Companys Articles of Association is resolution and in either case shall, on a poll, be entitled to governed by relevant statutes.
The Articles may be amended one vote per B share held.
by special resolution of the shareholders in general meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of fully paid shares Holders of ordinary shares and B shares enjoy the rights in the Company, save as follows.
The Board may decline accorded to them under the Articles of Association of the toregister a transfer of uncertificated shares in the Company and under the laws of England and Wales.
circumstances set out in the Uncertificated Securities Anyshare may be issued with or have attached to it Regulations 2001 or where a transfer is to more than four suchrights and restrictions as the Company by ordinary joint holders.
The Board may decline to register any transfer resolution or failing such resolution the Board may decide.
of certificated shares which is not in respect of only one class of share, which is to more than four joint holders, which is Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and not accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it vote at general meetings of the Company and to appoint relates, which is not duly stamped in circumstances where a proxies and, in the case of corporations, corporate duly stamped instrument is required, or where in accordance representatives to attend, speak and vote at such meetings with section 794 of the Companies Act 2006 a notice under on their behalf.
On a poll, holders of ordinary shares are section 793 of that Act has been served by the Company on entitled to one vote for each share held.
Holders of ordinary a shareholder who has then failed to give the information shares are entitled to receive the Companys Annual Report required within the specified time.
In the latter circumstances and accounts, to receive such dividends and other the Company may make the relevant shares subject to distributions as may lawfully be paid or declared on such certain restrictions including in respect of the ability to shares and, on any liquidation of the Company, to share in exercise voting rights, to transfer the shares validly and, thesurplus assets of the Company after satisfaction of the except in the case of a liquidation, to receive the payment entitlements of the holders of the B shares or such other ofsums due from the Company.
Since 14 July 2009 the shares with preferred rights as may then be in issue.
Company has been entitled to appoint a person to execute Holders of B shares are entitled, out of the profits available atransfer on behalf of all holders of B shares in acceptance fordistribution in any year and in priority to any payment of an offer, paying the holders such amount as they would ofdividend or other distribution to holders of ordinary shares, have been entitled to on a winding-up of the Company.
toa cumulative preferential dividend of 3.75% per annum There are no shares carrying special rights with regard to calculated on the amount of 127p per B share the Return control of the Company.
There are no restrictions placed on Amount.
On a return of capital other than a solvent intra voting rights of fully paid shares, save where in accordance group reorganisation holders of B shares are entitled to with Article 12 of the Companys Articles of Association a receive in priority to any payment to holders of ordinary shares restriction notice has been served by the Company in respect payment of the Return Amount together with any accrued of shares for failure to comply with statutory notices or where butunpaid dividends but are not entitled to any further right a transfer notice as described below has been served ofparticipation in the profits or assets of the Company.
inrespect of shares and has not yet been complied with.
Holders of B shares are not entitled to receive notice of or In the circumstances specified in Article 38 of the Companys attend, speak or vote at general meetings of the Company Articles of Association the Company may serve a transfer save where the B share dividend has remained unpaid for notice on holders of shares.
The relevant circumstances sixmonths or more or where the business of the meeting Overview Strategy, Business Business review Risk Corporate Governance Financial statements Portfolio and other model and KPIs responsibility information 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 71 relate to: a potential tax disadvantage to the Company, In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code all b the number of United States Residents who own or Directors submit to reappointment every year.
Accordingly hold shares becoming 75 or more, or c the Company being atthe AGM to be held on 29 June 2012 all the Directors will required to be registered as an investment company under retire from office.
All these Directors are eligible for and, relevant US legislation.
The notice would require the transfer save for Mr M J Queen who is stepping down from the Board, of relevant shares and pending such transfer the rights and seek reappointment.
privileges attaching to those shares would be suspended.
The Boards recommendation for the reappointment To attend and vote at a Company general meeting a ofDirectors is set out in the 2012 Notice of AGM.
shareholder must be entered on the register of members atsuch time not being earlier than 48 hours before the Directors conflicts of interests meeting as stated in the notice of general meeting.
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of The Company is not aware of any agreements between interestwith the Company.
The Companys Articles holders of its securities that may restrict the transfer of ofAssociation enable Directors to approve conflicts of shares or exercise of voting rights.
interest and include other conflict of interest provisions.
TheCompany has implemented processes to identify potential and actual conflicts of interest.
Such conflicts Debentures arethen considered for approval by the Board, subject, As detailed in note 21 to the Accounts, as at 31March2012 ifnecessary, to appropriate conditions.
the Company had in issue Notes issued under the 3i Group plc 2,000million Note Issuance Programme.
Directors indemnities As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the Appointment and re-election of Directors Company has maintained Qualifying Third-Party Indemnity Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Provisions as defined under relevant legislation for the Companies Acts and satisfactory performance evaluation, benefit of the Companys Directors throughout the year.
non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial period ofthree years.
Before the third and sixth anniversaries of Employment anon-executive Directors first appointment, the Director discusses with the Board whether it is appropriate for a The policy of the Group is one of equal opportunity in the further three year term to be served.
selection, training, career development and promotion of employees, regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, The Companys Articles of Association provide for: ethnic origin, religion and whether disabled or otherwise.
a the minimum number of Directors to be two and 3i treats applicants and employees with disabilities equally themaximum to be 20, unless otherwise determined and fairly and provides facilities, equipment and training to bythe Company by ordinary resolution: assist disabled employees to do their jobs.
Arrangements b Directors to be appointed by ordinary resolution are made as necessary to ensure access and support to oftheCompanys shareholders in general meeting jobapplicants who happen to be disabled and who respond orbytheBoard: toour request to inform the Company of any requirements.
Should an employee become disabled during their c Directors to retire by rotation at an AGM if: employment, efforts would be made to retain them in their i they have been appointed by the Board since the current employment or to explore the opportunities for their preceding AGM: retraining or redeployment within 3i.
Financial support is also provided by 3i to support disabled employees who are ii they held office during the two preceding AGMs unable to work, as appropriate to local market conditions.
butdid not retire at either of them: 3is principal means of keeping in touch with the views of iii not being Chairman of the Board, they held its employees are through employee appraisals, informal non-executive office for a continuous period of consultations, team briefings, and staff conferences nineyears or more at the date of that AGM: or and surveys.
Managers throughout 3i have a continuing responsibility to keep their staff fully informed of iv they choose to retire from office: and developments and to communicate financial results and d shareholders to have the power to remove any Director other matters of interest.
This is achieved by structured by special resolution.
communication including regular meetings of employees.
Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, retiring 3i is an equal opportunities employer and has clear grievance Directors are eligible for reappointment.
The office of and disciplinary procedures in place.
3i also has an employee Director shall be vacated if the Director resigns, becomes assistance programme which provides a confidential, free bankrupt or is prohibited by law from being a Director or and independent counselling service and is available to all where the Board so resolves following the Director suffering staff and their families in the UK.
from mental ill-health or being absent from Board meetings for 12 months without the Boards permission.
72 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Statutory and corporate governance information 3is employment policies are designed to provide a Failing agreement and if so required by Lloyds TSB Bank competitive reward package which will attract and retain plc, amounts outstanding would be required to be repaid high quality staff, whilst ensuring that the relevant costs and the facility cancelled: remain at an appropriate level.
b 450million Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated Remuneration policy is reviewed by the 3i Group plc 30June 2011, between the Company, 3i Holdings plc, Remuneration Committee, comprising 3i Group plc nonLloyds TSB Bank plc, Barclays Capital, Goldman Sachs executive Directors.
International, Lloyds TSB Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Socit Gnrale London Branch, Abbey 3is remuneration policy is influenced by 3is financial and National Treasury Services Plc, Citigroup Global Markets other performance conditions and market practices in the Limited, Commerzbank Aktiengesellschaft London countries in which it operates.
All employees receive a base Branch, Credit Suisse Ag London Branch, Deutsche Bank salary and are eligible for a performance-related bonus.
Ag London Branch, JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A.
Standard Where appropriate, employees are eligible to participate in Chartered Bank and UBS Limited in relation to the 3i share schemes to encourage employees involvement in provision of a multi-currency revolving credit facility to 3is performance.
Investment executives in the Private Equity the Company and 3i Holdings plc.
Under this agreement, business line may also participate in co-investment plans the Company would be required to notify Lloyds TSB and carried interest schemes, which allow executives to Bank plc, in its capacity as agent for the banks, within share directly in any future profits on investments.
Similarly, fivedays of any change of control of the Company.
Such investment executives in the Infrastructure and Debt notification would open a negotiation period of 20 days Management business lines may participate in asset-linked from the date of the change of control to determine and or fee-linked incentive arrangements.
Employees whether the Majority Lenders as defined in the participate in local state or company pension schemes agreement would be willing to continue to make available asappropriate to local market conditions.
the facility and, if so, on what terms.
Failing agreement and if so required by the Majority Lenders, amounts Charitable and political donations outstanding would be required to be repaid and the Charitable donations made by the Group in the year to facility cancelled: 31March 2012 amounted to 409,828.
Detail on these c 50million Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated donations is provided in the CR section of our Investor 29September 2011, between the Company, 3i Holdings relations website, www.
plc and Nordea Bank Finland PLC London Branch in relation to the provision of a multi-currency revolving In line with Group policy, during the year to 31 March 2012 credit facility to the Company and 3i Holdings plc.
Under nodonations were made to political parties or organisations, this agreement, the Company would be required to notify or independent election candidates, and no political Nordea Bank Finland PLC London Branch within five expenditure was incurred.
days, of any change of control of the Company.
Such notification would open a negotiation period of 20 days Policy for paying creditors from the date of the change of control to determine The Groups policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with whether Nordea Bank Finland PLC London Branch would the terms and conditions of the relevant markets in which it be willing to continue to make available the facility and, if operates.
Expenses are paid on a timely basis in the ordinary so, on what terms.
Failing agreement, and if so required course of business.
The Company had no trade creditors by Nordea Bank Finland PLC London Branch, amounts outstanding at the year end.
The Group had trade creditors outstanding would be required to be repaid and the outstanding at the year end representing on average facility cancelled: and 18.7 days purchases.
d Limited Partnership Agreements dated 24 March 2010, between 3i GC GP Limited, the Company, other 3i entities Significant agreements and other investors from time to time in relation to the As at 31 March 2012 the Company was party to the following formation of partnerships to carry on the business of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a change investing as the fund known as 3i Growth Capital Fund.
of control of the Company following a takeover bid: Under these agreements, the manager, 3i Investments plc, would be required to notify the investors of any a 200million Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated change of control of the Company.
If such a change 4November 2009, between the Company, 3i Holdings plc ofcontrol occurred before the end of the relevant and Lloyds TSB Bank plc in relation to the provision of a investment period, the managers powers to make multi-currency term and revolving credit facility to the newinvestments on behalf of the partnerships would Company and 3i Holdings plc.
Under this agreement, the besuspended unless the investors had given consent Company would be required to notify Lloyds TSB Bank plc before the change of control occurred.
Where suspension within five days of any change of control of the Company.
occurs, the investors may consent at any time before Such notification would open a negotiation period of 20 theend of the investment period to the resumption of days from the date of the change of control to determine themanagers powers.
whether Lloyds TSB Bank plc would be willing to continue to make available the facility and, if so, on what terms.
Overview Strategy, Business Business review Risk Corporate Governance Financial statements Portfolio and other model and KPIs responsibility information 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 73 Statement of Directors responsibilities Going concern The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities Report and the Group financial statements in accordance in relation to the financial statements for the year to with applicable United Kingdom law and those International 31 March 2012.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs which have been The Groups business activities, together with the factors adopted by the European Union.
likely to affect its future development, performance and Under Company Law the Directors must not approve the position are set out in the Business review section.
The Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that they financial position of the Group, its capital structure, gearing present fairly the financial position, financial performance and liquidity positions are described in the Financial review and cash flows of the Group for that period.
The Groups policies on risk management, including Group financial statements the Directors: treasury and funding risks, are contained in the Risk section.
Further details are contained in the financial statements and a select suitable accounting policies in accordance with notes including, in particular, details on financial risk International Accounting Standard 8: Accounting Policies, management and derivative financial instruments.
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the continuing uncertain b present information, including accounting policies, in a economic outlook.
The Directors have considered the manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and uncertainties inherent in current and expected future market understandable information: conditions and their possible impact upon the financial performance of the Group.
After consideration, theDirectors c provide additional disclosures when compliance with the are satisfied that the Company has and will maintain sufficient specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable financial resources to enable it to continue operating in the users to understand the impact of particular transactions, foreseeable future and therefore continue toadopt the going other events and conditions on the Groups financial concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and accounts.
position and financial performance: d state that the Group has complied with IFRSs, subject Audit information toany material departures disclosed and explained in thefinancial statements: and Pursuant to section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, each ofthe Directors confirms that: a so far as they are aware, e make judgements and estimates that are reasonable.
there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and b they have taken all steps they The Directors have a responsibility for ensuring that proper ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant accounting records are kept which are sufficient to show audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors andexplain the Groups transactions and disclose with are aware of such information.
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
Appointment of auditors They have a general responsibility for taking such steps In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, asare reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets aresolution proposing the reappointment of Ernst & Young ofthe Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other LLP as the Companys auditors will be put to members at irregularities.
In accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: By order of the Board a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with K J Dunn applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair Company Secretary viewof the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit 16 May 2012 or loss of the Company and the undertakings included Registered Office: inthe consolidation taken as a whole: and 16 Palace Street, London SW1E 5JD b the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included inthe consolidation taken as a whole together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Directors of the Company and their functions are listed inthe Board of Directors and Leadership Team section.
