56 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Risk The Group uses core currency borrowing to hedge foreign Risk governance framework exchange exposures in the portfolio, which are primarily in euro and US dollars.
This is supplemented where 3is risk governance framework provides a structured necessary by the use of derivatives, subject to a maximum process to oversee the identification, assessment and overall derivative limit agreed by the Board.
In the current approach to mitigation in respect of those risks which volatile market conditions, 3is ability to re-finance currency could materially impact the Groups strategic objectives debt at atime of its own choosing may be constrained.
This could impact the Groups ability to sufficiently hedge Risk management operates at all levels throughout the the non-sterling portfolio in line with agreed targets.
Group, across business lines, geographies and professional The effectiveness of the hedging strategy is closely monitored functions.
The Board is ultimately responsible for risk in the context of the Groups portfolio strategy, as well as management, which includes the Groups risk governance market conditions and possible funding constraints.
oroversight structure and maintaining an appropriate internalcontrol framework.
Managements responsibility Operational istomanage risk on behalf of the Board.
The key operational risks facing the Group during the By reporting regularly to Audit and Compliance Committee, year relate mainly to people.
In common with many the Groups Risk Committee provides support to the Board other businesses, the difficult economic environment has in maintaining oversight of the effectiveness of risk contributed to a degree of uncertainty for staff.
A number management across the Group.
ofteams have downsized to align with business needs and manage costs.
This has involved some process changes The risk governance framework and the responsibilities andreallocation of responsibilities, which have required of the main committees involved are shown opposite.
close management to ensure the internal control Details can also be found in the Governance section environment remains robust.
There have been no changes to 3is risk management During the year, the Company refreshed and relaunched framework over the course of the year.
Risk reviews are its core values, which involved workshops for all staff, generally carried out on a quarterly basis and aligned and completed its annual employee engagement survey, withthe Group Risk Committee meetings, which are held the results of which are reported on page 64. aspart of the Leadership Team meetings.
The process of integrating the 3i Debt Management team andbedding down related oversight, compliance and control Related committees processes has been completed during the year.
In the Private Equity business, operational responsibilities have been The Brand and Values Committee oversees a range realigned between Developed and Developing Markets.
ofmatters which could create reputational risks for the Company, complementing the work of the Group Risk A number of policies and procedures have been upgraded Committee.
This includes identifying and assessing the during the year.
This has included a complete update of significant risks and opportunities for 3i arising from theGroups incident response plan: a review and update corporate responsibility issues.
ofhuman resources policies: the launch of an updated anti-bribery policy, supported by all staff e-learning: and someprocess changes in response to the Financial Service Authoritys remuneration code.
