50 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Corporate governance statement The Companys approach Meetings of the Board The Board is required to meet a minimum of four times a year.
A calendar  of seven scheduled main Board meetings was agreed at the start of the The Company is committed to upholding the highest standards of year.
Due to the nature of the Boards close involvement in the operation corporate governance.
It observes the requirements of the UK Corporate of the Company and in making investment related decisions, a number Governance Code published by the UK Financial Reporting Council in offurther meetings are arranged at shorter notice.
During the year, there June 2010 the Code, a copy of which is available from the Financial were seven main meetings of the Board of Directors.
In addition to these Reporting Council website www.
uk, subject to Listing Rule meetings, there were five full Board meetings arranged at short notice 15.6.
6 2, and to the extent applicable to the Company, given that it and two meetings of specically formed committees to execute decisions hasnoExecutive Directors.
The Code applies to all companies with arising from full Board meetings.
The Directors attendance at main apremium listing on the London Stock Exchange, irrespective of their Board meetings is set out in the table below: country of incorporation.
Number of The Company has complied with all the applicable provisions of the Code Directors attendance meetings while for the financial year ending 31 March 2012. year to 31 March 2012 a Director Attendance The Board has adopted a code of Directors dealings in ordinary shares, Peter Sedgwick 7 7 which is based on the Model Code for Directors dealings contained in the Philip Austin 7 7 Listing Rules the Model Code.
The Board is responsible for taking all Sir John Collins 7 7 proper and reasonable steps to ensure compliance with the Model Code Florence Pierre 7 7 by the Directors.
Charlotte Valeur 7 7 Paul Waller 7 4 The Boards responsibilities Steven Wilderspin 7 7 andprocesses The principal matters considered by the Board during the year included: The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management ofthe Company.
It determines matters including financial strategy and the Companys strategy, including market positioning and planning and takes all investment decisions, taking into account the investmentstrategy: advice it receives from the Investment Adviser.
The Board has put in approval of the Companys budget and review of financial resources: place an organisational structure to ensure the efficient performance ofits responsibilities.
This is further described under the heading the Companys capital structure, balance sheet efficiency and Internal control.
taxationarrangements: The Board has approved a formal schedule of matters reserved to it approval of investment and divestment decisions: andthe Audit Committee for decision.
These include: review of portfolio asset performance: approval of the Companys overall strategy, plans and annual review of Boards committee structure and decision to establish operatingbudget: aManagement Engagement Committee: approval of the Companys half-yearly and annual financial statements review of counterparty exposure and limits: and changes in the Companys accounting policies or practices: review of the Companys foreign exchange hedging strategy: approval of changes relating to the capital structure of the Company orits regulated status: review of regular reports from the Investment Adviser relating to the infrastructure market and early stage work-in-progress: approval of the appointment and removal of the Investment Adviser and annual review and continued approval of key agreements with review of the recommendations of the Investment Adviser on the service providers, including the Investment Advisory Agreement with valuation of investments: 3iInvestments plc: review of the Companys Investor Relations programme, share price approval of major changes in the nature of business operations or performance and shareholder perceptions following the release of investment policy: financial information: approval of investments and divestments: review of the risk management arrangements, internal controls and the investment approval process: approval of portfolio company valuations and review of the performance and plans for each portfolio company: review of the performance of the Investment Adviser and of key service providers to the Company: review of the adequacy of internal control systems including those operated by independent service providers: and review of the independence of Directors: appointments to the Board and determination of terms of appointment review of any updates to the UK Corporate Governance Code and the of Directors.
requirements for the Company, including a review of Board diversity policy: and updates to UK and Jersey law and their impact on the Company, including the Companys policy in relation to the UK Bribery Act.
Governance 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 51 Information The Chairman Reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a timely manner in The Chairman, Peter Sedgwick, leads the Board in the determination preparation for Board and committee meetings.
These papers are ofits strategy and in the achievement of its objectives.
The Chairman supplemented by information specically requested by the Directors isresponsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its from time to time.
effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chairman also acts as a manager the equivalent of a director of 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg Holdings S. r. l. and 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg S. r. l. which are Performance evaluation subsidiaries of the Company, and is the Companys appointed member Board tothe Advisory Board for the 3i India Infrastructure Fund.
He receives noadditional remuneration for these roles.
The Chairman facilitates During the year, an independent external review was conducted to theeffective contribution of all the Directors and constructive relations evaluate the performance and effectiveness of the Board and that of its between the Companys advisers, including the Investment Adviser, and committees.
The review was undertaken by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom the Directors.
The Chairman maintains direct links with the Companys Review, a specialist consultancy, which is fully independent from the advisers and ensures that regular reports from them are circulated to Board, the Company and any other related party.
As part of that process, the Directors to enable the Directors to remain aware of shareholders Dr Tracy Long led the review, which explored the Boards denition of its views.
The Chairman ensures, with the cooperation of the Investment role and its approach, the culture and composition of the Board, and the Adviser, that a programme of effective communications is available optimisation of the Boards effectiveness and governance.
Dr Tracy Long forshareholders, including with the Chairman and Senior Independent also facilitated the following: Director, when shareholders so wish.
a review of the performance of the Board and its committees, aswellas of individual Directors, led by the Chairman: Senior Independent Director a review of the Chairman, led by the Senior Independent Director: Philip Austin is the Senior Independent Director.
In accordance with the Code, any concerns can be conveyed to the Senior Independent Director.
a review of the Audit Committee, led by the chairman of the The contact details of the Senior Independent Director are freely AuditCommittee.
available on the Companys website, or through the Company Secretary.
The results of the processes were formally reported to the Board and Audit Committee respectively.
All Board members and members of the Directors Investment Adviser gave personal views and feedback was presented The Board comprises the Chairman and six non-executive Directors.
Biographical details for each of the Directors are set out on page 46.
Following the completion of the above process, the Board noted that the All Directors have served throughout the year under review.
results of the exercise showed a high overall degree of satisfaction with No Director has a service contract with the Company, nor are any such the Boards: i consensual view of strategy: ii time commitment to contracts proposed.
The Directors were appointed as non-executive performance management, risk and control: iii focus on, and continual Directors by the subscribers to the Memorandum of Association of improvement of, financial information: and iv collegiate approach and theCompany or at subsequent Board meetings.
Their appointment interaction with the Investment Adviser.
wasconrmed by letters dated 29 January 2007 in the case of Peter The following recommendations were also made: Sedgwick and Philip Austin, 27 March 2007 in the case of Paul Waller, 20September 2007 in the case of Steven Wilderspin, 27 November 2008 to broaden the information provided on the external market landscape in the case of Sir John Collins, 28 September 2009 in the case of and peers in the sector: and Charlotte Valeur and 15 July 2010 in the case of Florence Pierre.
to continue to address the future composition and succession AllDirectors were elected or re-elected at the 2011 AGM.
Appointment letters for Directors were refreshed following the Companys Annual General Meeting in July 2011 in order to bring them Investment Adviser into line with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, During the year, the Board constituted a Management Engagement incorporating theannual re-election of Directors, a xed term Committee comprising all Board members, with the exception of appointment of three years and a three-month notice period.
PaulWaller to carry out the annual evaluation of the Investment Thenewletters are dated 28September 2011 in the case of Adviserrequired under the Listing Rules, and generally to manage the PeterSedgwick, Philip Austin, Florence Pierre, Charlotte Valeur and relationship with the Investment Adviser on behalf of the Company.
Steven Wilderspin, and 7 December 2011 inthe case of Sir John Collins.
Thisassessment had been undertaken by all independent non-executive Following the formal appraisal process of Directors, and in accordance Directors eg all Directors with the exception of Paul Waller in previous with Section B.
7.2 of the Code, the Chairman will propose their re-election years.
The Directors believe that the continued appointment of the at the forthcoming AGM.
Investment Adviser on the terms set out on page 78 is in the interest Appointment letters are available from the Company Secretary ofshareholders, based on the performance of the Investment Adviser uponrequest.
52 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Corporate governance statement continued The Directors appointment can be terminated, without compensation for is responding to those challenges.
The Board also received briengs on loss of office, in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Under the legal updates in relation to changes to laws and regulations in Jersey Articles, their appointments can inter alia be terminated on notice from andthe UK.
the other members of the Board, and also on ceasing to be a Director if The Directors, and specically members of the Audit Committee, they fail to be re-elected at any Annual General Meeting.
In accordance attended a number of seminars, meetings and conferences on with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will retire and seek governance and regulation, including the introduction of the Codesof re-election at the AGM taking place on 10 July 2012.
Practice for Certied Funds of the Jersey Financial Services Commission, In addition to fullling their legal responsibilities as Directors, the and also received presentations on specic aspects of the infrastructure Directors are expected to bring an independent judgment to bear on market and the Companys business.
The Company has procedures for issues of strategy, performance, investment appraisal and standards of Directors totake independent legal or other professional advice about conduct.
They are also expected to ensure high standards of financial the performance of their duties.
probity on the part of the Company.
As well as papers for Board meetings, the Directors receive monthly management accounts, The Boards committees reportsand information which enable them to scrutinise the Companys The Board is assisted by various standing committees which report performance against agreed objectives.
The membership of these committees is reviewed regularly by the Board.
Diversity These committees all have clearly dened terms of reference which 3i Infrastructure currently has two women on its Board of seven areavailable at www.
The terms of reference non-executive Directors, thus exceeding the 25% benchmark for FTSE ofthe Audit Committee, of the Nominations Committee and of the 100 companies set by Lord Davies of Abersoch in a review of women Remuneration Committee provide that no one other than the particular onboards, commissioned by the government and published in committee chairman and members may attend meetings, unless invited February2011.
to attend by the relevant committee.
The Companys policy is to have a Board with a diverse range of skills Remuneration Committee and professional backgrounds.
To that end it will continue to ensure that in making appointments to the Board it, and any executive search rm The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Philip Austin, is charged with that assists it, will consider a wide range of candidates from different reviewing the scale and structure of the non-executive Directors backgrounds while making appointments solely on merit.
remuneration, and is constituted by all the independent non-executive Directors Peter Sedgwick, Philip Austin, Steven Wilderspin, Sir John Directors independence Collins, Charlotte Valeur and Florence Pierre.
All members served throughout the year.
The Remuneration Committee has had two All the Directors, with the exception of Paul Waller, who has been a 3i meetings in the year to 31 March 2012, attended by all members.
Group nominee to the Board since the Companys IPO in March 2007, are considered by the Board to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
Nominations Committee The Board assesses and reviews the independence of each of the Directors at least annually, having regard to the potential relevance and The Nominations Committee, chaired by Peter Sedgwick, also comprises materiality of a Directors interests and relationships.
No Director was Philip Austin and Sir John Collins.
All members served throughout the materially interested in any contract or arrangement subsisting during or year.
The Committee has held two meetings in the year to 31 March 2012, at the end of the financial year in relation to the business of the Company.
As a non-independent Director, and not being a member of the The Committee is charged with interviewing potential candidates for Management Engagement Committee, Paul Waller did not participate in theBoard, but final decisions on nominations will be taken by the entire the Boards evaluation of the performance of the Investment Adviser.
The Nominations Committee can avail itself of the services of external search consultancies.
No new appointments were made or assessed during the year.
Training and development The Company has developed a framework within which training for As well as seeking an appropriate balance of expertise and experience, Directors is planned, with the objective of ensuring Directors understand especially in finance and infrastructure, the nominations process has the duties and responsibilities of being a director of a listed company and totake account of the residence of Directors, as the majority of Directors the business environment of the Company.
All Directors are required to have to be non-resident in the UK and for practical reasons relating continually update their skills and maintain their familiarity with the tothe conduct of the Companys affairs most are resident in the Company and its business.
Presentations on different aspects of the Channel Islands.
Companys business are made regularly to the Board, usually by the The Committee has been reviewing succession planning to ensure that Investment Adviser.
processes and plans are in place with regards to Board appointments On appointment, all Directors have discussions with the Chairman and dealing with succession.
Company Secretary, following which appropriate briengs on the responsibilities of Directors, the Companys business and the Companys Audit Committee procedures and, where appropriate, briengs on the infrastructure The Audit Committee, chaired by Steven Wilderspin, also comprises market are arranged.
The Company provides opportunities for Directors Philip Austin, Sir John Collins and Charlotte Valeur.
All members served to obtain a thorough understanding of the Companys business and the throughout the year.
The qualications of the members of the Audit industry it operates in by meeting senior members of the investment Committee are set out in the biographical details of the Directors on advisory team who in turn can arrange, as required, visits to portfolio page 46.
All the members of the Audit Committee are independent investments or support teams.
The Board is satisfied that the Audit During the year, the Directors met with the CEO of a portfolio company Committeechairman, Steven Wilderspin, has recent and relevant togain an insight into that companys industry dynamics and challenges, financial experience.
as well as to understand how that companys management team Governance 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 53 During the year, there were six meetings of the Audit Committee, Investment Committee attended by all members.
As outlined on page 50, the Board as a whole acts as the During the year, the Audit Committee: InvestmentCommittee.
reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control environment Management Engagement Committee oftheCompany and the Companys compliance with its : The Board formally constituted a Management Engagement Committee in September 2011 to carry out the annual evaluation of the Investment reviewed and recommended to the Board the accounting Adviser which, in previous years, had been undertaken by all disclosurescomprised in the half yearly and annual financial independent non-executive Directors ie all Directors with the exception statements of the Company: of the 3i Group nominee, Paul Waller.
The Committee is chaired by reviewed the scope of the annual external audit plan and the external PeterSedgwick and also comprises Philip Austin, Sir John Collins, audit findings: Steven Wilderspin, Charlotte Valeur and Florence Pierre, all of whom were appointed upon the constitution of the Committee.
received relevant reports from internal audit, control and compliance functions of key service providers: While the remit of the Committee is to manage all aspects of the relationship with the Investment Adviser, its principal function is to oversaw the Companys relations with its external auditors, including consider annually, and recommend to the Board, whether the assessing the conduct and effectiveness of the audit process and the continuedappointment of the Investment Adviser is in the best auditors independence and objectivity, recommending the auditors interestofthe Company and shareholders, and to give reasons for reappointment and approving the auditors fees: itsrecommendation.
TheCommittee also reviews the terms of the reviewed the calculation of the advisory and performance fees of the Investment Advisory Agreement.
Investment Adviser with advice from the auditors, in line with the policy During the year, there were four meetings of the Management of the Audit Committee concerning conicts of interest and the Engagement Committee, attended by all members.
During the year, payment of fees for non-audit services: the Committee monitored the overall relationship and among specic reviewed the Companys compliance with its regulatory obligations topics it: inJersey, including a report on the proposed Codes of Practice for reviewed reports from industry analysts, comparing the performance Certied Funds from the Companys Compliance Officer, and their of listed infrastructure investment companies, including an analysis of impact on the Company.
These Codes of Practice subsequently came the terms of their advisory agreements and fees charged: into force on 2 April 2012: monitored and reviewed the Investment Advisers performance against conducted a review of the Financial Reporting Councils report, the Companys targets and general market conditions: Guidance on Audit Committees, with reference to the Committees terms of reference, and updated the Committees responsibilities and reviewed the quality, timeliness, accuracy and relevance of the processes where necessary: information provided to the Board, including reviews of portfolio company performance: and conducted a review of the risk assessment process in the Company: and reviewed non-investment services provided by the Investment Adviser.
met with the external auditors in the absence of the Investment Adviser.
The Audit Committee has reviewed auditor performance during the year, The Company Secretary considering performance, objectivity, independence and relevant The Company has appointed State Street Secretaries Jersey Limited experience, and concluded that Ernst & Young LLPs appointment as the formerly Mourant & Co.
Secretaries Limited as Company Secretary.
Companys auditors should be continued.
Ernst & Young LLP have been the Companys auditors since inception in 2007 and the audit has not All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company been re-tendered.
Secretary and legal advisers to the Company, who advise the Board, through the Chairman, on governance matters.
The Companys Articles The Audit Committee monitors the Companys policy for non-audit of Association and the schedule of matters reserved for the Board services to ensure that the provision of such services by the external oritsduly authorised committees for decision provide that the auditor does not impair the auditors independence or objectivity.
In order appointmentand removal of the Company Secretary would be a to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence, the chairman of the matterfor the full Board.
Audit Committee is required to approve all non-audit work undertaken, for the Company and its subsidiaries, by the auditors, in advance and The Board reviewed the Company Secretarys performance during asageneral rule the auditor will not be engaged on investment-related theyear.
However, exceptions to this may be permitted if i the Company isacting in a consortium, ii the audit rm is considered a specialist in the sector, or iii the auditor is best placed to undertake the work throughits knowledge of the Companys financial systems, procedures and internal controls.
The auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, provided non-audit services for fees totalling 17,000 for the year to March 2012 2011: 14,500.
In previous years, and in line with the Companys policy, Ernst & Young LLP also provided non-audit services to support the transaction activity conducted by the Group during the year in relation to certain portfolio companies.
The fees for these services are generally borne by the underlying portfolio companies, and therefore are not included in the expenses ofthe Group.
No such fees were paid to Ernst & Young this year.
54 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Corporate governance statement continued the Investment Adviser and the service providers prepare valuations Relations with shareholders and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a good relationship Companys activities and review its performance: with the Companys shareholders.
The Chairman maintains a dialogue the Investment Advisers compliance and internal audit departments with shareholders on strategy, corporate governance and Directors continually review the Investment Advisers operations: remuneration as required.
Shareholders are offered the opportunity tomeet with the Chairman and with the Senior Independent Director.
the Investment Adviser and the service providers prepare the half-yearly and annual accounts of the Group and monitor all Senior members of the investment advisory team also meet with the associated financial reporting processes: and Companys principal institutional shareholders to discuss the Companysperformance.
the Investment Adviser and the service providers notify the Board of any changes in accounting standards which may impact the Companys The Board receives reports from the Companys brokers and other significant accounting policies or any other statutory requirements advisers on shareholder issues.
which may subsequently impact the financial statements.
The Company also uses its AGM to communicate with its shareholders.
The Company does not have a separate internal audit function as it is not At the AGM, business presentations are made by the Chairman and deemed appropriate given the structure of the Company, although this is senior members of the investment advisory team.
The chairman of the reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
Audit Committee is also available to answer shareholders questions.
TheNotice of AGM for 2011 was dispatched to shareholders not less Principles and processes than20 working days before the meeting.
At that meeting, voting on eachresolution was taken on a poll and the results were made The Company adopts a set of core values and controls, which include: availableon the Companys website.
a planning framework which incorporates a Board approved mediumterm strategy: Portfolio management formal business and operating risk reviews which evaluate the potential financial impact and likelihood of identied risks and possible andvotingpolicy new risk areas: In relation to unquoted investments, the Companys approach is to seek to add value to the businesses in which it invests through the extensive the setting of control, mitigation and monitoring procedures and the experience, resources and contacts of the investment advisory team.
review of actual occurrences, identifying lessons to be learnt: Inrelation to quoted equity investments, the Companys policy is to a comprehensive system of financial reporting to the Board, based exercise voting rights on matters affecting the interests of the Company.
onan annual budget with monthly reporting of actual results, analysisofvariances, scrutiny of key performance measures and Internal control regular reforecasting: The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups own system of regular treasury reports to the Board, which analyse the funding internal control.
The Audit Committee reviewed the systems requirements, track the generation and use of capital and the volume effectiveness this year and reported its conclusions to the Board.
ofliquidity and record the level of compliance with the Companys The internal control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate funding objectives: the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement well dened procedures governing the appraisal and approval of or loss.
In assessing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls investments, including detailed investment and divestment approval for the year, the Board made reference to the requirements of the procedures, incorporating appropriate levels of authority and regular Turnbull Guidance.
post-investment reviews: and The Board has contractually delegated investment advisory and support an Audit Committee which considers significant control matters and services to its key service providers and their contractual obligations receives relevant reports from key service providers compliance, encompass the implementation of systems of internal control, including control or internal audit functions.
financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The Audit Committee of the Company receives reports on the control systems and their operation from its main service providers, and is responsible for reviewing these reports for determining the effectiveness of internal controls.
Key procedures designed to provide effective internal control for the year under review and up to the date of this Report include: the Investment Advisory and UK Support Services agreements specically define the roles and responsibilities of the Investment Adviser and the service providers.
These agreements set out information and reporting systems for monitoring the Companys investments and their performance: the Board considers and approves Company strategy and approves a budget on an annual basis: reports on the planning, forecasting and controlling of expenditure and the making of investments are regularly submitted to the Board and reviewed in detail: the Investment Advisers procedures for evaluating investments include detailed appraisals and due diligence:
