Corporate governance report Independence In this section In considering director independence, the Board has taken into consideration the guidance provided by the Code.
Of 41 UK Corporate Governance Code the non-executive directors, Kenichi Miyanaga has been 41 Board composition appointed by a significant shareholder, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation, and he is therefore not considered to be 41 Board effectiveness independent.
The Board, having given thorough consideration to the matter, considers the other six non-executive directors 42 Relationships with shareholders to be independent, notwithstanding the fact that Giles Weaver has served on the Board for twelve years.
Taking into 42 Board evaluation consideration his independence of character and judgement, 43 Board training his asset management background and other relevant external experience, the Board reiterates its view that Giles remains an 43 Risk management independent non-executive director.
Giles will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
44 Board committees Board changes The Board has given careful consideration to its structure and UK Corporate Governance Code its balance and is continuing to refresh Board and committee The Company has complied throughout the year with the UK membership in an orderly manner.
Richard Mully joined the Corporate Governance Code the Code except where noted in Board as an independent non-executive director on 23 April the report below.
We have also considered the new edition of 2012 and Rod MacRae was appointed as an executive director the Code, published in September 2012, applicable for the 2013 on 1 October 2012.
Gerhard Fusenig resigned from his position financial year, and are working to ensure full compliance with as a non-executive director on 7 March 2012 and, as mentioned its provisions during the forthcoming financial year.
This report above, Giles Weaver will retire from the Board at the conclusion describes Aberdeen's corporate governance arrangements, of the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
A consequence of this explaining how the Group has applied the principles of the series of changes is that, for a short period during the year, we Code.
did not comply with the Code requirements on the number of independent directors.
The Board remains of the opinion that its Board composition size and composition should reflect the needs of the business The Board currently comprises the Chairman, seven nonand seeks to achieve this in compliance with the Code.
executive directors and six executive directors.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, clearly defined Board effectiveness and have been approved by the Board.
The Chairman, Roger Cornick, is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring Summary of Board meetings its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
The Chief Executive, The Board met eight times during the year to review financial Martin Gilbert, is responsible for the day to day management performance and strategy and to follow a formal schedule of the Group.
Anita Frew continues as the Senior Independent of matters reserved for its decision, which includes the Director, providing a sounding board for the Chairman and setting of Group goals, objectives, budgets and other plans.
serving as an intermediary for the other directors, where Comprehensive board papers, comprising an agenda and formal necessary.
Further information regarding the experience of the reports and briefing papers, are sent to directors in advance of Board is given in their biographies on pages 36 to 39. each meeting.
Throughout their period in office, directors are continually updated by means of written and oral reports, from All directors are subject to annual election by shareholders.
senior executives and external advisers, on the Groups business and the competitive and regulatory environments in which it operates, as well as on legal, environmental, social, governance and other relevant matters.
com 41 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED In addition to its formal business, the Board received a number discussions with major shareholders and the Board receives of briefings and presentations from senior executives, local copies of all research published on the Group.
Investors are management and external advisers covering a wide range of encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting at which topics relevant to the Group's business.
The Board continued they have an opportunity to ask questions.
with its policy of making periodic visits to the Group's key The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all overseas offices in order to meet local management and directors and the chairmen of each of the Board committees clients and to obtain an understanding of the local business are available to answer questions.
The Board visited the Singapore, Philadelphia Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns and Paris offices during the year and directors also visited which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief other overseas offices on an individual basis to meet with Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which local management and staff.
On each of these overseas such contact is inappropriate.
"The Group continues to offer visits, the Board has received presentations from local major shareholders the opportunity to meet any or all of the management on local and regional business conditions and ""at Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, the Chairman of desk"" presentations from the local business teams."
Whilst in the remuneration committee and any new directors.
The Group Singapore, several members of the Board took advantage of the will continue its policy of announcing the number of proxy location to visit either the Hong Kong, Tokyo or Sydney offices votes cast on resolutions at the Annual General Meeting and in order to meet with local staff and clients.
Details of the individual directors' attendance at Board Conflicts of interest meetings are shown in the table below: The Board confirms that it has considered and authorised any Maximum conflicts or potential conflicts of interest in accordance with the possible Meetings Group's existing procedures and has also implemented specific attendance attended guidelines to address any potential conflicts that may arise in the future.
The Board has specifically considered the other Roger Cornick 8 8 appointments held by directors, details of which are contained Martin Gilbert 8 8 in their biographies on pages 36 to 39 and has confirmed that Anita Frew 8 8 it believes that each is able to devote sufficient time to fulfil the duties required of them under the terms of their contracts or Julie Chakraverty 8 8 letters of appointment.
Gerhard Fusenig 3 3 Andrew Laing 8 8 Board evaluation Kenichi Miyanaga 8 8 A formal process has been established, led by the Chairman, Richard Mully 4 4 for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its appointed committees and each director, to ensure that they Jim Pettigrew 8 8 continue to act effectively and efficiently and to fulfil their Bill Rattray 8 8 respective duties, and to identify any training requirements.
Anne Richards 8 8 In contrast to the previous two Board evaluation exercises, Sir Malcolm Rifkind 3 2 which were carried out by an external consultant, this year's Simon Troughton 8 8 review was undertaken internally with the Chairman having received the advice of an external consultant, MWM Consulting, Giles Weaver 8 8 who did not provide the Group with any other services.
The Hugh Young 8 8 Chairman undertook interviews with each member of the Board and this was followed up with discussion at Board and committee meetings.
Relationships with shareholders The Group places great importance on communication with The non-executive directors also met without the Chairman investors and aims to keep shareholders informed by means present to discuss the results of the evaluation of the of regular communication with institutional shareholders, Chairmans performance, having taken into consideration the analysts and the financial press throughout the year.
Annual views of the executive directors, and the results of this meeting and interim reports and interim management statements are were subsequently discussed between the Senior Independent widely distributed to other parties who may have an interest Director and the Chairman.
Additionally, the Chairman and the in the Groups performance and these documents, together non-executive directors held a meeting without the executive with copies of investor presentations, are also made available directors present at which the executive directors' performance on the website.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director make was discussed.
regular reports to the Board on investor relations and on specific 42 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 during the year, to discuss Eurozone-related issues and the Board training anticipated fallout from a sovereign collapse.
Additionally, an All directors have access to independent professional advice, external consultant visited the London office in April to deliver if required, at the Companys expense, as well as to the a presentation on managing high-impact low-probability advice and services of the Company Secretary.
From time to time, the risk committee and executive appointed to the Board receive a full, formal and tailored management undertake blue sky risk assessment exercises induction, which includes meetings with relevant members and the issues identified are discussed and taken forward as of senior management, in order to help them gain a detailed appropriate.
understanding of the Group and its activities.
During the year under review, the new director undertook induction training, Internal control which provided him with a wide range of input, including copies The risk management framework includes a sound system of of past meeting papers and other governance information, internal controls that are designed to: including the current strategy and details of the Company's Identify and appraise all risks related to achieving the processes and procedures.
The induction plan also offers the Groups objectives including all business, operational, opportunity for a new director to meet with members of the reputational, financial and regulatory risks: Board and the executive in order to better understand their roles and the operations of the Group.
Manage and control risk appropriately rather than eliminate it: The Company Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman, is responsible for facilitating this induction programme, ensuring Provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against good information flow between the Board, its committees material misstatement or loss: and management, and assisting with directors continuing Ensure that appropriate internal controls are embedded professional development needs.
Directors are also advised, at within the business processes and form part of the Groups the time of their appointment, of the legal and other duties and culture, which emphasises clear management responsibility obligations arising from the role of a director of a listed company and accountabilities: and are reminded of these duties and obligations on a regular basis.
All directors are obliged to undertake a required level of Respond quickly to emerging risks within the Group and the continuing professional development training on an annual basis, external business environment: and a mixture of both structured and unstructured training.
Include procedures for reporting any control failings or weaknesses to the appropriate level of management Risk management together with the details of corrective action.
Risk management has been implemented in a top down fashion Responsibility lies with the risk management committee, throughout the Group, starting at Board and GMB level, through operating under terms of reference approved by the Board and to the individual operational departments.
The audit and risk chaired by the Group Head of Risk, for embedding the system committees support the Board in discharging its oversight of controls within the day-to-day operations of the Group duties with regard to internal control, risk management and and maintaining a strong control culture which emphasises capital adequacy.
These committees also have responsibility for clear management accountabilities.
The committee drives ensuring that the Group strategy is informed and aligned with the process of reporting and monitoring critical risks, issues the Boards risk appetite, as set out in a formal Board statement.
It serves to reconcile the key risks The risk preferences arising from Board and committee and issues identified by the business with those raised by discussions feed through to the planning processes for the the Groups monitoring functions and provides assurance to individual business units whilst, at a higher level, help to define the Board that risks and issues are adequately escalated and the overall risk appetite relating to economic capital, cashflow managed.
and earnings at risk and is embedded in the strategic planning process.
The Board is also responsible for the Internal Capital Membership of the committee comprises executive directors Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP, a process required and senior management from all business functions.
The by the UK regulator, which summarises the risk management committee meetings are also attended by the heads of the framework and regulatory capital requirements of UK regulated primary control oversight functions comprising the following: entities.
The compliance team reviews the effectiveness of controls Throughout the year, the Board continued its review of the that ensure compliance with regulatory requirements in complex risks facing the Group, with the risk committee each jurisdiction in which the Group operates: reviewing recurring thematic risk topics.
Specifically, focus The legal team is responsible for ensuring that the Group continued on derivatives risk management a topical issue complies with statutory requirements globally: facing asset managers and financial markets in general.
A Eurozone risk working group was formed, and met frequently www.
com 43 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The business risk department is responsible for the Board committees management and oversight of operational risk: The Board has appointed the following committees to assist in The market risk team covers the risk profiles within the the execution of its duties.
All committees operate on written various investment strategies as well as the credit risk terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and which associated with the counterparties with whom Aberdeen are available on the Companys website, and the Chairman of conducts its business: each committee reports to each meeting of the Board.
Each of the committees is authorised to obtain, at the Group's The internal audit function reviews the effectiveness of all expense, external legal or other professional advice to assist controls, either by reviewing the methods and findings of in the performance of its duties.
Only the members of each the other independent monitoring functions, or by directly committee are entitled to attend its meetings but others, such auditing the controls operated by management.
as senior management and external advisers, may be invited to The heads of these functions, with the exception of internal attend, as appropriate.
audit, each report to the Group Head of Risk who, while also a The composition of the committees is reviewed annually, taking director of the Group, in turn, reports to the Chief Executive and into consideration the recommendations of the nominations also attends and reports at meetings of the risk and the audit committee.
The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chief Audit committee Executive as well as having unrestricted access to the Chairman Composition of the audit committee.
The audit committee is chaired by Jim Pettigrew.
He is The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of supported by three independent non-executive directors, Julie internal controls and the ongoing management of significant Chakraverty, Anita Frew and Giles Weaver.
The Board is satisfied matters.
Furthermore, the audit committee is responsible that all of the committees members have recent and relevant for ensuring appropriate internal controls are in place for the commercial and financial knowledge and experience to satisfy Group financial consolidation and reporting processes.
These the provisions of the Code, by virtue of their holding or having bespoke controls are monitored and maintained through the held various executive and non-executive roles in other financial risk management framework which addresses key financial and asset management institutions.
Additionally, Jim Pettigrew reporting risks, including risks arising from changes in the and Giles Weaver are chartered accountants.
Effectiveness is assessed Responsibilities through quarterly self-certification and independent testing of The committees role is to assist the Board in discharging its the controls.
The integrity of the Companys external reporting duties and responsibilities for financial reporting, internal is further supported by a number of processes and steps to control and risk management, and the appointment and provide the assurance over the completeness and accuracy remuneration of an independent external auditor.
These include internal management reviews, committee is also responsible for reviewing the scope and external verification, reviews by the audit committee and by the results of audit work and its cost effectiveness, and the Board of directors.
independence and objectivity of the auditor.
Our operational risk system allows us to monitor, in detail, In order to ensure the objectivity and independence of the actual and potential risks and the expected financial impact of auditor, the committee has approved a comprehensive policy these on the Group, ensuring a stringent and comprehensive to regulate the provision of non-audit services by the Groups framework for controlling risk, with onward reporting to external auditor.
The policy provides details of the types of the audit and risk committees.
More information on the service which are and are not permitted and those which require specific risks facing the Group can be found on page 31 to the explicit prior approval of the committee.
Permitted non- 33 and further details on the operation of the audit and risk audit services include the provision of tax compliance services: committees are detailed below.
the provision of certain recruitment services: and acting as reporting accountant in appropriate circumstances, provided there is no element of valuation work involved.
The provision of tax advisory services, due diligence transaction services and litigation services may be permitted with the committees prior approval.
The provision of internal audit services, valuation work and any other activity that may give rise to any possibility of self-review are not permitted under any circumstance.
The committee also has responsibility for reviewing the Group's arrangements on whistle blowing, ensuring that appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise, in confidence, matters of possible impropriety, with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
44 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report on the committee's activities during the year In discharging its duties to review the effectiveness of the During the year, the committee discharged its responsibilities, control environment, the committee also approved the under its terms of reference, by: 2011 12 Control Assurance Report produced by PWC.
This report is available to clients and consultants.
The report a reviewing the Groups draft 2011 financial statements and describes the key roles in relation to Aberdeens investment 2012 interim results statement prior to discussion and management services for equity, fixed income, multi asset approval by the Board, and reviewing the external auditors portfolios: and some parts of the property portfolio.
reports thereon: The members of the committee also met, individually, with b reviewing the continuing appropriateness of the Group's the executive throughout the year, and this provided a forum accounting policies: for discussion outwith the formality of the five meetings held c reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the during the year.
The Chairman reports back on these meetings Groups 2012 financial statements, receiving and reviewing to the committee where appropriate.
confirmations of auditor independence and approving the terms of engagement and proposed fees for the 2012 The committee carried out a review of the effectiveness of audit: the external audit process in the year and considered the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc.
The review covered all aspects d making recommendations to the Board for a resolution to of the global audit service including, amongst other factors, be put to shareholders to approve the re-appointment of the quality of the staff, the expertise, the resources, and the the external auditor: independence of KPMG Audit Plc.
The committee also took e reviewing managements annual report on the Groups into consideration the levels of fees paid for the global services system of internal control and its effectiveness, reporting provided by the auditor.
Consideration was also given to the to the Board on the results of this review and receiving likelihood of a withdrawal of the auditor from the market and, regular updates on key risks and controls: it was noted that there were no contractual obligations which f reviewing the compliance and internal audit departments would restrict the choice of alternative auditor.
The committee terms of reference, their work programmes and receiving agreed that it was appropriate to recommend to the Board regular reports on their work during the year: that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed as auditor for a further g receiving reports from the Group Head of Risk: and year and, accordingly a resolution will be put to shareholders at the 2013 Annual General Meeting recommending their h carrying out an annual performance evaluation exercise reappointment.
and noting the satisfactory operation of the committee.
The committee received a number of regular reports at each Meetings and attendance of its meetings during the year.
Reports are received from The committee operates under formal terms of reference risk, compliance, internal audit and finance in order that the and held five meetings during the year, with representatives committee can carry out its role.
The Group's external auditor of KPMG Audit Plc in attendance at each meeting.
Other also provided regular reports, both written and verbal, to each regular attendees at the meetings of the committee included of the meetings.
The committee continues to look to ensure the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Finance that issues and matters presented to them are resolved in a Director and the other members of the Board, the Head of timely manner.
Risk, the Head of Internal Audit, the Compliance Officer, the General Counsel and the Deputy Finance Director.
In addition, Representatives of each of the relevant divisions are invited the risk committee is scheduled to hold no less than four to attend and present their reports in person.
During the year meetings per annum, three of which are to be held on the under review, the committee requested and received reports same days as the meetings of the audit committee, in order to on the operations of the compliance division, looking in depth facilitate appropriate interaction between the two committees.
at their levels of staffing, timelines of reporting and of matters To assist in this interaction, a standing agenda item for the under review.
meetings of the audit committee is to receive an oral report As part of its review of the Group's financial statements, the from the Chairman of the risk committee, providing an update committee received detailed presentations from the Finance on matters relevant to the audit committee of those issues Director on impairment testing, accounting for bonus awards considered by the risk committee.
and investments in new fund launches.
There was full attendance at all meetings by members, as Other topics covered on finance included cash management, shown in the table below: counterparty risk, transfer pricing and developments in narrative reporting in annual reports as well as updating the committee on developments in accounting standards.
The committee encouraged management in its attempts to 'cut clutter' in the 2011 annual report and reduce the number of pages by removing repetition and immaterial disclosures.
com 45 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED fourteen directors of whom three 21% are women.
We remain Maximum of the opinion that appointments to the Board should be made possible Meetings relative to a number of different criteria, including diversity attendance attended of gender, background and personal attributes, alongside the Jim Pettigrew 5 5 appropriate skill set, experience and expertise.
We will continue to insist that long lists and short lists of possible appointments Julie Chakraverty 5 5 to the Board reflect that position.
Anita Frew 5 5 Meetings and attendance Giles Weaver 5 5 The committee operates under formal terms of reference and held four meetings during the year.
The Chief Executive was also Nominations committee a regular attendee at the meetings of the committee.
There was Composition full attendance at all meetings by the members, as shown in the The nominations committee is chaired by Roger Cornick and table below: he is supported by two independent non-executive directors, Anita Frew and Simon Troughton.
All members served on the Maximum committee throughout the year.
possible Meetings attendance attended Responsibilities Roger Cornick 4 4 The committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and for recommending new Anita Frew 4 4 directors for appointment to the Board.
The Board, as a whole, Simon Troughton 4 4 has responsibility for the appointment of new directors and for nominating them for election by shareholders at the first opportunity following their appointment.
The committee is also Remuneration committee responsible for considering and making recommendations to Composition the Board on succession planning for directors and other senior The remuneration committee is chaired by Simon Troughton, executives.
and he is supported by two independent non-executive directors, Anita Frew and Giles Weaver.
Each member of the Report on the committee's activities during the year committee served throughout the year.
Richard Mully was During the year, the committee: appointed to the committee after the year end in October a reviewed the proposals for rotation and re-election of 2012.
Sir Malcom Rifkind served on the committee up until his directors at the Annual General Meeting: retirement from the Board at the conclusion of the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
b considered and made recommendations to the Board for the appointment of two new directors: Responsibilities The report on the committee's activities is contained in the c reviewed the succession plans for the executive directors remuneration report, as set out on pages 50 to 62, and in the and the other members of the GMB: summary of Board meetings section on page 41 and 42. d discussed the results of the annual performance evaluation exercise: and Meetings and attendance The committee operates under formal terms of reference and e noted the satisfactory operations of the committee and held six meetings during the year.
Details of the individual reviewed its terms of reference.
attendance of members at the meetings is shown in the table below: In respect of the appointment of Richard Mully, the committee appointed an external search consultant, Odgers Berndtson, Maximum which has no other connection with the Group, and provided a possible Meetings full specification of the skill set required from a new appointee.
attendance attended In addition, Richard was interviewed by the members of the committee and other members of the Board and was thereafter Simon Troughton 6 6 approved by the FSA prior to being appointed.
Anita Frew 6 6 Board diversity Giles Weaver 6 6 We are long-standing supporters of diversity in the boardroom Sir Malcom Rifkind 2 1 and we are supportive of the Financial Reporting Councils aims to encourage diversity in the boardroom and, more generally, throughout the Group.
Our current Board is made up of 46 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Risk committee staff from different divisions throughtout the year.
Earlier in the year the committee requested updates on the developments Composition in the Eurozone from the newly established internal Eurozone The risk committee was chaired during the year by Giles Weaver working group, set up under the Chairmanship of the Group and he was supported by four independent non-executive Head of Business Risk.
The committee has continued to monitor directors, Anita Frew, Richard Mully, Jim Pettigrew and Simon developments in the Eurozone, through regular reporting to the Troughton.
Richard Mully joined the committee in April 2012 committee and the holding of an informal committee meeting and was appointed Chairman of the committee subsequent to to discuss the matter further.
The committee has also focused the year end in October 2012.
Julie Chakraverty was appointed on cash management within the Group, receiving updates on to the committee subsequent to the year end and all other the management of both the Group's and clients' cash balances.
members served throughout the year.
The committee has also continued to receive advice from PWC, Responsibilities who attend meetings on a periodic basis to provide guidance on The committee has oversight of the risk management the continuing development of the committee.
Representatives framework and, more specifically, the effectiveness of risk of PWC have also held informal meetings with the Chairman of management, governance and compliance activity within the the committee and the Group Head of Risk in order to provide Group.
The committee also advises the Board on considerations further assistance and discuss relevant matters.
and processes relevant to setting the risk appetite and related tolerances.
In addition, the committee has a responsibility Meetings and attendance to review the implementation of appropriate procedures to The committee operates under formal terms of reference and identify and control all fundamental operational, financial, held four formal meetings during the year, three of which were reputational and regulatory risks within the Group.
The held on the same day as the meetings of the audit committee, committee has appointed PWC to provide independent in order to facilitate appropriate interaction between the two technical support and advice and to assist in the development committees.
In addition to the members of the committee, of the risk management framework.
other regular attendees at the meetings included the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and the other members of the Report on the committee's activities during the year Board, the Head of Risk, the Head of Internal Audit, the General During the year the committee discharged its responsibilities, Counsel and representatives of KPMG Audit plc.
There was full under its terms of reference and, in particular: attendance at all meetings by members, as shown in the table a reviewed the effectiveness of risk management, below: governance and compliance activity within the Group: Maximum b advised the Board on considerations and processes for possible Meetings setting the Group's risk appetite and related tolerances: attendance attended c sought to ensure that senior management has in place Richard Mully 3 3 procedures and mechanisms to identify and control all Anita Frew 4 4 fundamental prudential operational, financial, reputational, and regulatory risks: Jim Pettigrew 4 4 d reviewed and recommended the internal capital adequacy Simon Troughton 4 4 assessment process: Giles Weaver 4 4 e sought to ensure that all risks were being addressed by management in line with the Group's risk appetite: and f reviewed the committee's terms of reference, carrying out an annual performance evaluation exercise and noting the satisfactory operation of the committee.
The committee received a number of regular reports at each of its four meetings during the year.
The Group Head of Risk, Rod MacRae, provided updates to the committee on each area of the risk division's functions, including business, investment and market risk, as well as reporting on legal and compliance issues.
The committee has met informally on a number of occasions on the year under review and the members of the committee have also continued to meet independently with the executive and www.
