Board of directors 2 ROGER CORNICK MARTIN GILBERT CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE Background and experience Background and experience Before coming to Aberdeen, Roger was with Perpetual Martin trained as a chartered accountant prior to moving PLC for over 20 years where, latterly, he served as deputy into investment management with an Aberdeen firm of chairman.
Roger has over 30 years experience of marketing solicitors.
He is a founding director and shareholder of the and distribution in financial services and is currently a trustee Company.
Martin is also a director of a number of Aberdeenof the River and Rowing Museum.
managed investment trusts and funds' boards.
Date of appointment Date of appointment Martin was appointed to the Board on 1 July 1983.
Roger was appointed to the Board as an independent nonexecutive director on 23 January 2004 and was appointed Other appointments Chairman on 22 January 2009.
Roger is also Chairman of the FirstGroup PLC chairman nominations committee.
British Sky Broadcasting Group PLC non-executive director Other appointments The River and Rowing Museum trustee 1, 2, 3, 4 ANITA FREW SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Background and experience Anita has been a plc director for fourteen years and a plural non-executive director of industrial and financial companies for eleven years.
Anita is currently chair of the responsible business committee of Lloyds Banking Group and a member of its audit and risk committees.
Prior to this, she was a non-executive director of Northumbrian Water, executive director at Abbott Mead vickers PLC, director of corporate development at WPP Group plc, and held various investment and marketing roles at Scottish Provident and Royal Bank of Scotland in her early career.
Date of appointment Anita was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2004.
Other appointments victrex PLC chairman IMI plc non-executive director Lloyds Banking Group plc non-executive director 36 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1, 4 JULIE CHAKRAvERTY ROD MACRAE INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR GROUP HEAD OF RISK Background and experience Background and experience Julie was formerly a board member of UBS Investment Bank Rod is responsible for UK and global risk including regulatory and a non-executive director of the insurance company compliance, legal services, business and investment risk.
Within UBS, she held a number of global Rod joined Aberdeen in 2003, following the acquisition of leadership positions with a specialised background in risk Edinburgh Fund Managers.
She started her financial He graduated with an MA in Economics from the University career 20 years ago at JP Morgan, after graduating with of Edinburgh and is a member of the Institute of Chartered first class honours in Economics from St Johns College, Accountants of Scotland.
Rod is a director of a number of Cambridge.
Date of appointment Date of appointment Julie was appointed to the Board on 4 May 2011.
Rod was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2012.
Other appointments Spirit Pub Company PLC non-executive director ANDREW LAING KENICHI MIYANAGA DEPUTY CHIEF EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Background and experience Background and experience Andrew joined the Group in 1986 with responsibility for Kenichi is a CFA Charterholder and joined Aberdeen through private equity investment.
Andrew was subsequently the business and capital alliance with Mitsubishi UFJ Trust appointed Chief Operating Officer.
Prior to joining Aberdeen, and Banking Corporation.
He has fulfilled various roles Andrew practiced commercial law and was a private equity within the bank, including proprietary investment as well fund manager in Edinburgh.
as corporate strategic planning, and is currently executive officer and general manager in charge of the global asset He graduated from the University of Aberdeen with an MA management business division.
Kenichi graduated with a in Politics and International Relations, and an LLB.
Andrew degree in Economics from Sophia University.
serves on the board of the Investment Managers Association and is also a director of a number of Group subsidiary Date of appointment companies.
Kenichi was appointed to the Board on 26 November 2009.
Date of appointment Andrew was originally appointed to the Board in 1987 and then again on 23 January 2004 and was appointed Deputy Chief Executive in 2008. www.
com 37 BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED 3, 4 RICHARD MULLY BILL RATTRAY INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FINANCE DIRECTOR Background and experience Background and experience Richard was formerly the co-founder and managing partner Bill joined the Group in 1985 as Company Secretary and of Grove International Partners LLP, a major real estate subsequently became Group Financial Controller.
Prior to private equity firm.
He spent much of his 30 year career in joining the Group, Bill trained as a chartered accountant with financial services as an investment banker.
Richard graduated Ernst & Whinney in Aberdeen, qualifying in 1982.
Bill is a with first class honours in Economics from University College director of a number of Group subsidiary companies.
London and also holds an MBA in Finance.
Date of appointment Date of appointment Bill was appointed to the Board on 31 January 1991.
Richard was appointed to the Board on 23 April 2012 and is Chairman of the risk committee.
Other appointments Hansteen Holdings PLC senior independent director ISG PLC non-executive director Alstria Office REIT-AG supervisory board member 1, 4 JIM PETTIGREW ANNE RICHARDS INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER Background and experience Background and experience Jim was formerly chief executive of CMC Markets Plc.
Prior In addition to her role as Chief Investment Officer, Anne is to joining CMC, he was chief operating officer and finance Head of Aberdeen Solutions, and the EMEA region.
Prior to director at Ashmore Group plc, chief financial officer of Aberdeen, she worked for Merrill Lynch and Edinburgh Fund ICAP Plc from 1999-2006 and group treasurer at Sedgewick Managers, where she was chief investment officer and joint Group plc.
Jim is a member of the Council of the Institute of managing director.
Anne graduated with first class honours Chartered Accountants of Scotland and is an LLB.
in Electronics and Electrical Engineering from the University of Edinburgh, and has an MBA from Insead.
Anne is also a Date of appointment Jim was appointed to the Board on 23 April 2010 and is director of a number of funds of hedge funds and funds of Chairman of the audit committee.
private equity funds, all managed by the Aberdeen Group.
Date of appointment Other appointments Anne was appointed to the Board on 22 March 2011.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust Public Limited Company chairman Other appointments AON UK Limited non-executive director The Council of the Duchy of Lancaster trustee Hermes Fund Managers Limited non-executive director The Scottish Chamber Orchestra trustee Pacific Investments non-executive director EveryChild trustee RBC Europe Limited deputy chairman The Court of the University of Edinburgh lay member Clydesdale Bank plc chairman of audit committee and esure Group Holdings Limited non-executive director non-executive director 38 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2, 3, 4 SIMON TROUGHTON HUGH YOUNG INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR GLOBAL HEAD OF EQUITIES Background and experience Background and experience Simon was a partner at Cazenove and Company Limited Hugh is currently Global Head of Equities and Managing before moving to Fauchier Partners in 2003 where he Director of Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Limited.
He became chief operating officer.
He qualified as a chartered founded Singapore based Aberdeen Asia in 1992 and has surveyor having read Land Economy at Cambridge been managing the Group's Asian equities since 1985.
graduated with a BA in Politics from Exeter University.
Hugh is a director of a number of Group subsidiary companies.
Date of appointment Hugh is also a director of a number of Aberdeen-managed Simon was appointed to the Board on 29 July 2009 and is investment trusts and funds' boards.
Chairman of the remuneration committee.
Date of appointment Other appointments Hugh was appointed to the Board on 22 March 2011.
Fauchier Partners non-executive director Redburn Partners Holding Company Limited nonexecutive director 1, 3, 4 GILES WEAvER INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Background and experience Giles is a chartered accountant and was formerly the managing director and chairman of Murray Johnstone Group until its acquisition by Aberdeen in 2000.
Date of appointment Giles was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2000.
Other appointments Tamar European Industrial Fund chairman IRP Property Investments Limited director EP Global Opportunities Trust director 1 Member of the audit committee.
2 Member of the nominations committee.
3 Member of the remuneration committee.
4 Member of the risk committee.
