Group management board The Group management board GMB comprises the six executive directors, plus the following members of senior management: John Brett Ken Fry Global Head of Distribution Chief Operating Officer John joined Aberdeen on 1 November 2011 as Global Head Ken graduated from the University of Essex with a BA in of Distribution.
He joined from Scottish Widows Investment Computer Science and joined Aberdeen with the acquisition of Partnership where latterly he was head of distribution.
John Fredericks Place Holdings in 1989 as Group IT Manager.
He was trained as a lawyer and was previously with Aberdeen until appointed to the GMB in 2006 as Chief Technology Officer and 2003 as Head of Legal.
John is a qualified lawyer, having to his current role in 2008. graduated LLB from the University of Aberdeen.
Paul Griffiths Gordon Brough Global Co-Head of Fixed Income General Counsel & Deputy Group Head of Risk Paul is the Global Co-Head of Fixed Income having joined Gordon joined Aberdeen in February 2009 to head up the Group's Aberdeen in July 2009 via the acquisition of the Credit Suisse legal function having previously been the partner responsible Asset Management business, where he was chief investment for the Group's affairs at Maclay Murray & Spens LLP.
Prior to officer and global head of fixed income.
Paul previously held a its merger with Maclays, Gordon had helped found specialist similar role at AXA Investment Managers, as well as being its law firm, The City Law Partnership.
He was appointed General UK chief executive officer.
Paul graduated with a BSc in Physics Counsel and Deputy Group Head of Risk in 2012.
Gordon is from the University of York.
qualified as a lawyer in both Scots and English law.
Gary Marshall Kerry Christie Head of Americas Global Head of Human Resources Gary was appointed Head of the Americas in January 2010.
Kerry is Global Head of Human Resources and was appointed He is Chief Executive of Aberdeen Asset Management Inc in to the GMB in 2010.
She joined Aberdeen in March 2000 and the US and president of Aberdeen's US mutual fund range, was appointed Head of Human Resources in October 2003.
Gary joined Aberdeen via the acquisition of Kerry graduated from Robert Gordon University with a BA in Prolific Financial Management in 1997 and has had experience Public Administration and a postgraduate diploma in Personnel in many aspects of Aberdeen's operations, having been based in Management and is a chartered member of CIPD.
London and Edinburgh prior to moving to the US.
He graduated with a BSc Hons in Actuarial Mathematics and Statistics from Heriot Watt University in Edinburgh and is a qualified actuary.
Brad Crombie Global Co-Head of Fixed Income Andrew Smith Brad re-joined Aberdeen in 2012 after starting in the Group's graduate trainee programme twelve years ago.
In the interim, Global Head of Property Division he worked at Bank of America Merrill Lynch as a managing Andrew joined Aberdeen in 2002, taking overall responsibility director, running the bank's non-financial corporate and high for Aberdeens international property investment team in 2010. yield credit research team for the EMEA region.
In addition to He previously held senior positions at AMP Asset Management his fixed income leadership role, Brad is also the Global Head of and Henderson Global Investors.
Andrew graduated with a BA High Yield.
He graduated from McGill University with BA and in Geography from the University of Birmingham.
MA degrees and read history at the University of Cambridge.
40 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
