2012 Overview Pages 01 09 Governance Business Review Pages 10 37 Governance Pages 38 57 Corporate Governance statement Financial Statements Pages 58 100 WE HAVE A ROBUST GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE.
WHICH CONTINUES TO DELIVER SUSTAINABLE VALUE.
Gerald Corbett Chairman Corporate Governance Statement Directors The Board is committed to the principles of corporate governance in the The following were Directors of the Company during the year: UK Corporate Governance Code the Code as issued by the Financial Date appointed Reporting Council in May 2010 which applies to financial years beginning Edward Wray Non-executive Chairman 20 August 1999 on or after 29 June 2010 and is available at www.
Gerald Corbett Non-executive Chairman 3 January 2012 The Board has reviewed the content of the Code and will report on David Yu Chief Executive officer 3 April 2006 compliance through this Statement which incorporates the Directors # Stephen Morana Chief Financial officer 25 September 2006 Report, Chairmans Statement, Chief Executive Ofcers Review, Financial Mike McTighe Senior Independent and Operational Review, Principal Risks and Uncertainties and the Non-executive Director 17 October 2008 Directors Remuneration Report by reference.
Ian Dyson Independent Non-executive Director 1 February 2010 As at 30 April 2012, the Company had fully complied with all the Josh Hannah Non-executive Director 21 February 2002 provisions of the Code.
During the year, Gerald Corbett succeeded Fru Hazlitt Independent Edward Wray as Chairman which marked the completion of a transition Non-executive Director 25 March 2005 at Board level.
Baroness Denise Kingsmill Independent Board composition Non-executive Director 1 February 2011 As at 30 April 2012, the Board comprised the Chairman, one Executive Director and four Independent Non-executive Directors and one In certain cases the appointment date reects the Directors appointment non-independent Non-executive Director.
The biographical details of prior to the Companys admission to The London Stock Exchange on 27 October 2010. all Board Directors as at 29 June 2012 are set out on pages 38 and 39 Director retired from the Board of Betfair Group on 6 March 2012. and these include their main commitments outside the Company.
Director retired from the Board of Betfair Group on 31 December 2011.
# Stephen Morana became Interim CEO on 1 January 2012.
During the year various changes were made to the composition of the Board which is explained in further detail below.
The role of the Board The Board is responsible to shareholders for the strategic direction, development and control of the Group.
It therefore approves strategic plans and annual capital and revenue budgets.
It reviews significant investment proposals and the performance of past investments and maintains an overview and control of the Groups operating and financial performance.
It monitors the Groups overall system of internal controls, governance and compliance and ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43 Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued The Board has established and adopted a schedule of matters which are Chief Executive officer reserved for its attention and which are published on the Companys Effective from 1 January 2012, Stephen Morana is acting Interim CEO corporate website at: http: corporate.
com investor-relations and has responsibility for implementing the strategy agreed by the Board corporate-governance.
Included in its responsibilities are: and for the executive management of the Group.
Prior to this, David Yu had responsibility for this role.
Breon Corcoran will join the Company on 1 August 2012 as CEO.
Breons appointment will be formally proposed for election at the Annual General Meeting as notied in the accompanying Notice of Meeting.
Full biographical details of Breon Corcoran are included in the Notice of Meeting.
Senior Independent Director Mike McTighe is the Senior Independent Director and is available to The Board has adopted objective written criteria for the appointment shareholders if they have concerns which are not resolved through the of Directors and the roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive and normal channels of Chairman, CEO or CFO.
In addition, Mike is Non-executive Directors have been dened in writing.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
His biography can be found on page 38.
The Board may delegate authority in the following instances: Non-executive Directors The Company has experienced Non-executive Directors on its Board.
Committees and receive reports on their activities The Board considers Mike McTighe, Ian Dyson, Fru Hazlitt and Baroness Denise Kingsmill to be independent as they are free from any business or investments and other matters as the Board may determine other relationship which could materially inuence their judgement and they represent a strong source of advice and independent challenge.
and the CEO and of delegated authorities for the CEO, CFO and other senior management Josh Hannah is not deemed to be independent under the provisions of the Code.
He has served as a director for over 10 years and intends to step down in the first quarter of 2013.
Under the terms of his letter of The Executive Committee is responsible for reviewing the performance of appointment, which will expire in October 2013, he will seek re-election the business and supporting the CEO in performing his duties.
Biographies at this years annual general meeting as the Board are satisfied that Josh of members the Executive Committee can be found on page 39.
Decisions continues to bring value to the Board.
relating to commercial matters affecting the UK Exchange, International Exchange or Games businesses are delegated to the Chief Commercial All Directors biographies can be found on pages 38 and 39 and will stand officer whose biography can be found on page 39. for re-election in accordance with the Code.
Chairman Other than their fees, which are disclosed on page 55, the Non-executive Gerald Corbett was appointed as Deputy Chairman on 3 January 2012 and Directors received no remuneration from the Company during the year.
succeeded Edward Wray as Chairman on 6 March 2012.
In accordance When Non-executive Directors are considered for appointment, the with the Articles of Association, Gerald will seek election at the Annual Nomination Committee will take into account their other responsibilities General Meeting and further biographical information can be found on in assessing whether they can commit sufficient time to their prospective page 38. directorship.
It is the Chairmans responsibility to ensure that the Board is run smoothly The training needs of Directors and of members of the Boards and that all Directors are fully informed of matters relevant to their roles, Committees are formally considered on an annual basis.
have received a tailored induction and to review their training needs as required.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that appropriate Company Secretary communication is maintained with shareholders and is available to meet Martin Cruddace is the Chief Legal and Regulatory officer and Company with shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good information ows to the Board and its Committees and between senior The Chairman ensures that the Board has the right composition and that management and the Non-executive Directors.
The appointment and the debate is effective and at the right level, involving all members and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
The that appropriate conclusions are drawn.
For Betfair, it is vital that the Company Secretary is responsible through the Chairman, for advising the Chairman is accessible and can play an important role in providing Board on all corporate governance matters and for assisting the Directors support and wise counsel to the CEO and wider management team.
This includes regular corporate The Chairman effectively challenges when required and takes a governance and business issues updates, as well as the use of operational helicopter view of the business.
For Betfair, personality and t are vital site visits and the provision of external courses where required.
and it is of paramount importance that the Chairman complements the CEO and can work well with him and the Board through the next phase of Betfairs evolution.
The Chairman has a key role in instilling behaviours appropriate to a public company environment and is able to maintain relationships with shareholders and other stakeholders, as necessary.
The Chairman has a proven track record as a plc Chairman and currently acts as Chairman to two other public quoted companies.
Gerald Corbetts biography can be found on page 38.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 44 2012 Overview Pages 01 09 Business Review Pages 10 37 Governance Pages 38 57 Financial Statements Pages 58 100 Board attendance Independent advice During the year, there were 10 scheduled Board meetings excluding a two Members of the Board may take independent professional advice in the day off-site meeting which considered the Groups strategy.
The table furtherance of their duties and they have access to the advice and services below shows attendance levels at the scheduled Board and Committee of the Company Secretary, the Head of Legal and the Companys legal meetings held during the year: the numbers in brackets confirm how advisers and external auditors.
many Board meetings each Director was eligible to attend during the year.
Training and development Board Audit Remuneration Nomination During the year, the Company Secretary initiated a comprehensive scheduled Committee Committee Committee AGM induction for newly appointed Directors, tailored to individual Current Directors who requirements and including guidance on requirements of, and Directors served during the year duties in connection with the Code and the Companies Act 2006 as Gerald Corbett 3 3 1 0 0 well as other relevant legislation.
The Board as a whole is updated Stephen Morana 10 10 1 1 as necessary in light of any governance developments as and when they occur.
Mike McTighe 8 10 2 8 5 1 1 Ian Dyson 9 10 4 8 0 1 Conicts of interest Josh Hannah 6 10 0 1 Executive Directors may be permitted to accept one external Fru Hazlitt 8 10 7 5 1 1 Non-executive Director appointment with the Companys prior Baroness approval as long as this is not likely to lead to conicts of interest.
Denise Kingsmill 9 10 4 1 1 The Board has a formal system in place for Directors to declare situational Former Directors who conicts to be considered for authorisation by those Directors who have served during the year no interest in the matter being considered.
The Board believes that the systems it has in place for reporting and considering conicts continues to David Yu 7 7 1 1 operate effectively.
Edward Wray 9 9 5 1 1 Shareholder relations Attends Committee meetings at the invitation of the respective The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the Committee Chairman performance and activities of the Company.
The Company formally updates the market on its financial performance at least four times a year, All Directors are briefed by the use of comprehensive papers circulated at the half year and full year results in December and June respectively, in advance of Board meetings and by presentations at the meetings in the interim management statements in March and September.
The addition to receiving minutes of previous meetings.
Their understanding content of these updates is posted and webcast on the Companys of the Groups business is enhanced by business specic presentations website, together with general information about the Company so as to and operational visits to the Companys businesses.
Separate strategy be available to all shareholders.
The Company has a regular programme of meetings and meetings with senior executives are also held meetings with its major institutional shareholders which provides an throughout the year.
opportunity to discuss, on the back of publicly available information, the progress of the business.
On a more informal basis, the Head of Investor Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting, they were provided Relations regularly reports to the Board the views of major shareholders with all the papers and information relating to that meeting and were in respect of the Company, and the Senior Independent Director and other able to discuss issues arising directly with the Chairman and CEO.
There Non-executive Directors are available and meet shareholders on request are eight Board meetings and a two day off-site meeting currently and are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major scheduled for 2012 13. shareholders.
Annual re-election and appointments The AGM provides a useful interface with private shareholders, many of In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association the Company whom are also customers.
All proxy votes received in respect of each and provision B.
7.1 of the Code which states that all Directors of FTSE 350 resolution at the AGM are counted and the balance for and against, and companies should stand for annual election by shareholders, all current any votes withheld, are indicated.
The chairmen of the Audit, Directors will submit themselves for re-election on an annual basis at the Remuneration and Nomination Committees attend to answer questions.
Board effectiveness evaluation In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Gerald Corbett The Board indicated in last years annual report that a formal assessment and Breon Corcoran will stand for election at the 2012 Annual General of its performance for the year ended 30 April 2011 would be carried out.
Further information is set out in the Notice of Meeting.
It has been agreed to defer formal assessment of its performance until 2013, to allow sufficient time for the Board to adjust to recent changes in Service contracts and letters of appointment composition and the arrival of Breon Corcoran as CEO.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 55.
The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company during normal business hours and at the place of the Annual General Meeting from at least 15 minutes before and until the end of the meeting.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45 Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued The last formal assessment with an external assessor was carried out in The chosen CEO candidate, Breon Corcoran, was a Board member at a 2010 and included a review of issues relating to the Board as a whole, the competitor organisation.
His contract included a Restrictive Covenant performance of the Chairman and the priority of tasks.
The process that prevented him joining a competitor immediately upon resignation.
included the completion of a detailed questionnaire by the Board Following a negotiation between the various parties, it was agreed that Directors and included an opportunity for each Director to make Mr Corcoran would be able to take up his role at Betfair on 1 August 2012. comments.
The areas covered in the questionnaire were the Boards role and its organisation, the Board dynamic and relationships, quality of The chosen Deputy Chairman candidate, Gerald Corbett, joined the Board information ows and decision-making, Board committees, performance on 3 January 2012.
Edward Wray stood down as Chairman on 6 March monitoring and the Boards priority tasks.
The report was subsequently 2012 and Mr Corbett was appointed Chairman on that same date.
discussed between the Chairman and the rest of the Board.
Corporate Responsibility Committee Committees The Committee, which is chaired by Fru Hazlitt, an independent There are four main Committees of the Board which are detailed below.
Non-executive Director, consists of the CEO and the Chief Legal and Each Board Committee has written terms of reference approved by the Regulatory officer and Company Secretary and certain other senior Board, which are available on the Companys website: http: corporate.
executives as shown on page 39. betfair.
The Committee meets at least four times per year and was established Audit Committee to define, support and monitor the execution of Betfairs corporate Ian Dyson has been chairman of the Audit Committee since 17 February responsibility strategy.
Further details of the work of this Committee 2010.
Ian has been identied as having significant recent and relevant can be found on pages 30 and 35. financial experience and his biography can be found on page 38.
The other members of the Audit Committee: Mike McTighe and Baroness Denise Market Disclosure Committee Kingsmill, have extensive commercial experience.
The Chairman of the The Market Disclosure Committee considers and decides upon Board, the CEO and the CFO attend such meetings at the invitation of the matters brought to its attention, which would be likely to give rise to Committees Chairman.
During the year, the Committee met four times.
an obligation to make a market announcement under the FSA Listing Rules.
It comprises the CFO Committee chairman, CEO, Chief Legal and Further details about the Audit Committee and its activities are included Regulatory officer and Company Secretary and Corporate Development in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 47 to 50.
Remuneration Committee Executive Committee Mike McTighe has been chairman of the Remuneration Committee since The Executive Committee, which is chaired by the CEO, consists of June 2009. the Executive Directors and certain other senior executives as shown on page 39.
Ian Dyson and Fru Hazlitt were members of the Committee throughout the year.
The Remuneration Committee met eight times during the year.
The Executive Committee meets formally approximately every four weeks.
The Committee assists the CEO who has day-to-day responsibility Further details about the Remuneration Committee and its activities are for the running of the Groups business.
It develops the Groups strategy included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 57. and annual revenue and capital budgets for Board approval.
It reviews and recommends to the Board any significant investment proposals.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and This Committee monitors the financial and operational performance of nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for appointment the Group and allocates resources within the budgets agreed by the to the Board.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are Board.
It considers employment issues, ensures the Group has an available on the Companys website.
appropriate pool of talent and develops senior management manpower planning and succession plans.
In addition it also ensures that the Groups During the year and in accordance with its terms of reference, the policy on regulation is fullled.
members of the Nomination Committee engaged with the Zygos Partnership, an executive search rm, to assist with and recommend Board diversity potential candidates for the CEO role and also to provide a successor The Board has noted the contents of the Davies Report on Women on to the Chairman through the identication and appointment of a Boards in February 2011 and Code revision to strengthen the principle Deputy Chairman.
28% of the Board is female and we, as a Board, believe that the composition of the Board is based on range and balance of skills, The Chairman, Edward Wray, and the Senior Independent Director, guided knowledge, experience and merit and remains appropriate for a business the Committee throughout the recruitment process for both roles.
process was conducted in an inclusive manner as the Chairman believed it should be a matter for the Board as a whole and as such the majority of Nomination Committee meetings were held during Board meetings.
Comprehensive candidate search briefs were agreed and circulated to the executive search rm.
Thereafter a shortlist of candidates was circulated.
After careful consideration of a range of quality candidates, a number of Gerald Corbett shortlisted candidates were invited for meetings as appropriate.
After Chairman these meetings, a review of the candidates took place and the preferred candidates were recommended for appointment to the Board.
Throughout the process, regular evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and capability were taken into account and the candidates were considered on merit against objective criteria.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 46
