Admiral Group plc 32 Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance continued The UK Corporate Governance Code entities are responsible to the Financial Services Authority The Board complied with the Code in all respects FSA for ensuring compliance with the Groups UK during2012 except for Code E. 1.1, which requires that regulatory obligations and that dealings with the FSA are theSenior Independent Director should attend meetings handled in a constructive, cooperative and transparent with a range of shareholders.
Similar provisions apply in respect of the Groups comprehensive programme of meetings and dialogue international businesses with regard to the relevant with institutional investors and the Chairman makes regulatory authorities in those overseas jurisdictions himself available for meetings with the largest 10 such inwhich the Group also operates.
The views of investors expressed through this dialogue are communicated to the Board as a whole on The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters aregular basis through the Investor Relations report.
reserved for the Boards consideration which is monitored AllDirectors can, therefore, develop an understanding by the Company Secretary and reviewed by the Board on ofissues or concerns of major shareholders should any be an annual basis.
Specific matters reserved to the Board raised.
Feedback from shareholders suggests that these include the approval of: arrangements for communication between the Company t The Groups long term objectives and and its shareholders continue to be viewed by them as corporatestrategy: effective.
The Senior Independent Director is always t Operating and capital budgets, financial results, available to meet with individual shareholders on andany significant changes to accounting practices requestto ensure the Board is aware of any shareholder orpolicies: concerns that cannot be resolved through the routine t The Groups capital structure: mechanisms for investor communications.
t Results and financial reporting: t The system of internalcontrol and risk management: The Admiral Group Board t The Groups overall risk appetite: The Board is the principal decision-making forum for the t Changes to the structure, size and composition Group providing entrepreneurial leadership, both directly oftheBoard, including new appointments: and through its committees, and by delegating authority t Succession plans for the Board and senior to the Executive team.
The Board is responsible for management: organising and directing the affairs of the Group in a t Annual review of its own performance and that manner that is most likely to promote its success for ofitsBoard Committees: thebenefit of its members as a whole.
The Board is t Dividend policy and proposals fordividend payments: accountable to shareholders for setting and achieving t Major acquisitions, disposals, and other theGroups strategic objectives, for the creation and transactionsoutside delegated limits: delivery of strong sustainable financial and operational t Review of the Groups overall corporate performance, for ensuring that in carrying out its duties .
the Groups legal and regulatory obligations are being met, and for ensuring that it operates within appropriately established risk parameters.
The Groups UK regulated Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2012 33 The Board met on seven occasions in 2012 with five of Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the these meetings being held over two days.
The Board Boardand the Committees on which they serve and alsoheld a strategy day devoted entirely to analysis todevote sufficient time to the Group to perform their andchallenge by the Directors, and particularly the Nonduties.
Where Directors are unable to attend meetings Executive Directors, of the strategic objectives of the they receive papers for that meeting giving them the Groups UK and international businesses.
The Chairman opportunity to raise any issues with the Chairman in visits each of the Groups overseas operations every year advance of the meeting.
The number of scheduled and Non-Executive Directors are invited to join either him Boardmeetings and Committee meetings of which or the Chief Executive on one or more of their overseas theyare a member attended by each Director during visits each year.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors 2012is provided in the table below.
and the Chairman met during the year without the Executive Directors being present.
In order to increase their understanding of the operation of the Group belowBoard level, the Non-Executive Directors and theChairman also attended two dinners with members ofthe Groups senior management team without the Executive Directors being present.
Group Risk Nomination Remuneration Scheduled Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings Total meetings held 744 15 Alastair Lyons Chairman 7 1 Henry Engelhardt Chief Executive Officer 7 David Stevens Chief Operating Officer 7 4 Kevin Chidwick Chief Financial Officer 7 i Roger Abravanell 73 Manfred Aldag 6 ii 744 Annette Court iii 74 11 Colin Holmes iv 714 5 Martin Jackson v Keith James 32 Margaret Johnson 74 5 71 Lucy Kellaway 52 4 John Sussens i Roger Abravanel was appointed to the Board with effect from 6 March 2012.
Roger became a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 26 April 2012.
During the year, Roger attended one of the scheduled Board meetings as an observer before he was formally appointed to the Board.
ii Annette Court was appointed to the Board with effect from 21 March 2012.
Annette became a member of the Audit and Group Risk Committees on appointment.
Duringthe year, Annette attended two of the scheduled Board meetings, one Group Risk Committee and one Audit Committee meeting as an observer before she wasformally appointed to the Board.
iii Colin Holmes stepped down from the Remuneration Committee with effect from 26 April 2012 and became a member of the Nomination Committee.
iv Martin Jackson stepped down as Chair of the Audit Committee with effect from 1 January 2012 to become Chair of the Group Risk Committee.
He stepped down asa member of the Audit Committee with effect from 26 April 2012. v Keith James stepped down from the Board, Audit and Nomination Committees at the AGM in April 2012.
Admiral Group plc 34 Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance continued Agendas and papers are circulated to the Board in a The overall results of the evaluation were considered timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee bythe Chairman and the principal recommendations meetings.
These papers are supplemented by information presented by him for review and discussion by the specifically requested by the Directors from time to time.
The evaluation concluded that All Board and Committee meetings during the year good progress had been achieved in most of the areas wereheld in an open atmosphere with their Chairmen identified for action in the last Board evaluation and that encouraging robust and constructive challenge and the Board and its Committees had continued to work very debate.
All Directors have, therefore, been able to bring effectively in relation to most dimensions.
Improvements independent judgement to bear on issues such as have been seen in many of the areas of focus identified strategy, risk management, performance, and resources.
These included Additional meetings are called when required and there theprocess of individual Non-Executive Directors iscontact between meetings, where necessary, to accompanying the Chairman and Chief Executive on progress the Groups business.
atleast one of their overseas visits made during the yearwith such visits enabling Non-Executive Directors The Company Secretary toget a more in-depth understanding of the operational All the Directors have access to the advice and services of and strategic challenges faced by the business.
He has responsibility for ensuring importance of effective succession planning and that Board procedures are followed and for advising the identifying talented individuals across the Group who Board, through the Chairman, on governance matters.
have senior management potential has continued to be The Company Secretary provides updates to the Board aparticular area of focus during the year.
The Board has on regulatory and corporate governance issues, new been mindful that several Non-Executive Directors will legislation, and Directors duties and obligations.
The shortly reach nine years service on the Board.
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary isone of the matters reserved for the Board.
In addition, the Chairman has concluded that each Director contributes effectively and demonstrates Board Effectiveness fullcommitment to his her duties.
As a result of the The performance and effectiveness of the Board and evaluation undertaken in 2012, the following emerged itsCommittees is fundamental to the success of the asareas of particular focus: Group and there is a rigorous evaluation each year to t Recognising that over the next three to four years there assess how well the Board, its Committees, the Directors waslikely to be succession of a number of Directors, and the Chairman are performing.
It is the Groups policy theimportance was stressed of having a structured that every three years an external consultant, who has succession plan that delivered the competencies and noconnection with the Company, carries out a formal experience required amongst Directors, in particular review of the Boards performance and such an evaluation where Committee Chairs were involved, and ensured process took place in 2010.
The Board will undergo an thatthese various moves took place in the right order: external review in 2013 as the Group seeks to further t Greater utilisation to be made by the Group of the enhance the effectiveness of the Board.
competencies and experience of Non-Executive Directors in order that they could be available for The evaluation process in 2012 was led by the Chairman informal input into topics, if helpful, for Executive with support from the Company Secretary.
The process Directors and other senior managers between consisted of the completion, by all Directors, of a Boardmeetings: comprehensive questionnaire evaluating the performance t To alter the process of business review so as to review of the Board and its Committees.
The questionnaire each Group business in-depth once a year, combining considered board processes and their effectiveness, an assessment of what had been achieved since last Board composition, Board objectives, Board support, and review against what had been planned: how the content of discussion and focus at Board meetings and prioryears actual and planned performance sit in invited Directors to indicate where specific improvements comparison with those for earlier years: and to agree could be made.
Completion of the questionnaire by each what might be expected to be achieved over the next Director was followed by one-to-one discussions between 12 months, identifying the KPIs against which progress each Director and the Chairman where the Boards role would be measured.
and structure, process, relationships, and any emerging issues were discussed.
In addition to the annual Board Effectiveness Review andin order to provide regular information as to the effective functioning of the Board and its meeting processes, following each Board meeting the Directors provide feedback, via the completion of an online questionnaire, as to the effectiveness of each Board meeting including the efficacy of the presentation of discussion topics and whether time available for the meeting was used effectively.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2012 35 The Chief Executive, to whom they report, appraises The Board currently comprises twelve Directors, the annually the performance of the individual Executive Chairman who was independent on appointment, three Directors.
The Chairman, taking into account the views of Executive Directors, seven independent Non-Executive the other Directors, reviews the performance of the Chief Directors, and one Non-Executive Director, Manfred Executive.
The performance of the Chairman is reviewed Aldag, who is employed by a significant shareholder by the Board led by the Senior Independent Director andis not, therefore, considered independent.
Following the latest review, the SID considered isno requirement that the significant shareholder has and discussed with the Chairman the comments and representation on the Board and, accordingly, Mr. Aldags feedback that had been received from the Directors appointment is subject to the same appointment and aspart of the Chairmans evaluation questionnaire.
removal process as the other Board Directors.
As can Following these discussions with the Chairman, the beseen from the Directors biographies on page 30, SID was able to confirm that the performance of the theDirectors have a broad range of skills and experience Chairman continues to be effective, and that he continues andcan bring independent judgement to bear on issues to demonstrate appropriate commitment to his role.
of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct which are integral tothe success of the Group.
The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The Board has approved a statement that sets out the Although Colin Holmes holds, with Alastair Lyons, a crossclear division of responsibilities between the Chairman directorship in Bovis Homes Group PLC, the Board has and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is primarily determined that Colin Holmes remains independent in responsible for the leadership and workings of the character and judgement and that his holding of a crossBoard, setting its agenda, and monitoring its directorship does not affect his ability to present an effectiveness.
TheChairman is not involved in the dayobjective, rigorous and constructive challenge to the to-day management of the business.
Save for matters assumptions and viewpoints presented by management reserved for decision by the Board, the Chief Executive, and the Board.
with the support of the other Executive Directors, is responsible for proposing the strategy to be adopted by The Board, having given thorough consideration to the the Group: running the business in accordance with the matter, considers seven of the Non-Executive Directors strategy agreed by the Board: and implementing specific tobe independent and is not aware of any relationships Board decisions relating to the operation of the Group.
or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could The statements ofdivision of responsibilities and matters appear to affect, the judgement of any of them.
It is the reserved for decision by the Board are reviewed annually.
view of the Board that the independent Non-Executive Directors are of sufficient calibre and number that their Board Balance and Independence views carrysignificant weight in the Boards decision The Board continues to give careful consideration to its making, and thatthey are free from any relationship structure and balance in the context of the need to refresh orcircumstance that could affect, or appear to affect, Board and committee membership in an orderly manner theirindependent judgement.
soas to maintain the continuity of Board process and thestrength of personal interaction which underlies the Independent Non-Executive Directors are currently effectiveness of the Board as a team.
The Board remains appointed for fixed periods of three years, subject to satisfied that it has the appropriate balance of skills, election by shareholders.
The initial three-year period experience, independence and knowledge of the Group may be extended for two further three-year periods toenable it and its Committees to discharge its duties subject to re-election by shareholders.
Their letters and responsibilities effectively, as required by theCode.
ofappointment may be inspected at the Companys registered office or can be obtained on request from theCompany Secretary.
Admiral Group plc 36 Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance continued Although the Chairman has served in that role since This induction is supplemented by visits to the Groups June2000 the Board remains of the view that he should head office in Cardiff, overseas offices, and meetings continue in office and the Companys leading institutional withmembers of the senior management team and their investors have also confirmed their support for the departments.
Development and training of Directors is Boards express intent.
The Chairman, along with all anongoing process.
Throughout their period in office the theDirectors, seeks election by shareholders annually.
Directors are regularly updated on the Groups business: legal matters concerning their role and duties: the The Chairman performs a number of other non-executive competitive environments in which the Group operates: roles outside the Group and details of these are included and any other significant changes affecting the Group in the Chairmans biography.
The Board continues to be and the industry of which it is a part.
All Board members satisfied that these other commitments are not such as are also encouraged to attend relevant training courses tointerfere with the performance of his duties within atthe Companys expense.
theGroup and will not impact on his ability to allocate sufficient time to discharge effectively his responsibilities The Board receives presentations from senior managers to the Group.
within the Group on a regular basis and Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to make informal visits John Sussens has been appointed as the Senior todifferent parts of the Group to meet with Independent Non-Executive Director.
He is available to localmanagement.
shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive, Relations with Shareholders orGroup Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve The Company attaches considerable importance to orforwhich such contact is inappropriate.
He is also communications with shareholders and engages with responsible forleading the Boards discussion on the them on a variety of issues.
The Investor Relations team Chairmans performance and the appointment of a new has day-to-day primary responsibility for managing Chairman, when appropriate.
communications with institutional shareholders through acombination of briefings to analysts and institutional In accordance with the requirement under the Code shareholders, both at the half-year and full year results.
forannual election of Directors, all directors will be Anumber of analysts and investors visited the Groups submitting themselves for re-election by shareholders Cardiff office during the year to meet with the Executive atthe forthcoming AGM.
The Board is satisfied that all Directors and senior management in order to get a areproperly qualified for their reappointment by virtue betterunderstanding of how the Group operates and oftheir skills and experience and their contribution to how it intends to achieve its strategic and operational theBoard and its Committees.
Senior executives from the Groups overseas businesses also visit the UK in order to present to, and The Directors are given access to independent meet with, analysts and investors.
Site visits and individual professional advice at the Groups expense, should discussions with the Executive Directors are also arranged theydeem it necessary, to carry out their responsibilities.
throughout the year with individual shareholders.
Regular dialogue with shareholders helps to ensure that the Professional Development Companys strategy is understood and that any issues On appointment, Directors take part in a comprehensive areaddressed in a constructive way.
induction programme where they receive financial and operational information about the Group: details concerning their responsibilities and duties: as well as anintroduction to the Groups governance, regulatory and control environment.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2012 37 In addition the Chairman had individual meetings during Board Committees the year with major shareholders, and reported to the The Board has delegated authority to a number of Board on issues raised with him.
permanent Committees to deal with matters in accordance with written terms of reference.
The principal Committees This is supplemented by feedback to the Board on of the Board Audit, Remuneration, Risk and Nomination meetings between management and investors.
External all comply fully with the requirements of the Code.
analysts reports are circulated to all Directors.
In addition, the Investor Relations team produces a quarterly All Committees are chaired by an independent Director, Investor Relations Report that is circulated to the Board.
except the Nomination Committee which is chaired by The Report contains an analysis of share price theChairman of the Board, and comprise a majority of performance: asummary of analyst reports received independent Directors.
Appointments to the Committees during the month and of meetings that have been held are made on the recommendation of the Nomination with investors and analysts: together with details of any Committee and are for a period of up to three years, significant changes to the shareholders register.
which may be extended for two further three year periods, provided the Director remains independent.
The All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys Committees are constituted with written terms of Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Chairmen of the reference that are reviewed annually to ensure that they Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Group Risk remain appropriate and reflect any changes in good Committees attend the AGM along with the other practice and governance.
These terms of reference Directors and are available to answer shareholders are available on request from the Company Secretary questions on the activities of the Committees they and canalso be found on the Companys website: chair.
Shareholders are also invited to ask questions www.
Directors are fully informed during the meeting and have an opportunity to meet of all Committee matters by the Committee Chairmen with Directors after the formal business of the meeting reporting on the proceedings of their Committee at has been concluded.
Details of proxy voting by thesubsequent Board meeting.
Copies of Committee shareholders, including votes withheld, are made minutes are also distributed to the Board.
Committees available on request and are placed on the Companys areauthorised to obtain outside legal or other website following the meeting.
independent professional advice if they consider it necessary.
The Chairman of each Committee attends The Group maintains a corporate website theAnnual General Meeting to respond to any www.
co. uk containing a wide shareholder questions that might be raised on the range of information of interest to institutional Committees activities.
Conflicts of Interest In compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 regarding Directors duties in relation to conflicts of interest, the Groups Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose such limits as it thinks fit.
The Company has put in place procedures to deal with conflicts of interest.
These procedures include each Board member completing, annually, a conflict of interest questionnaire that sets out any situation in which they, or their connected persons have, or could have, a direct orindirect interest that could conflict with the interests ofthe Company.
Any current directorships that they, ortheir connected persons hold, any advisory roles or trusteeships held, together with any companies in which they hold more than 1% of the issued share capital are also disclosed.
These procedures were reviewed by the Board in January 2013 and it was concluded that they hadoperated effectively in 2012.
Admiral Group plc 38 Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance continued The Audit Committee The membership at the end of the year was: Colin The Audit Committees primary responsibilities are: Holmes Chair, Margaret Johnson and Annette Court.
t To monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal announcement relating The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the tothe Groups financial performance, reviewing Committee.
The Committee usually meets four times anysignificant financial reporting judgements peryear and has an agenda linked to events in the whichthey contain: Companys financial calendar.
t To keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls, internal The Board considers that the members of the controland risk management systems: Committee have the appropriate competence t To review the Groups procedures for handling andexperience to carry out their duties and further allegations from whistleblowers and for considers that Colin Holmes Committee Chair, detectingfraud: asaChartered Management Accountant, has the t To monitor and assess the role and effectiveness appropriate recent and relevant financial experience oftheGroups internal audit functions in the context having previously been the UK Finance Director for ofthe Groups overall internal control and risk Tesco plc, and until 2010 a member of its Group management systems: Executive Committee.
t To consider and make recommendations to the Board, to be put to shareholders for their approval at the The Committee is kept up to date with changes to AGM, in relation to the appointment, re-appointment Accounting Standards and relevant developments and removal of the Groups external auditor: infinancial reporting, company law, and the various t To review the external auditors independence and regulatory frameworks through presentations from objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: theGroups external auditors, Deputy Chief Financial and Officer, and Company Secretary.
In addition members t To review the policy on the engagement of the are provided with information on seminars and external auditor to provide non-audit services, conferences provided by external bodies.
The Terms considering the relevant regulatory guidance ofReference of the Audit Committee include all the regarding the provision of non-audit services by matters required under the Code.
Other individuals such as the Chief Financial Officer, Summary of Key Activities During 2012 Chief Operating Officer, Chief Executive, Chairman of During the year the Committee reviewed the following: the Board, the heads of Risk, Compliance, and Internal t The Annual Report and interim results: Auditand representatives of different parts of the t Reports from the internal audit departments within Group may be invited to attend all or part of any theGroup on the effectiveness of the Groups risk meeting as and when appropriate.
The external management and internal control procedures, auditorswere invited to attend all of the Committees detailsof key audit findings, and actions taken by meetings held in 2012, excepting when their own management to manage and reduce the impact of performance was to be reviewed.
therisks identified: t Reports from the external auditors on the principal findings from their review of the Companys systems and controls, and on their key issues and conclusions on the half and full year reporting: t Reports from the Chair of the Group Risk Committee ontheprincipal risks faced by the Group and the workundertaken by the Committee to ensure risk isappropriately managed: t Presentations from independent actuaries to assist theCommittee in concluding on the adequacy of the Colin Holmes Groups reserves: Chairman of the t Reports from the external auditors on their proposed AuditCommittee audit scope, fees, audit, and auditor independence: t Performance and effectiveness of the internal auditdepartment: t All reports from internal audit including management responses to the conclusions set out in the reports: t The effectiveness of the Groups arrangements forhandling allegations from whistleblowers andprocedures for detecting fraud: t The Committee also had presentations and discussions on a range of important issues including the approach to reserving within the Group, a review oflarge claims and a review of the control environment in the Groups Italian business: t Its own terms of reference: and t Its own effectiveness.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2012 39 During the year the Committee reviewed its policy In accordance with agreed parameters, the overseas onnon-audit services that sets out the procedure for operations in Spain and Italy have their own locally based approval, by the Committee, of expenditure with the internal auditors, who report to their respective country Groups auditors of over 30,000, including the process heads.
All reports are evaluated by the Head of Internal where it is necessary for approval of such work to be Audit to ensure the quality and effectiveness of the given outside of the normal Committee meeting reported findings.
In addition, the UK internal audit timetable.
Such circumstances will require the approval department carries out high level governance reviews ofthe Audit Committee Chair who will consider and ofall foreign operations, assessing the internal control approve such fees on behalf of the Committee.
Such frameworks and system of risk management.
approval of fees in excess of 30,000 will then be notified by the Committee Chair to the next Committee meeting The Head of Internal Audit in the UK attends all following approval.
The Groups auditors, KPMG Audit AuditCommittee meetings and provides a range of plc, provide some non-audit services, the majority of presentations and papers to the Committee, through which comprise compliance services related to various which the Committee monitors the effectiveness of the taxation issues within the Group, and which are not Groups internal controls.
Members of the Committee considered by the Committee to compromise their also receive all issued audit reports, enabling them independence as auditors.
The level of non-audit fees tochallenge the reports content and related isreviewed at each Committee meeting and details recommendations.
The overseas internal auditors areincluded in note 6 to the financial statements.
The Committee approves the internal audit programmes at the start of The Committee undertakes an annual review to assess each calendar year whilst the effectiveness and workload the independence and objectivity of the external auditors of the internal audit functions, and the adequacy of and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into available resources are monitored throughout the year.
consideration relevant professional and regulatory requirements, the progress achieved against the agreed The Audit Committee has unrestricted access to the audit plan, and the competence with which the auditors Groups documents and information, as well as to its handled the key accounting and audit judgements.
employees and external professional advisers.
Following this review the Committee concluded that the auditor, KPMG, remained independent and provided a As part of the Committees detailed annual review service that was robust and fit for purpose.
There are no ofitsperformance and processes, each Committee contractual obligations that restrict the Groups choice of member completed a comprehensive online external auditor.
It was agreed that a decision on whether questionnaire designed to provide objective to re-tender the external audit should be made at least assessmentof the Committees performance, every five years.
The last such tender was carried out in includingits effectiveness in monitoring internal 2006.
In view of the high quality of service received by andexternal audit.
The Committee discussed the theGroup: the fresh perspective provided by the recent resultsof the review and it was concluded that the rotation of the audit engagement partner in 2011: and Committee and the audit process were effective and thecontinued competitiveness of their audit fee, the thatthe Committee had full access to all the information Committee recommended that a re-tender process itrequired: that the Committee had appropriate terms should not be undertaken in 2012 but that the relationship ofreference: and that it had achieved its remit.
with and effectiveness of KPMG should be kept under review.
A resolution for the reappointment of KPMG as auditors will, therefore, be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The Company is mindful of the September 2012 Corporate Governance Code, which applies to its next reporting period and includes a provision to put the external audit out to tender at least every ten years.
Admiral Group plc 40 Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance continued The Group Risk Committee Membership at the end of the year was: Martin Jackson Summary of Key Activities in 2012 Chair : John Sussens, David Stevens and Annette Court.
During the year the Committee: t Reviewed the Groups risk appetite and profile of The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the material risks: Committee.
The Committee met four times during t Considered the adequacy of risk mitigation measures theyear.
and contingency plans: t Reviewed the Groups risk strategy in the context The duties and responsibilities of the Committee are ofthe Groups agreed strategic objectives: setout in Terms of Reference that were approved by t Monitored the Groups progress towards theBoard in January 2013.
The responsibilities of the implementation of Solvency II: Committee can be summarised as: t Approved the design and reviewed the results of t Agreeing the Groups risk management framework, thestress and scenario testing programme: including the Risk Management Committees that t Received an external presentation on Enterprise-wide areestablished within each of the Groups Risk Management benchmarking: operational entities: t Reviewed in-depth analysis of a number of the Groups t Monitoring the Groups prudential risk exposure, most significant risk areas, including insurance risk in which includes ensuring that the Groups capital the UK car insurance operation: resources and liquidity profile are appropriate to t Reviewed management information on conduct itsneeds whilst meeting minimum regulatory riskwithin the Group: requirements: t Reviewed its own terms of reference: t Ensuring the adequacy and effectiveness of the t Reviewed its own effectiveness and sought to Groups systems and controls for the prevention identifypotential improvements that could be made offinancial crime including prevention of bribery tothe Committees oversight of risk management in andadequacy of anti-money laundering systems the Group.
andcontrols: t Monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness The work of the Committee is supported by more oftheGroups Compliance functions: detailed work undertaken by Risk Management t Reviewing the Groups progress towards achieving Committees in each of the Groups operational entities.
Solvency II compliance: Membership of each of these Committees includes t Considering and recommending to the Board theManaging Director of the operation.
In the UK, forapproval the Groups risk appetite, including membership of the Risk Management Committee anychanges to the appetite for each material type includes the Group Chief Executive and the Chief ofrisk faced by the Group: and Operating Officer.
At each meeting, the Risk t Overseeing and challenging the design and Management Committees consider significant execution of the Groups stress and scenario testing.
movements in the operations risk profile, any risks that have arisen and any emerging risks.
Risk Management Committees also assess and monitor any regulatory issues, ensuring that their resolution and the action takenare appropriately recorded.
In the UK, the Risk Management Committee received regular information onConduct Risk, such as complaint handling reports and TCF Treating Customers Fairly management information.
The Committee Chairman reports formally to the Board on its proceedings after each meeting on all matters within its duties and responsibilities, as set out in previously circulated minutes to the Board.
The Committee Chairman also reports on the activities Martin Jackson oftheCommittee in a formal written report that is Chairman of the Group submitted to and discussed by the Board every Risk Committee sixmonths.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2012 41 The Nomination Committee The membership at the year-end was Alastair Lyons The Board, at their meeting in December 2012, Chairman, Colin Holmes and Lucy Kellaway.
The considered the Groups current Succession Plan Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
whichconsidered the senior roles within the Group The Committee invites the Chief Executive to attend andidentified whether there was emergency shortmeetings when it deems appropriate.
The Committee termcover in place in the event that the individual left met on one occasion during 2012. theorganisation, and whether there was a permanent replacement available within the organisation, or whether The Committee leads the process for making the position would need to be filled externally.
It also appointments to the Board or where the appointee identified where there were individuals who, with further islikely to become a Board member.
The Committee experience and guidance, would be capable of moving ensures there is a formal, rigorous and transparent into particular senior management roles.
procedure for the appointment of new Directors to theBoard through a full evaluation of the skills, At this meeting the emerging talent across the Group knowledge and experience required of Directors.
wasdiscussed in detail with the Executive team TheCommittee also ensures plans are in place for identifying key individuals within the organisation who orderly succession forappointments to the Board, had impressed in their current roles and who had the andreviews the succession plans for other senior potential to contribute to the business by working on management positions.
Responsibility for making projects in other areas of the Group.
Such exposure seniormanagement appointments rests with the would also assist with their development in order that, ChiefExecutive.
atthe appropriate time, they might be in a position to succeed to senior management positions.
Non-Executive Directors Roger Abravanel and Annette Court joined the Board in March 2012, following a The Committee remains satisfied that succession plans formal, rigorous and transparent recruitment process led for Directors and senior management are in place to by external consultants, instructed by the Committee, ensure the continued ability of the Group to implement who identified and shortlisted potential candidates.
strategy and compete effectively in the markets in which Following this process, and separate interviews with it operates.
Committee andBoard members, the Committee unanimously recommended to the Board that Roger The Group remains strongly supportive of the principle andAnnette should be appointed to the Board.
ofboardroom diversity, of which gender is an important, but not the only aspect.
What is important is diversity During the year, the Committee kept under review the ofthought, experience, and approach and each new size of the Board and the balance of its composition appointment must complement what already exists at particularly in the context of the continuing need to theBoard table.
Accordingly, appointments will always assess the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, bemade on merit against objective criteria, including diversity and experience on the Board and the diversity, and not just to achieve an externally impending retirement, over the next five years, of a prescribednumber.
number of currentNon-Executive Directors who are approaching nineyears service.
The Group already has strong female representation in both management and at Board level.
On our Executive Committees women comprise 33% of that for the UK and41% for our International operations.
In addition, ofthe total employees across the Group in the UK, 49% are women.
Given women already constitute 25% of ourplc Board the Group has already met the target set for2015 by Lord Davies in his report: Women on Boards.
TheGroup remains committed to providing equal opportunities, eliminating discrimination and Alastair Lyons, CBE encouraging diversity amongst its workforce both Chairman of the intheUK and overseas.
Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Full details of the membership, responsibilities and activities of the Remuneration Committee can be found inthe Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 47 to 56.
Admiral Group plc 42 Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance continued Internal Control and Risk Management The Risk Department defines and prescribes the financial The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups and operational risk assessment processes for the system of internal control and, through the Audit business: maintains the risk registers, undertakes regular Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of these reviews of these risks in conjunction with line management systems.
The systems of internal control over business, and records any actual losses or near misses that occur as operational, financial, and compliance risks are designed a consequence of the realisation of risk.
The Head of the to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Risk Department has responsibility for ensuring that achieve business objectives and can only provide managers are aware of their risk management obligations, reasonable and not absolute assurance against providing them with support and advice, and ensuring materialmisstatement or loss.
that the risk management strategy is properly communicated.
Reports are produced showing the The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process mostsignificant risks identified and the controls in place.
for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups Internal Audit uses the risk registers to plan and inform internal controls: that it has been in place for the year their programme of audits around the most significant ended 31 December 2012: and that, up to the date of risks to the Group to ensure that the prescribed controls approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, it is regularly are in place and are operating effectively.
reviewed by the Board and accords with the internal control guidance for Directors provided in the Code.
The GRC, UK RMC and other UK and overseas committees receive reports setting out key performance A key element of the control system is that the Board and risk indicators and consider possible control issues meets regularly with a formal schedule of matters brought to their attention by early warning mechanisms reserved to it for decision and has put in place an that are embedded within the operational units.
The UK organisational structure with clearly defined lines of RMC, the Groups other UK and overseas committees responsibility.
As described above, in order to ensure andthe Audit Committee also receive regular reports these responsibilities are properly discharged, the from the relevant Internal Audit functions, which include Board has delegated the task of supervision of risk recommendations for improvement of the control and management and internal control to the Group Risk operational environment.
Twice a year the Chairman of Committee GRC.
the Group Risk Committee provides a comprehensive report to the Board on the Groups risk appetite, risk There are several key elements to the risk management strategy and risk management policy with focus on a environment throughout the Group.
These include the consideration of the principal assessed exposures and setting of risk management strategy, risk appetite and risk the effectiveness of the mitigation strategies adopted.
policy by the GRC: enforcement of that policy by the Chief Inaddition, the Board receives reports from the Chairman Executive: delivery of the policy by the Risk Management of the Audit Committee as to its activities, together with Committee and the Groups other UK and overseas copies of the minutes of the UK RMC and the GRC and entities by the application of the Groups systems of AuditCommittees.
internal control and risk management: and the overall assurance provided by internal audit to the Audit Committee that the systems operate effectively.
The Board recognises that the day-to-day responsibility for implementing these policies must lie with the Senior Management whose operational decisions must take into account risk and how this can be controlled effectively.
The GRC will report on its activities to the Audit Committee in support of the overall assurance providedby the Audit Committee that the Groups risk management and compliance systems operate effectively.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2012 43 The Audit Committees ability to provide the appropriate assurance to the Board depends on the provision ofperiodic and independent confirmation, primarily byInternal Audit, that the controls established by management are operating effectively and where appropriate provides a high-level challenge to the stepsbeing taken by the GRC to implement the risk management strategy.
The Internal Audit functions undertake regular reviews of internal control systems andbusiness processes, identifying control weaknesses and making recommendations to management on improvements where necessary.
In March 2013 the Board carried out the annual review ofthe effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls for the 2012 year, also taking account of events since 31 December 2012, by considering documentation from the Audit Committee including the Internal Audit Annual Report prepared by the Groups Head of InternalAudit.
The Board confirms that there were no significant issues arising during the year under review.
However, the Board continues to review the adequacy of the risk management and control framework.
As the Groups operations grow, the Board looks for opportunities to make improvements and add appropriate resources when necessary.
Going Concern The financial statements have been prepared on a goingconcern basis.
In considering the appropriateness of this assumption, the Board has reviewed the Groups projections for the next twelve months, including cash flow forecasts and regulatory capital surpluses.
As a result of this review the Directors have satisfied themselves that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
