58 Corporate governance Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATEGOVERNANCE CODE The UK Listing Rules stipulate that listed responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief The Chairman also met with the Non-Executive companies must include in their annual report Executive are also available at www.
Directors without the Executive Directors astatement of whether the company has com  being present and individually with each complied with all the relevant provisions Non-Executive Director.
ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code The Chairman, Andrew Gould, is responsible for theGovernance Code.
In September 2012, the the workings and leadership of the Boardand During the year, there were no unresolved Financial Reporting Council FRC published for the balance of its membership including concerns about the running of the Company anew version of the Governance Code the New the Boards Committees.
The Chief Executive, ora proposed action.
The New Code applies to BG Group Sir Frank Chapman until 31 December 2012 from 1 January 2013.
While reporting under the and Chris Finlayson from 1 January 2013, Section B: Effectiveness Governance Code in relation to 2012, BG Group isresponsible for leading and managing the B.
1 The composition of the Board is committed tooperating in accordance with business within the authorities delegated During the year, the Board reviewed the overall the highest standards of corporate governance bytheBoard.
balance of skills, experience, independence and and has already implemented and complied knowledge of Board and Committee members with all the provisions of the New Code.
3 The Chairman and made a number of changes to ensure that The Chairman sets the Boards agenda Committee membership was appropriately The notes below are intended to assist with andensures that there is adequate time for refreshed.
Vivienne Cox joined the Remuneration theevaluation of the Groups compliance thediscussion of all items.
The annual Board and Sustainability Committees and Caio during 2012, although they should be read in Planning Conference is dedicated tothe Koch-Weser joined the Audit Committee.
conjunction with the Corporate governance consideration of strategic issues.
Further detail report as a whole.
ofthe 2012 Board Planning Conference can The Board considers all of its Non-Executive befound on page 49.
Directors to be independent and free of any Section A: Leadership business relationship or other circumstance that A.
1 The role of the Board At the time of his appointment, in May 2012, could compromise the exercise of independent The Board is responsible to BG Groups the Chairman was considered independent by and objective judgement.
TheBoard undertakes shareholders for creating and delivering the Board.
In particular, the Board considered an annual review oftheindependence of its sustainable shareholder value through the that he had been the chief executive officer Non-Executive Directors in accordance with management of the Groups businesses and non-executive chairman of Schlumberger the criteria setout within the Governance Code.
withinthe Governance Framework, details until August 2011 and April 2012 respectively.
There are  Directors ofwhich can be found on page 52.
Having considered the nature and extent and three Executive Directors on the Board.
ofthe relationship between BG Group and The Board oversees the Groups strategy, and Schlumberger, and theabsence of any material By the date of the 2013 AGM, Peter Backhouse will ensures that necessary resources are available, involvement byAndrew Gould in that relationship, have served on the Board for almost 13years.
and that appropriate controls, values and the Board was satisfied that Andrew Gould was In accordance with the Governance Code, standards are in place to deliver it.
As well as independent and thatthesupply of services theBoard has determined that Peter Backhouse oversight responsibility for financial performance, bySchlumberger toBGGroup did not affect his has retained independence of character and internal controls and risk management of independence incarrying out his role asaDirector.
judgement and has not formed associations theGroup, the Board has a formal schedule In accordance with theGovernance Code, with the Company that might compromise ofmatters specifically reserved to it for decision.
theongoing test ofindependence for the hisability to exercise independent judgement, These include: approving material capital Chairman is notappropriate.
notwithstanding his length of service.
Further projects, investments, disposals, litigation details concerning Mr Backhouses continued andarbitration: the Groups funding plan Baroness Hogg, as Senior Independent Director, led appointment are set out in the Nominations andannual capital andrevenue budget: any the selection and appointment process of Andrew Committee report on page 57. interim dividends, and recommending the Gould as the new Chairman.
Further details on finaldividend: and any changes in the capital Andrew Goulds appointment as Chairman are B.
2 Appointments to the Board structure of the Group.
Afull list of the set out in the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts.
Chris Finlayson was appointed as Chief Executive mattersreserved to the Board is published on 1 January 2013.
The succession process and atwww.
4 Non-Executive Directors Chris Finlaysons ultimate appointment was Baroness Hogg is the Senior Independent overseen by the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board has regular scheduled meetings Director.
Her responsibilities include meeting Further details areset out in the Chairmans throughout the year and holds additional major shareholders as an alternative point statement onpage 6. meetings as and when required.
The Board ofcontact to the Chairman, Chief Executive met formally on 10 occasions during 2012. orChief Financial Officer.
The role of the Senior In addition, Vivienne Cox was appointed Directors are expected, wherever possible, to Independent Director is clearly established, asaNon-Executive Director in February 2012 attend all Board meetings, relevant Committee setout in writing and agreed by the Board.
andLim Haw-Kuang was appointed a meetings and the AGM.
Details of attendance Thedescription of the role is available at Non-Executive Director in March 2013.
Further ateach of the Board and principal Committee www.
Baroness Hogg is details on appointments to the Board are set meetings during 2012 are set out on page 51. expected to commit at least three to four days out in the Nominations Committee report per year to the role, and significantly more in onpage 57, with the Boards policy on diversity All Directors are covered by the Groups exceptional circumstances.
This is in addition provided on pages 48 and 49.
Directors and Officers Insurance policy.
to the expected time commitment in her capacity as a Non-Executive Director.
Den Jones was appointed as Interim Chief Financial A.
2 Division of responsibilities Officer and Executive Director on 15 February 2013 The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Baroness Hogg and the Non-Executive following a period as Alternate Director to Fabio areseparate, with responsibilities clearly Directors considered, without the Chairman Barbosa.
His appointment was overseen by the delineated, set out in writing and agreed present, the Chairmans performance as part Board.
Further details are set out on page 48. bythe Board.
Descriptions of the roles and ofthe externally facilitated Board evaluation.
Corporate governance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code continued 59 B.
3 Commitment with the exception of Sir Robert Wilson, Sir Frank performance of the Group and the interests The Board has taken into consideration the Chapman, Philippe Varin and Fabio Barbosa, who ofshareholders.
For further information, see external commitments of its Chairman and stood down from the Board on 16 May 2012, the Remuneration report onpages 60 to 75 Non-Executive Directors and is satisfied that 31December 2012, 11February 2013 and 15 February which details how remuneration is clearly these do not conflict with their duties and time 2013 respectively remain subject to annual structured to align with corporate and commitments as Directors of theCompany.
re-election and theBoard unanimously individual performance over thelong term.
4 Development details for all Directors can be found on pages D. 2 Procedure All Directors appointed to the Board receive 44to 45 andin the full Notice of AGM.
The principal responsibilities of the Remuneration afull induction programme, taking into Committee are setting, reviewing and account their qualifications and experience.
Section C: Accountability recommending to the Board forapproval Details of the induction programme received C. 1 Financial and business reporting BGGroups overall remuneration policy and by Vivienne Cox can be found on page 50.
In accordance with the 2010 Governance Code, strategy, and setting the remuneration Atailored induction programme for Lim Hawa statement of the Directors responsibilities arrangements for Executive Directors and Kuang will be agreed with the Company Secretary.
regarding the Financial statements, including members of the GEC.
Further details are available the status of the Company as a going concern, in theterms of reference for the Committee The Directors receive a number of teach-ins is set out on pages 78 to 79.
To support a balanced which are available at www.
Details of teach-ins during 2012 and understandable assessment of the Group, .
Full details of the areset out on page 50. anexplanation of the Groups strategy and Committees activities during the year are setout business model, together with relevant risks in the Remuneration report on pages 60 to 75.
5 Information and support and performance metrics, is set out on pages During 2012, no individual was present when The Directors have full access to the advice 10 to 11. their own remuneration wasbeing discussed.
and services of the Company Secretary, who isalso responsible to the Board for ensuring that In line with the revised Governance Code issued in Section E: Relations withshareholders correct Board procedures are followed: advising September 2012, a further statement is provided E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders on allgovernance matters: ensuring effective on page 79 confirming that the Board considers Effective communication and engagement communication flows within the Board and its that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken with investors is of paramount importance Committees, and between senior management asa whole, is fair, balanced and understandable tothe continued success of the Company.
and Non-Executive Directors: and facilitating andprovides the information necessary for TheChief Executive and Chief Financial Officer induction and assisting with the ongoing shareholders to assess the Companys give presentations on the quarterly results professional development of Directors.
Further performance, business model and strategy.
inmeetings with institutional investors, details on the Company Secretarys responsibilities analysts and the media, which are also are available on the governance section of C. 2 Risk management and internal control accessible by webcast and teleconference.
The Board has established processes designed These presentations are available at Theappointment or removal of the Company to allow it to assess the effectiveness of the www.
com investorrelations Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
internal control environment within the Group.
Further details can be found on pages 52 and 79.
Throughout the year, there is regular dialogue Guidelines are in place concerning the content, with shareholders through meetings, presentations timeliness and presentation of Board and BG Groups internal controls provide and roadshows.
Throughout 2012, Executive Committee papers from management reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance Directors and members of the GEC met with toensure that the Board is properly briefed.
against material loss or misstatement and are shareholders in the UK, USA, France, Australia designed to manage, rather than eliminate, and Brazil.
This included more than 30 roadshows, Directors may obtain independent professional therisk of failure to achieve business objectives.
100 meetings and attendance at 11 conferences.
advice at the Companys expense if they believe it may be required in furtherance oftheir duties.
C. 3 Audit Committee and auditors The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors, Details of the composition of the Audit including the Senior Independent Director, B.
6 Evaluation Committee, including the background of areavailable to meet with institutional In 2012, performance evaluations of the Board, members, are set out on pages 54 to 55. shareholders to discuss any matters relating its Committee and individual Directors were toBG Groups governance and strategy.
externally facilitated by Dr Tracy Long, who hadno The Audit Committee assists the Board infulfilling other connection with the Group.
The evaluation its responsibilities in respect of: overseeing BG Groups website contains information considered the balance ofskills on the Board, BGGroups financial reporting processes: the way ofinterest to both institutional and private independence, knowledge ofthe Company, and in which management ensures and monitors the shareholders, including specific information diversity including gender.
Further details of the adequacy of financial, operational and compliance forprivate shareholders relating to the evaluation can be found on page 50. controls and business risk management processes: management of their shareholdings.
the appointment, remuneration, independence The Non-Executive Directors, led by Baroness and performance of the Groups external auditors: Further details about engagement with Hogg, the Senior Independent Director, were and the independence and performance of Group shareholders can be found in the Chairmans responsible for the performance evaluation Audit.
Further details areprovided in the terms statement on page 49. ofthe Chairman, which included the external of reference fortheCommittee which are available Board evaluation.
com auditcommittee E. 2 Constructive use of the AGM The AGM will be held on 23 May 2013 and is The Directors concluded that, following the Details of how the Committee has discharged its anopportunity for shareholders to vote on evaluation, the Board and its Committees operate responsibilities during the year areprovided in the certain aspects of BG Group business.
It is also effectively and that each Director contributes Audit Committee report on pages 54 to 55. anopportunity for those shareholders who are effectively and demonstrates commitment able to attend to ask questions of the Board of tothe role.
Section D: Remuneration Directors, including the Chairmen of the Audit, D. 1 The level and components of remuneration Remuneration, Sustainability and Nominations B.
7 Election re-election The Board believes that the Groups remuneration Committees, and the Company Secretary.
All Directors are subject to election at the first policy continues to enable theGroup to attract, TheNotice of AGM is sent to all shareholders AGM following their appointment.
Accordingly, retain and motivate theexecutive talent who have requested to receive hard copy Den Jones and Lim Haw-Kuang will stand for required for the delivery of its business documentation from the Company.
The Notice election at the 2013 AGM.
All other Directors strategy, while linking closely tothe long-term isalso available at www.
