48 Corporate governance Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AN EFFECTIVE BOARD IS CREATED BY BRINGING TOGETHER THE RIGHT COMBINATION OFINDIVIDUALS AND BY PROMOTING THE RIGHT DYNAMIC AMONG THOSEINDIVIDUALS.
IT IS THEN A QUESTION OF ENSURING DELIVERY OF THE RIGHT INFORMATION, AT THE RIGHT TIME, SUCH THAT THERIGHT DEGREE OF CONSTRUCTIVE CHALLENGE CAN TAKE PLACE.
THESE ARE, IBELIEVE, THE CRITICAL INGREDIENTS FOR GOOD DECISION MAKING.
ANDREW GOULD STRUCTURE OF THE REPORT CHAIRMAN This report on corporate governance is The Board of Directors remains fully intended to give shareholders a clear and committedtothe principles of best practice comprehensive picture of the Groups incorporate governance and we comply fully governance arrangements and how they with the UKCorporate Governance Code.
Pages 49 to 50 set out details of the areas of BG Groups focus during theyear, while descriptions of how the Group complied with each Principle and Provision ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code are set out on pages 58 to 59.
This year has been marked for the Board The Board of Directors remains fully ofChief Financial Officer which will comprise bythe orderly succession planning processes committedto the principles of best practice both an examination of internal candidates thatwere put in place for both the Chairman incorporate governance and we comply fully andan external search.
I succeeded with theUKCorporate Governance Code SirRobert Wilson as Chairman in May 2012 and theGovernance Code.
In terms of wider succession planning, our Chris Finlayson succeeded Sir Frank Chapman Nominations Committee will, in the coming as Chief Executive on 1 January 2013.
Chief Executives succession year, review with management the talent In December, we announced that Chris Finlayson pipeline for senior management roles as a During my first months as Chairman, I have had been appointed as Chief Executive, to means of assessing the quality of BG Groups greatly enjoyed my full and direct engagement succeed Sir Frank Chapman, with effect from future leadership potential.
with all parts of the organisation, from 1January 2013.
Further details on the appointment seniormanagement to technical and can be found in the Chairmans statement on Board diversity functional experts.
The Board other than the Executive The Board believes that diversity is the essential Directors was actively engaged ina rigorous foundation for introducing different perspectives The Boards focus, as we move forward under and comprehensive process to appoint Sir Franks into Board debate and for better anticipating the new leadership, is to build on BG Groups successor.
The Non-Executive Directors identified risks and opportunities in building a long-term, reputation as a leading and commercially agile andassessed three internal candidates, and a sustainable business, and this philosophy forms gas andoil business, with competitive strengths number of external candidates.
At the conclusion the Boards policy on diversity.
inexploration and LNG, and an impressive of this process, theBoard was unanimous that reserves and resource position.
The critical Chris has theright skills for this critical phase of The Board recognises that gender is an important success factor for the Group in the short to delivery forBG Group and for the next stage of aspect of the overall diversity to which chairmen medium term will be the deliveryof our major theGroups evolution.
should have regard in establishing the optimal growth projects in Australia and Brazil safely, balance and composition of the Board.
ontime and on budget, while optimising Sir Frank stepped down from the Board at operational performance andoutput from theend of 2012 but will, as planned, continue Further details on the Boards approach to theGroups existing producing base assets.
to work as an adviser in support of the Chief gender diversity at a senior management Atthe same time, theBoard has already begun Executive transition until his retirement in level within the business are provided in the toconsider thenext generation of projects that June 2013.
I look forward to building a strong Nominations Committee report on page 57. will helptosecure BG Groups future growth.
relationship with Chris as the Group sets its new strategic objectives which we look forward A well-managed and progressive process of In light of the continued global economic, to sharing with shareholders on 14 May 2013. non-executive succession at BG Group means financial and political uncertainty in 2012, that we have in recent years refreshed the Board theBoard has continued to conduct regular In February 2013, we announced that Fabio with appointments that have secured deeper and systematic assessments of the evolving Barbosa had stepped down as Chief Financial sector experience and wider geographic risks facing the business indelivering its Officer and as an Executive Director.
These are both key elements of an strategic objectives.
BG Group Financial Controller, has been effective Board at BGGroup, given the technical appointed as an Executive Director and as complexity and international reach of our global Interim Chief Financial Officer, pending the operations today.
In our longer-serving Nonconclusion of a succession process for the role Executive Directors, we also have accumulated Company knowledge and understanding.
Corporate governance Corporate governance continued 49 During the year, the Board through the REPORT andLNG marketing strategies.
The Board Nominations Committee identified that the alsodiscussed the Groups evolving Enterprise future addition of a Non-Executive Director with Board focus RiskManagement Framework seepage 52, experience of operating in Asia would be beneficial, During 2012, the Board met on 10 occasions.
itsLicence to Operate strategy and the skills and the appointment of Lim Haw-Kuang in Among other matters, the Board focused on: andorganisational capabilities, including the March 2013 adds both sector and geographic International Graduate Development Programme, experience to the Board in this regard.
the safety of employees and contractors across to support the Groups growthplans.
the Groups businesses, as well as monitoring The current composition of the Board continues to process safety and asset integrity issues affecting Board visit to Egypt provide, in my view, an appropriate balance of skills, the Groups assets.
This included regular updates In September 2012, the Board of Directors visited experience and knowledge of BG Groups business.
on the Elgin Franklin well control incident: BG Egypt.
The visit provided an opportunity forthe Board to meet the local management succession planning for the Chief Executive: External Board evaluation team in both formal and informal settings In 2012, the effectiveness of the Board and project performance in Australia and Brazil andto gain greater insight into BG Groups itsCommittees was externally facilitated by andassociated capital expenditure: operations and plans in Egypt.
Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review.
Dr Long BG Groups funding plan and capital structure, facilitated the previous external evaluation The Directors received presentations from including regular updates on the portfolio three years agoand also assisted the Senior local management, who provided an update rationalisation plan, in particular the proposed Independent Director in the internal evaluation ontheevolving political, economic and market saleof interests in the Queensland Curtis last year.
This degree of continuity, combined situation in Egypt, the West Delta Deep LNG QCLNG project in Australia: with DrLongs continued independence and Marine WDDM development, non-WDDM objectivity, meant that the evaluation was the 2013 Budget including reserves and exploration activities, the overall future strategy both insightful and able to offer perspective resources and production volumes : for the asset and on the receivables position.
on what has changed within the Board over The four-day visit alsoallowed the Board other strategic items, such as exploration time.
Details of the performance evaluation toassess first hand therisksrelating to the initiatives, LNG shipping and development process, together with some of the most execution of BG Groups current activities and options for the Groups interests in the significant recommendations, and the Boards itsfuture strategy.
Members of the Board also Karachaganak field in Kazakhstan: process forreviewing progress against these travelled to the onshore gas processing plant at recommendations, are set out on page 50. the medical condition of Sir Frank Chapman, Idku and toured the site with senior management.
the former Chief Executive: and Shareholder engagement While in Egypt, meetings of the Board, Audit the tender process for external audit services.
The Board values open, constructive and Committee and Sustainability Committee were purposeful dialogue with shareholders, held, with all Directors who travelled to Egypt Board Planning Conference particularly in relation to strategy, remuneration being present.
The meeting agendas principally In June 2012, BG Group held a two-day Board and governance.
In support of the aims of the comprised items relating specifically to Egypt, Planning Conference to discuss the Groups UK Stewardship Code, I engaged with institutional and all Committees focused on the impact growth plans and a number of strategic issues.
investors inrelation to the proposed plans on BGGroup of the change in the political and Senior members of management presented forthe succession of the Chief Executive and economic landscape following the presidential tothe Conference on risks and opportunities Ihad afull programme of investor meetings elections.
The Chairman and other senior Board relevant to the development and delivery inaddition to those typically offered by the members met with the new Egyptian President ofthe Groups strategy.
executive management team following the and Prime Minister and meetings were also revised 2012 and 2013 production volume guidance held with several other ministers, including The Board considered the global economic and provided in BG Groups third quarter 2012 results.
energy market outlook, industry and competitor trends, the growth opportunities and challenges Over 100 meetings were held with shareholders In 2013, given the importance of Australia in BG Groups strategic business plan including by senior management during the year and, tothe Groups future growth plans, the Board exploration and other business development toreflect our strong retail shareholder base, intends to visit QGC to assess progress with initiatives, future portfolio composition members of the management team and the the Groups QCLNG project in Queensland.
andrationalisation, and the Groups gas, oil Company Secretary also met with members ofthe UK Shareholders Association.
The quality ofengagement with shareholders on SETTING BG GROUPS PRIORITIES corporate governance matters continues to vary greatly and Iwouldencourage investors to raise What the Board has achieved in 2012 Board priorities for 2013 matters inatimely and constructive way inthespirit ofthe UK Stewardship Code.
Smooth transition to Andrew Gould as Chairman.
The successful transition of Chris Finlayson inhisfirstyear asthenew Chief Executive.
Chris Finlayson appointed as Chief Executive The Board regularly monitors the views of witheffect from 1 January 2013.
Appointment and successful integration shareholders and considers reports from investor ofChiefFinancial Officer.
Greater balance sheet flexibility supporting the relations advisers concerning institutional Groups major capital expenditure programme.
A review of the Groups longer-term strategy.
Continued pursuit of a successful divestment Support for the continued delivery of BG Groups strategy and consolidation of core business areas.
growth projects in Australia and Brazil.
In conclusion, I believe strongly that effective corporate governance is central toBGGroups An enhanced strategic planning process with an Continued focus on developing an integrated improved understanding of the Groups strategic dialogueon risk at Board level.
ability to operate successfully inthe global risks through the establishment of the Enterprise business environment and helps to underpin Continue to drive for improvements in safety Risk Management Framework and a Risk the sustainable success of the Group over andasset integrity performance.
Management Committee at Group Executive level.
Non-Executive Director succession planning, Greater visibility of the external landscape including for the role ofSenior Independent globaleconomic and energy market outlook.
Increased sectoral experience and gender diversity Chairman Further interaction with, and feedback on the Board.
50 Corporate governance Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Corporate governance continued CORPORATE GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2011 internal Board evaluation in practice 2012 Board evaluation process 2013 a series of actions for the Board The 2011 Board evaluation process was In 2012, the evaluation of the effectiveness toconsider to enhance its effectiveness.
facilitated by the Senior Independent Director oftheBoard and its Committees was Thoseactions were agreed at that meeting and Committee Chairmen with support from facilitated externally by Dr Tracy Long and will form part of the agenda ofthe Board Dr Tracy Long at Boardroom Review and ofBoardroom Review.
Certain ofthese wasreported on in the 2011 Annual Report.
matters are set out in thetable below.
Dr Longs only connection with BGGroup A number of matters raised during this isherwork with the Board on performance evaluation exercise formed part of the evaluation and she is considered independent RECOMMENDATIONS FOR 2013 Boardagenda in 2012.
These included: with no actual or perceived conflict of interest.
The evaluation comprised in-depth interviews Outcomes of the strategic and risk discussions action items from the Board Planning with Directors and the Company Secretary, atthe Board Planning Conference to be included Conference being used to support the attendance at a Board meeting and review within each Board pack for ease of reference.
development of forward agendas for ofBoard and Committee papers.
Greater visibility and analysis of the theBoard and its Committees: competitivelandscape.
The review covered three key aspects of senior executives and subject matter experts Boardeffectiveness in detail: the work of the Tailored induction and development regularly attending meetings of the Board Board, Board culture and dynamics, and the programmes for individual Directors.
and its Committees and the Chairman and Boards use of time, which were determined Non-Executive Directors meeting regularly Teach-ins on crisis management preparedness bythe Chairman and Dr Long to be of most outside of the schedule of formal meetings tobe included on the forward agenda.
importance and value to the Board.
with senior management and relevant Resourcing plans to be included as a more technical and functional experts: The results of the evaluation were discussed regular component of papers recommending investment propositions.
Board and Committee agendas being set bythe Board as a whole and by the relevant with additional allocated time for external Committees.
The evaluation concluded that BG Groups organisational structure and presenters.
For example, an independent theBoard operates effectively as a unit and corporate culture to form part of the wider writer and consultant on international that the diverse composition of the Board, and review of the longer-term strategy to be affairsattended part of the Board Planning thoughtful succession planning, had engendered formulated by the Chief Executive.
Conference, and a key contractor attended apositive Board culture characterised by mutual the Sustainability Committee to discuss trust and respect.
The dynamic was recognised project and safety performance atthe as collegiate, with an even and engaged A review of the progress made against Groups QCLNG project: and contribution from all members.
Thestrength theseobjectives has been added to the ofthe Audit and Sustainability Committees 2013forward agenda.
the Chairman reporting regularly to the Board was acknowledged and there was good use on the outcome of investor meetings during ofthe Boards time, with effective calendar The Board has concluded that a tender 2012, which focused on Chief Executive and agenda planning and good quality processshould be carried out for the next succession, and remuneration and operational information tabled for review.
external Board evaluation in two years time.
In addition, the monthly business andfinancial review distributed A number of recommendations were raised tothe Boardincluded an enhanced section inthe evaluation and, following consultation on investor relations and feedback.
with the Chairman and the Chief Executive, the Company Secretary presented in February Development formal training and development programme VIVIENNE COX will be introduced for each Non-Executive NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Induction programmes for Director during 2013 and the Chairman and new Non-Executive Directors Company Secretary will meet regularly with Its great to come back to the oil and gas An induction programme was undertaken eachNon-Executive Director to support their industry.
I have had the chance to visit in2012 for Vivienne Cox, who joined the Board individual requirements.
As noted above, these BGGroups operations in Egypt at a time of inFebruary.
The programme included specific programmes will focus not only on the external change in the country, and I was impressed in-depth detail on the Groups sustainability environment but also provide Directors with bythe commercial and technical competence agenda: a visit to the LNG trading business in sufficient access to BG Groups operations and of the team on the ground.
Visiting the gas Houston: detailed information about BGGroups people, to allow them to develop the necessary and LNG trading businesses in Houston and structure, activities and operations: and knowledge of BG Groups business such that the the UKalso confirmed in my mind that the meetings with senior executives and effectiveness of contributions made at Board Group deserves its reputation for worldkeyadvisers.
and Committee meetings is maximised.
TheGroups objective for safer and safer Prior to Ms Coxs appointment to the Teach-in programme operations was reinforced by my visit Remuneration Committee, she met with the As part of the ongoing development of Directors, totheSpadeadam facility the sight and Executive Vice President, Human Resources.
a formal teach-in programme was undertaken sound ofa controlled explosion will stay This meeting covered a broad range of during the year to ensure the Board remained withme forever!
remuneration issues, but centred on the upto date with key business developments.
Groups remuneration policy, performanceTopics considered during the year included based incentives and pension arrangements.
field development planning, armed security onGroup-owned LNG vessels and changes In response to feedback received as a part inthe corporate governance landscape.
ofthe 2012 Board evaluation process, a Corporate governance Corporate governance continued 51 BOARD AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE STRUCTURE BG GROUP PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS SUSTAINABILITY AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS CHAIRMANS FINANCE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE RESERVES GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE RISK EXPLORATION INVESTMENT SPEAK UP & FRAUD COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT & APPRAISAL COMMITTEE INVESTIGATIONS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Board Committee Executive Committee BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE IN 2012 Board Audit Sustainability Nominations Chairmans Finance Remuneration a Andrew Gould 10 10 2 2 6 6 3 3 3 4 1 1 4 4 b Sir Robert Wilson 4 4 2 2 3 3 2 3 1 1 2 2 Chris Finlayson 10 10 Sir Frank Chapman 10 10 6 6 7 7 2 2 c Fabio Barbosa 6 10 5 7 2 2 d Den Jones 3 3 2 2 Martin Houston 10 10 6 6 Peter Backhouse 10 10 6 6 e Vivienne Cox 9 9 5 5 2 2 f Baroness Hogg 9 10 8 8 5 6 1 1 Dr John Hood 10 10 8 8 6 6 6 6 4 4 g Caio Koch-Weser 10 10 7 7 6 6 h Sir David Manning 9 10 5 6 6 6 i Mark Seligman 9 10 8 8 1 1 Patrick Thomas 10 10 8 8 4 4 j Philippe Varin 6 10 5 8 2 4 a Andrew Gould stepped down as a member of the Audit Committee on 16 May 2012 on his appointment as Chairman of the Board.
When Andrew Gould became Chairman of the Board, he replaced Sir Robert Wilson as Chairman of the Chairmans, Finance and Nominations Committees.
Andrew Gould was unable to attend the Chairmans Committee meeting on 31 October 2012 because he was travelling on BG Group business to Beijing to meet with representatives of the China National Offshore Oil Corporation CNOOC.
The Chairmans Committee was chaired by Baroness Hogg, Senior Independent Director, as his delegate.
b Sir Robert Wilson retired from the Board on 16 May 2012. c Fabio Barbosa was granted leave of absence on 9 September 2012 in order to undergo medical treatment in Brazil for a diagnosed condition.
Den Jones, theGroup Financial Controller, assumed all responsibilities of the Chief Financial Officer excluding the chairmanship of the Investment Committee following his appointment by Fabio Barbosa as his Alternate Director on 9 September 2012.
Fabio Barbosa provided Den Jones with counsel and support throughout his leave of absence.
On 15 February 2013, it was announced that Fabio Barbosa would be appointed asChairman, BG South America and would step down as Chief Financial Officer and from the Board with immediate effect.
d Den Jones was appointed as Alternate Director to Fabio Barbosa on 9 September 2012 and then was appointed as Interim Chief Financial Officer andExecutive Director on 15 February 2013. e Vivienne Cox joined the Board on 8 February 2012 and joined the Remuneration and Sustainability Committees on 10 April 2012. f Baroness Hogg was unable to attend the Board meeting held in February 2012 due to prior commitments as chairman of the Financial Reporting Council.
Baroness Hogg was unable to attend the Nominations Committee meeting in March because of a prior commitment at the House of Lords.
g Caio Koch-Weser joined the Audit Committee on 10 April 2012. h Sir David Manning has chaired the Sustainability Committee since 5 September 2011.
Sir David missed the September Board meeting and Sustainability Committee meeting due to a prior commitment.
The Sustainability Committee was chaired by Dr John Hood in his absence.
i While able to chair the Audit Committee meeting in December, Mark Seligman was unable to attend the Board meeting in December due to coincidingboard and audit committee meetings at G4S plc where he is the non-executive deputy chairman.
Baroness Hogg reported tothe Board onthe outcomes of the December Audit Committee meeting with Mark Seligmans prior approval.
j Philippe Varin was unable to attend four Board meetings, three Audit Committee meetings and two Remuneration Committee meetings dueto coinciding commitments at PSA Peugeot Citron where he is chairman of the managing board.
Philippe Varin stepped down from theBoard on 11 February 2013.
52 Corporate governance Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Corporate governance continued INTERNAL CONTROL BG Group has a well-established Governance Governance ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts Framework which comprises three elements: Maintaining the integrity of Policies and have been subject to adequate verification and organisation and structure: internalcontrol, Standards is part of an established review comply with applicable legal and technical including risk management: andindependent andapproval process and the Governance requirements.
The Board reviews and approves assurance.
Committee has accountability for the the Annual Report and Accounts for oversight of that process.
The Governance publication and ensures that appropriate Organisation and structure Committee maintains executive oversight of disclosures have been made.
This governance BG Groups organisation and structure are the ICF, including its structure and operation, process is in place to ensure both management established and overseen by the Board and are and ensures that there is a robust process for and the Board are given sufficient opportunity designed to allow for effective and efficient evaluating the effectiveness of the Groups toreview and challenge the Groups Annual decision making and to meet corporate internal controls.
The Governance Committee Report and Accounts before it is made governance good practice.
A diagram also effected changes to its own composition publiclyavailable.
illustrating the BG Group Board Committee during the year to facilitate more insightful structure and Group Executive sub-committee analysis andinformation flow from the Managements report on internal structure is set out on page 51.
The Board has Regional Governance Committees and greater controloverfinancial reporting delegated authority to its Committees on traction within assets and regions of issues Management is responsible for establishing specific matters which are set out in written andactionsarising.
and maintaining adequate internal control terms of reference for each.
These terms of over financial reporting.
Internal control reference were refreshed in 2012 in line with In 2012, the Governance Committee sponsored overfinancial reporting is a process designed evolving best practice and high standards aproject to improve the integration of bytheGroup Finance function to provide ofcorporate governance, and will now be thevarious forms of assurance provided at reasonable assurance regarding the reliability reviewed annually.
The membership of each theGroup level with the principal risks that of financial reporting and the preparation of ofthe BoardCommittees is detailed on pages 44 thebusiness faces.
The Integrated Assurance the Financialstatements in accordance with to 47.
The terms of reference of the Board Framework is a more holistic approach to International Financial Reporting Standards Committees are published on BG Groups theoversight of risk, mitigating controls and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
website and are also available from the combined assurance activities.
It is expected Internal control over financial reporting Company Secretary upon request.
that the Integrated Assurance Framework includes policies and procedures that pertain to project will continue in 2013 and should the maintenance of records that, in reasonable The Board is ultimately responsible for resultin the refinement of BG Groups ability detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions BGGroups risk management and internal toalignaudits and assurance activities to and dispositions of assets: provide reasonable control systems and oversees the review, principal risksand corecontrols.
For more assurances that transactions are recorded as compliance and assurance processes that have information about the proposed Integrated necessary to permit preparation of Financial been designed to ensure there is an effective Assurance Framework, please seetheinset statements in accordance with IFRS and that internal control environment.
The Boards diagram on page 53. receipts and expenditures are being made only monitoring role is undertaken in accordance in accordance with authorisations ofmanagement with the guidance set out in the Governance Risk management and the respective Directors: and provide Code, the Internal Control: Guidance to Following the appointment of a Chief Risk reasonable assurance regarding prevention or Directors formerly the Turnbull Guidance, Officer in late 2011, the Risk Management timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, andthe Committee of Sponsoring Organizations Committee RMC was established as a use or disposition of assets that could have of the Treadway Commission COSO sub-Committee of the GEC in 2012 and is amaterial effect on the Financial statements.
BG Groups internal controls afurther evolution of previous committees provide reasonable, rather than absolute, that reviewed risk.
The RMC was formed System of internal control assurance against material loss or toreview and formulate managements The Board has established processes designed misstatement and are designed to manage, recommendations to the Board on the Groups to allow it to assess the effectiveness of the rather than eliminate, the risk of fraud or evolving risk profile and risk management overall internal control environment within failure to achieve business objectives.
processes and, in particular, to assess the BGGroup.
Each year, every member of the Groupsstrategic risks.
During the year, GECand the Company Secretary provides Where BG Group participates in joint ventures, theGroup has enhanced its Enterprise Letters of Assurance LoA to the Chief Executive the Group has varying degrees of influence RiskManagement Framework, specifically inrelation to the control environment in their and control.
BG Groups ability to assess and througha thorough overhaul of the existing areas of responsibility.
These LoAs are influence the internal control environment Business Risk Management Process, and supported by the results of the Governance within certain of its joint ventures is limited, thedevelopment and deployment of Cash Self-Assessment GSA process, which requires asdisclosed in the Principal risks and uncertainties Flow atRisk and Earnings at Risk models.
management-level reporting to the GEC and section on page 32 and the Audit Committees Formoreinformation on the development Company Secretary to assess the effectiveness Review ofEffectiveness of Internal Controls.
The ofBGGroups Enterprise Risk Management of the core controls within their areas of Group strives to take a targeted and risk-based Framework, please see the Principal risks responsibilities and to report any significant approach to influencing joint ventures, anduncertainties section on page 32. deficiencies or material weaknesses.
encouraging them where appropriate to adopt business and other standards that are Controls over financial reporting The Governance Committee reviews the LoAs atleast equivalent to BGGroup standards.
A framework of disclosure controls and and the results of the GSA process, as well as procedures is in place to support the approval discrete reports from Group Audit, the Ethical Internal control and risk management of the Groups annual consolidated accounts.
Conduct Compliance Unit and other assurance BG Groups Internal Control Framework ICF AProject Board, comprising of senior executives providers across BG Group.
Following its defines the way in which the Group operates.
with legal and financial technical experience, assessment of the overall effectiveness of the Itcomprises the Groups Business Principles has overall responsibility for the production of internal control environment, the Governance and mandatory Policies and Standards.
Within the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Project Committee reports the results of its review these, a series of core controls has been Board is responsible for reviewing the Groups tothe GEC and to the Audit Committee.
identified that contribute tothe identification annual financial reporting and disclosures and TheBoards internal control statement can andmitigation of one ormore Group risks.
accompanying assurance documentation to befound on page 79.
Corporate governance Corporate governance continued 53 INTEGRATED ASSURANCE FRAMEWORK COMMITTEE STRUCTURE Governance, Risk Management and Audit Committees LEVELS OF ASSURANCE ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK FOUR PRINCIPAL RISK CATEGORIES: FIRST LINE OF DEFENCE INTEGRATED ASSURANCE STRATEGIC POLITICAL RISK Typically represents local ofce controls FRAMEWORK and management oversight.
Captures external factors and strategic decisions.
BUSINESS DELIVERY RISK Risks related to projects up to first production.
SECOND LINE OF DEFENCE Typically Group-level oversight and functional reviews.
OPERATIONAL RISK Captures risks after first production.
THIRD LINE OF DEFENCE FINANCIAL RISK Independent assurance providers Relates to corporate level financial risks with independent reporting lines.
Internal control systems, no matter how well Inparticular, Group Audit: The Group makes use of external reserves designed, have inherent limitations and may consultant DeGolyer & MacNaughton, not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, provides an independent assessment of whichprovides independent assurance of projections of any evaluation of effectiveness BGGroups system of risk management BGGroups estimates of its gas and oil reserves to future periods are subject to the risk that andinternal control: and resources through a rolling programme internal controls may become inadequate ofreviews which covers a proportion of the assists management by carrying out because of changes in conditions, or that the reserves portfolio each year.
In 2012, Miller independent appraisals of the effectiveness degree of compliance with the policies or andLents completed a review of the resources ofthe internal control environment and procedures may deteriorate.
making recommendations for improvement:and Independent assurance A key element of BG Groups Governance supports development of the Framework is independent assurance, which Groupsgovernance and business risk isprovided primarily by independent external management policies.
auditors, other external assurance providers and Group Audit.
Group Audit provides The independent external auditors report assurance to the Board, Audit Committee, toshareholders and their audit opinion GECand management that effective internal ontheapplicable section of the Financial control processes are in place to identify statements are set out on page 82. andmanage business risk across the Group.
54 Corporate governance Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Corporate governance continued AUDIT COMMITTEE MARK SELIGMAN COMMITTEE MEMBERS CHAIRMAN OF THE Mark Seligman Committee Chairman AUDIT COMMITTEE Baroness Hogg Dr John Hood Caio Koch-Weser Patrick Thomas For full biographies, see page 44 to 45 During 2012, the global political and Role of the Committee Key activities economic environment continued to prove The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling Integrity of Financial statements and disclosures challenging.
In addition, BG Group faced itsresponsibilities in respect of: overseeing The Audit Committee assisted the Board anumber of particular challenges, notably BGGroups financial reporting processes: theway inensuring the integrity of the Financial the required increase in the underlying in which management ensures andmonitors the statements and related disclosures.
It reviewed investment in QCLNG to $20.4 billion, adequacy of financial and compliance controls the quarterly financial results announcements, a$1.3billion non-cash post-tax impairment and business risk management processes: the reported theoutcome of its reviews and on US shale gas assets and production appointment, remuneration, independence maderecommendations to the Board based issues in Egypt and the UK.
and performance ofthe Groups external auditors: onthesereviews.
The Committee also reviewed and theindependence and performance of the processes to assure the integrity of the The Committees work and our audit, GroupAudit.
Annual Report and Accounts, in particular: internal control and risk management systems continue to evolve to maintain Details of the work carried out by the the reserves and resources booking process: theintegrity of our financial andinternal Committee in accordance with its terms of the work undertaken to support the going controls and the effective identification reference and in addressing significant issues concern statement: and management of risk.
This evolution are reported to the Board as a matter of course the management representation letter willcontinue to be a key focus for the by the Chairman ofthe Committee and are totheexternal auditors: Committee during 2013.
Further details of described in this report.
The terms of reference that the information presented in the report, BGGroups Principal risks and uncertainties forthe Committee can be found at when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and are set outin the Business review.
com auditcommittee understandable and contains the information necessary for shareholders to assess the The Committee has spent considerable time Committee membership Companys performance, business model focusing on BG Groups funding plans In April, Caio Koch-Weser was appointed as a andstrategy: andliquidity given the Groups substantial member of the Committee and, in May, Andrew the effectiveness of the disclosure controls capital expenditure programme.
During Gould retired as a member of the Committee andprocedures designed to ensure the Annual theyear, the Group successfully raised upon his appointment as Chairman.
Report and Accounts comply with all relevant some $2.1 billion equivalent raised by way legal and regulatory requirements: and ofhybrid bond issues, and$2.9 billion Mark Seligman, as a chartered accountant, has the process designed to ensure the external through disposalsto fund itsgrowth plans.
been determined by the Board as the member auditors are aware of all relevant audit of the Committee having recent and relevant information, as required by Sections 418 In October, the Group announced that, financial experience, as required by the Governance and419 of the Companies Act 2006. following a competitive tender process, Code.
All members of the Committee are deemed itwas proposing to appoint Ernst & Young to be independent and the Committee has Risk management and internal controls LLP E&Y as auditor of the Group.
Further concluded that its membership meets the Following the appointment of a Chief Risk Officer details of the tender process are set out requirements of the Governance Code.
and a new Head of Group Audit in late 2011, the onpage 55.
On behalf of the Board, I would Committee continued to provide oversight during like to thank  Meetings are normally attended by the Chairman, the year to BG Groups risk management and LLPfor the high quality of audit services the Interim Chief Financial Officer, the Group internal control systems.
The Committee reviewed theyhave provided to the Group and Financial Controller, the Head ofGroup Audit the effectiveness ofthe Groups risk management Ilookforward to working closely with and representatives of the external auditors.
and internal control systems and also reviewed E&Ygoingforward.
reports from management relating to internal The Audit Committees performance was control and assurance, fraud risk management, Mark Seligman assessed as part of the Boards Annual andSpeak Up whistleblowing.
Based on its review, Chairman of the Audit Committee Effectiveness Review.
It was concluded that theCommittee has reported to the Board thatit is theCommittee operated effectively.
satisfied that the risk management and internal control systems inplace for the period 1January 2012 to the date ofthis report areeffective.
It should be noted that the Groups assessment of the risk management and internal control systems Andrew Gould and Philippe Varin stepped down from the Audit Committee on 16 May 2012 and 11 February 2013 respectively.
CaioKoch-Weser joined the Audit Committee on 10 April 2012.
Corporate governance Corporate governance continued 55 in joint ventures over which BG Group does not and removal of the Head of Group Audit is expertise and remained independent of BGGroup exercise control is limited by the degree of amatter for the Audit Committee.
and that the audit process waseffective.
influence and access to information and resources that the Group has within that joint venture.
The Committee approved Group Audits plan Following the tender process and the appointment for 2012 which was primarily risk-based and of E&Y, the Committee reviewed the proposed Particular areas of focus during the year reviewed staffing levels and qualifications to engagement letter and determined the proposed During the year, the Committee focused ensure these were appropriate and adequate remuneration of E&Y in accordance with onanumber of other significant areas: forthe delivery of the plan.
theauthority given to it by shareholders.
The Committee considered the proposed auditors reviewing in depth the processes and outcomes During the year, the Committee received remuneration to be appropriate.
supporting managements production and regular reports from the Head of Group reserves forecasts and business planning: Auditsummarising the findings from Group The Group will continue the practice of the reviewing the process for the agreement Audits work and the responses from, and rotation of audit engagement partner at least ofa$1.3 billion non-cash post-tax impairment action plansestablished by, management.
every five years, and all other partners and on US shale gas assets: TheCommittee monitored the progress senior management will be required to rotate reviewing the processes to conclude that no ofthemost significantaction plans to atleast every seven years.
impairment was required, both on the West ensurethese were completed satisfactorily.
DeltaDeep Marine field in Egypt following Non-audit fees areserves downgrade and an increase in External auditors The Committee believes that non-audit work receivables, andin Australia following revisions The Audit Committee manages the relationship may only be undertaken by the external auditors to the Groups expected investment in with the Groups external auditors, on behalf in limited circumstances.
The Committee QCLNGannounced inthe second quarter: of the Board.
As detailed in the 2011 Annual monitors the target that non-audit fees do not accounting and reporting judgements on Report, theCommittee recognised that exceed 15% of the total audit fee in any year.
receivables, impairments, going concern  LLP PwC had been inrelation to the Financial statements on theGroups external auditors since incorporation Focus is given to ensuring that engagement for aquarterly basis, and significant accounting and, tosupport best practice in corporate non-audit services does not: create a mutuality policies and estimates of the Group under governance, and in recognition of feedback of interest: place the auditors in a position IFRSs on an annual basis: from institutional investors, undertook during toaudit their own work: result in the auditors the Groups Cash Flow at Risk model in the the year a full tender process for external audit acting as a manager or employee: or put the context of the review of going concern: services.
Further detail of the tender process auditors in the role of advocate for BG Group.
reports from management in relation to funding, undertaken and resulting recommendation liquidity and going concern, and the testing of toappoint Ernst & Young LLP E&Y as auditors The Committee regularly reviews the nature of these against the Groups business cycle: tothe Group is set out in the box below.
non-audit work performed by the auditors and the change programme introduced by the new the volume of that work.
An analysis of fees Head of Group Audit following the independent During the year, the Committee carried out its paid in respect of audit and non-audit services review of Group Audit undertaken in 2011: annual assessment of the auditors and reported provided by PwC for the past two years is reports from management and the external to the Board on its findings.
To support this disclosed in note 2, page 97.
Having undertaken auditor in relation to business continuity assessment, Committee members and relevant areview of the non-audit services provided planning, and information and cyber security members of management were invited during the year, the Committee is satisfied anddata management: tocomplete a questionnaire on their views that these services were provided efficiently reviewing the programme that has been put aboutthe auditors performance during the by the external auditors as a result of their inplace to ensure that the Group complies year.
The feedback received was reviewed by existing knowledge of the business and did not withthe UK Bribery Act 2010: management and reported to the Committee.
prejudice their independence or objectivity.
periodic business updates from senior finance Inaddition, the Committee reviewed the managers: and AuditInspection Units public report on the Following the decision to appoint E&Y as external changes to Group segmental reporting.
2011 12 inspection of both PwC and E&Y.
auditors, focus was given to the consideration of any work currently undertaken on behalf of Group Audit After taking these reports into consideration, the Group which, on their appointment, would The Committee is responsible for monitoring together with the auditors report on their constitute non-audit work and the Committee and reviewing the operation and effectiveness approach to audit quality and transparency, took an active role in monitoring the process of Group Audit, including its strategic focus, theCommittee concluded that the auditors for the re-tender of this work.
The appointment demonstrated appropriate qualifications and EXTERNAL AUDITOR TENDER Firms invited to tender Group Audit, Secretariat, Legal, Tax, organisation, capability and Following notice to shareholders in the 2011 andContracts and Procurement.
servicedelivery including global Annual Report and in a process led by the Following a review and evaluation of coverage, industry experience and Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Group submissions by the tender team, all four technical expertise: chose to limit the tender to the Big Four audit firmswere invited to present to the audit quality including quality firms  LLP, Deloitte Chairman of the Audit Committee, the assuranceand compliance procedures, LLP, Ernst & Young LLP and KPMG Audit plc Senior Independent Director, theChief audit methodology, partner rotation to ensure all prospective firms had the required Financial Officer and the tender team.
andsuccession planning: global coverage and depth of industry experience A shortlist of two firms presented their audit approach including audit planning necessary to deliver the Groups audit scope.
proposals to members of the full Audit and scope, materiality and risk focus: and Committee in June 2012. team capability and fit including Tender process experience, team structure and supervision.
Request for a proposal document was Criteria developed in consultation with the Chairman Criteria for evaluation were developed which Cost effectiveness was considered to of the AuditCommittee andtheChief incorporated key aspects of the Financial beasecondary award criterion and was Financial Officer.
Reporting Councils Audit Quality Framework addressed with the two short-listed firms A tender team was appointed comprising and appropriate weighting was given to: during the final stage of the process.
senior representatives from Finance, 56 Corporate governance Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Corporate governance continued SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE SIR DAVID MANNING COMMITTEE MEMBERS CHAIRMAN OF THE Sir David Manning Committee Chairman SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE Peter Backhouse Vivienne Cox Andrew Gould Dr John Hood Martin Houston Caio Koch-Weser For full biographies, see page 44 to 45 Safety is BG Groups first priority.
As part The Committee reviews and scrutinises considering the Groups approach to new of our focus on safety, during the year the BGGroups work in engaging with its stakeholders country entry and political and sustainability Sustainability Committee reviewed HSSE in government, the political world, civil society, considerations regarding specific and asset integrity performance at BG Groups themedia and the communities in areas opportunities: operations in Queensland, Australia.
The wheretheGroup already operates, or may adopting new targets for GHG emissions to 2017: president and chief operating officer of operate in the future.
In this work, the Bechtel, the lead contractor at the QCLNG Committee supports theestablishment and reviewing the Groups water strategy and the project, briefed the Committee on efforts maintenance of the GroupsBusiness Principles particular approach to water management in to improve safety performance.
and its Licence toOperate strategy.
Australia and Egypt, see page 41 : and reviewing the Groups management of ethical In addition to a relentless focus on safety, the Detailed terms of reference for the Committee conduct, including bribery, corruption and Committee has reviewed with management canbe found at www.
the development and maintenance of a  broad Licence to Operate strategy, tailored Egypt visit to countries where we operate already and Relevant skills and experience In September 2012, members of the potential new countries for future operations.
The Committee comprises both Executive and Committee visited Egypt as a part of the wider Initiatives within this strategy include Non-Executive Directors who bring a broad Board visit.
Committee members met informally targeted, effective social investment.
The range of skills, experience and knowledge in with the local management team, including Committee also reviewed BG Groups water relation to international finance and business the Asset General Manager, Vice President, strategy see page 41 and agreed that leadership, geo-political and socio-economic Policy and Corporate Affairs, Social Performance water management was now a key licence matters, and the extractive industries.
Manager and the general manager, Rashpetcotooperate issue.
The Committee also met formally Meetings of the Committee are normally while in Cairo: Separately, in October 2012, BG Group attended by the Executive Vice President, Policy achieved its greenhouse gas GHG emissions and Corporate Affairs and the Senior Vice to discuss the HSSE and asset integrity reduction target, cutting emissions by more President, HSSE, Asset Integrity and Group challenges facing the asset.
The Committee than 1.2 million tonnes per annum from Well Risk Management.
heard from the local management team about 2007 to2012.
Following this, the Sustainability the lessons learnt from the country evacuation Committee has overseen the introduction Key activities during 2012 during the 2011 revolution and the procedures ofa new target for the next five years, During the year, the Committees key now in place: which aims to reduce the overall intensity activitiesincluded: ofthe Groups GHG emissions by 10%.
to hear more about the specific environmental considering the Groups HSSE and asset challenges facing the asset, including the The Committee also reviewed key integrity performance: solutions in place to manage waste water: and developments in the management of ethical considering regular reports on the Groups to understand further the social performance conduct in BG Group.
In 2012, efforts to safety performance in QGC, including updates initiatives being developed, which included the ensure high standards of ethicalconduct from Bechtel Corporation, the lead contractor further promotion of community consultation, included incorporating ethical conduct for the QCLNG Project: such as the establishment of mobile community duediligence and riskmanagement into engagement units, and the development of Contracts and Procurements sourcing reviewing the Groups participation in the the Sustainable Livelihoods Project.
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, Rio 20: Sir David Manning considering the outcome of the Egyptian Chairman of the Sustainability Committee presidential andQueensland state elections: Sir Robert Wilson and Sir Frank Chapman stepped down from the Sustainability Committee on 16 May 2012 and 31 December 2012 respectively.
Vivienne Cox joined the Sustainability Committee on 10 April 2012.
Corporate governance Corporate governance continued 57 Spadeadam test site NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE The Committee will continue to review In October 2012, members of the Committee managements ongoing succession plans for and certain other Board members took part in Andrew Gould Committee Chairman theidentification and development of senior the Groups Major Accident Hazard Awareness Baroness Hogg management with potential for Board and programme at RAF Spadeadam in Cumbria.
The Dr John Hood GECpositions.
Thiswill include monitoring programme included live full-scale major hazards Sir David Manning managements diversity including gender and simulations, dramatisation of a major accident global mobility initiatives which are becoming case study, teaching sessions and interactive Key activities during 2012 of increasing cultural importance as the workshop discussions.
The Committee felt reviewed the size, balance and composition of international reachof the Groups operations that the course was very effective in its aim the Board and recommended the appointment grows.
The Committee recognises that the tobuildawareness of major accident hazards, of Vivienne Cox and Lim Haw-Kuang as Directors traditionally male oil and gas industry faces their causes and effects, and highlight of the Board: aparticular challenge on gender diversity but it themeasures employed by BG Group to made recommendations to the Board with supports managements current initiatives to manage the associated risks.
regard to the membership of Board Committees, strengthen the development programmes for in conjunction with the Chairman of each women withthe right skills and experience at all The importance ofrigorous safety standards relevant Committee: levels withinthe organisation.
The Committee inall our operations was brought to life by the onbehalf of the Board supports the aspiration programme: we were particularly impressed reviewed with management the Groups ofmanagement to increase the proportion bythe power of the case study dramatisations.
management resources, and the succession ofwomen in leadership positions including We asked for a number of follow-up actions to and development plans for the most senior atBoard level to an overall 20% by 2020, and to allow us to monitor major hazards better and executive positions.
The Committee and the foster greater gender diversity in recruitment were united in the view that attendance on the wider Board also met with high-potential at graduate level.
course should be compulsory for people moving individuals over a specially organised dinner: into operational leadership roles.
We were made recommendations to the Board regarding During the year, the Committee considered alsoencouraged that a similar facility is now the re-election of Directors by shareholders: and thecontinued appointment of Peter Backhouse operational in Brisbane to allow more Group who has served on the Board for over 12 years.
employees the opportunity to participate reviewed any potential Directors conflicts TheCommittee considered that Mr Backhouse inthisexcellent programme.
ofinterest under UK company law, and should be invited to remain as a Non-Executive maderecommendations to the Board for Director for one further year in light of his PETER BACKHOUSE authorisation of any conflicts.
accumulated knowledge of the Group and his MEMBER OF THE wider industry expertise.
In taking this decision, SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE The Boards policy on diversity is set out in the the Committee took into consideration that Chairmans statement on page 48.
The Boards Mr Backhouses skills and experience would external evaluation during 2012 noted the prove useful support for the Board during 2013 priorities importance of securing sufficient industry and ChrisFinlaysons first year as Chief Executive.
The Sustainability Committees performance sector knowledge and global experience as part of was assessed as part of the Boards Annual the continued refreshment of the Board, and that The Committee also considered the continued Effectiveness Review.
It was concluded diversity including, butnot limited to, gender of appointment of Philippe Varin and concluded thattheCommittee operated effectively.
backgrounds and professional experience would that, in view of Mr Varins ongoing commitments become an important future consideration.
as chairman of the managing board at PSA The Committee will continue to focus Peugeot Citron, it would be appropriate for in2013on evolving political, regulatory Succession plans for the Non-Executive Directors him to retire as a Non-Executive Director.
and Executive Directors were kept under review during the year and the appointments of Vivienne During the year, the Committee retained the Cox February 2012 and Lim Haw-Kuang March services of the search consultants JCA Group 2013 have assisted in adding sector knowledge and to assist in identifying potential candidates in reducing the gender imbalance on the Board fornomination to the Board.
JCA Group is currently 15% female.
Succession plans for the asignatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct Senior Independent Director, Baroness Hogg, ongender diversity and best practice.
who hasbeen on the Board for eight years, willbegin to be actively considered during 2013.
FINANCE COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS COMMITTEE Remuneration Committee The Committees principal responsibility Andrew Gould Committee Chairman Andrew Gould Committee Chairman isfor setting, reviewing and recommending Chris Finlayson Chris Finlayson to the Board for approval BG Groups overall Den Jones Den Jones remuneration policyand strategy, and setting remuneration arrangements The Committee is responsible for funding and The role of the Chairmans Committee is to advise forExecutive Directors, members of the treasury policy decisions.
During the year, the and assist the Chairman in the preparation for GECandCompany Secretary.
Full details Committee considered reports on treasury activity, Board meetings.
The Committee also acts on oftheCommittees responsibilities, and the Groups funding plans, cash management, behalf of the Board between scheduled meetings, areportof its activities during the year, hedging and forward gas sales.
In July 2012, the within clearly defined delegated authority.
areset out in the Remuneration report Committee approved the increase and extension on pages 60 to 75. of the Groups committed bank credit facilities to $5.2billion.
The Committee also oversaw the work streams regarding the issuance of a hybrid bond inJune 2012 which resulted in just over $2billion being raised across three currencies in a period ofthree days.
The Committee will continue tomonitor the Groups funding requirements anddebt market conditions during 2013.
