Risk & Solvency Committee report At a glance Committee membership Key items in the Terms of Reference Attendees Number of meetings attended attended maximum To lead the review of risk management, risk appetite, solvency 1 and capital: Marty Feinstein Chairman 2 2 To review and make recommendations to the Board regarding the Nigel Buchanan 5 5 Own Risk & Solvency Assessment ORSA : Sir Alan Collins 5 5 To review the adequacy, effectiveness and governance of the Groups Richard Davey 5 5 2 Internal Model: and Shonaid Jemmett-Page 2 2 To review, jointly with the Audit Committee, the effectiveness of internal Former members controls and risk management systems and enable recommendation 3 Roger Taylor 2 2 that the Board approves the internal control statement.
The Terms of Reference were last reviewed by the Board on 14 November 2012 and may be found on the Companys website www.
com in the Governance & Responsibility section.
2012 Key items considered Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Review of internal control statement Report from Group Chief Risk Report from Group Chief Risk Report from Group Chief Risk Officer covering Areas of Concern Officer covering Areas of Concern Officer covering Areas of Concern, and Group Executive Risk and Group Executive Risk Group Executive Risk Committee Committee activities Committee activities activities, flood risk exposures, risk tolerances, reinsurance and credit exposures Review of ORSA Review of ORSA Review of ORSA Review of ORSA Report from Group Chief Risk Report from DFA Steering Report from DFA Steering Report from DFA Steering Officer covering Areas of Concern, Committee on the Internal Model Committee on the Internal Model Committee on the Internal Model Group Executive Risk Committee development and governance development and governance development.
Review of model activities and Reverse Stress changes policy.
Update on tests output validation and data quality and external validation Review of Committee performance Update on Pillar III external Review of standard formula for Proposals for Independent regulatory reporting preparations Solvency Capital Requirement Validation of the Internal Model submission to regulator under business as usual Review of risk management Review of external catastrophe Review of expert judgements and approach for Operational Risk model validation data quality limitations arising from audit Report from DFA Steering Review of Terms of Reference Discussion on the use and Committee on internal model of Committee calculation of diversification credit.
development and governance Review of Remuneration Policy Risk Private session with Group Private session with Group Chief Risk Officer without Chief Risk Officer without management present management present Note: 1.
Marty Feinstein attended five meetings but was only appointed to the Committee as its Chairman in October 2012.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page joined the Committee in October 2012.
Roger Taylor retired on 17 May 2012.
72 72 Performance Strategic overview Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements 2013 Key objectives Dear Shareholder I have already mentioned that Risk is a complex area: this is made more so with the different Continued development and challenge As the Chairman of the Risk & Solvency regulatory regimes facing a group such Committee, a role I took over from Richard of the Group Own Risk & Solvency as Amlin.
These regimes have varying Davey in October 2012, my first duty is to Assessment ORSA : implementation dates and definitions, thank him for chairing the Committee since its Internal Model validation moving impacting the Group capital requirements formation in 2011.
Richard had encouraged a onto business as usual footing: differently.
The Committee has focused the strong Committee which has developed a firm majority of its time in 2012 looking at how understanding of the complexities of risk and Effectiveness review of Risk the Internal Model works and drives our capital risk mitigation within a complex group like Management process: and requirements, how the Internal Model can be Amlin.
Throughout the process he has been used to drive our business plans: and how we Review and challenge of stress, ably supported by the executive management, validate both the input into the Internal Model reverse stress and scenario testing.
especially the Group Chief Risk Officer James and the output generated.
It was also able to Illingworth, and by non-executives, especially devote some time in each meeting to particular Nigel Buchanan.
Nigel Buchanan will be areas or processes at greater detail.
One such retiring from the Committee on 16 May 2013 detailed review was into the use and calculation and we will miss his contribution.
I am of diversification credit when calculating the heartened, that we have already welcomed Group capital requirements.
These reviews Shonaid JemmettPage to the Committee, enable exploration of more complex areas in and that her insight has already proved to be greater depth, and will continue in 2013. thought provoking.
I am also encouraged that Julie Chakraverty will be taking an active part Yours sincerely in the risk discussion in 2013.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page joined the Committee in October 2012, bringing with her a wealth of international finance and commercial experience, supplementing the international experience of both Sir Alan Collins and myself.
Nigel Buchanan is also a member of the Marty Feinstein Remuneration Committee and this common 1 March 2013 membership ensures that the Risk & Solvency Committee works with the Remuneration Committee in the assessment of Remuneration Risks and the controls put in place to mitigate these.
Julie Chakraverty joined the Committee on her appointment on 1 January 2013 and has also joined the Remuneration Committee, ensuring that the synergies between Committees remain after Nigel Buchanans retirement.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 73 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 73 Risk & Solvency Committee report continued Purpose and Terms of Reference Olympics arrangements, a review of action The main purpose of the Risk & Solvency and contingency planning in the event of a Committee is to provide an effective and significant banking failure in Europe, and robust challenge on the assumptions made the possible impact of global flooding on by executive management concerning the key supply chains.
and emerging risks facing the business.
The More detailed reviews on particular areas were Committee draws on its wide and varied also undertaken.
During 2012 these included experience to provide a human element of the use and calculation of risk diversification challenge to the calculations created by the credit in the assessment of Group capital Internal Model and to ensure that challenge is requirements: a review of underwriting risks replicated at all levels of the review process.
such as UK flood and other catastrophe To assist in this, the Committee and other exposures: reinsurance credit risk: and the members of the Board have had regular validation process for the Internal Model.
training sessions and reviews elements of the business to ensure that the level of technical The Committee also undertook a detailed challenge is appropriate in providing the Board review of the retrocessional reinsurance the comfort required.
arrangements and their impact on earnings and capital, which helped influence the discussion The Committee received and considered on catastrophe risk tolerances for 2012 and detailed papers and information sufficiently ultimately 2013. in advance of its meetings for its members to consider them appropriately, making The Committee also meets jointly with the suggestions for improvements when required.
Audit Committee on an annual basis to consider the Statement on Internal Controls Activities in 2012 and the Principal risks and uncertainties In 2012, the Committee was particularly identified for the business.
Further details of focused on the further development of the the Committees role regarding internal control ORSA process, which is now being used to a issues are set out in the Board internal control much greater degree than previously to assist statement p62 within the Board Corporate in the development of Group strategy.
metrics provided above offer examples of the ORSA output, with the solvency, catastrophe As Risk is a complex subject, the Committee risk and reserving risk illustrations being derived has had regular training sessions to ensure that direct from the ORSA as at 31 December 2012. the level of technical challenge is appropriate.
As the ORSA is used more widely the role of Priorities for 2013 the Committee in challenging data quality and The Committees priorities for 2013 will be to: the validity of the Internal Model becomes of ensure that the Committee actively uses increasing importance, and the Committee the ORSA to review and challenge the risk devoted a considerable amount of its time and solvency status of the Group and of to the Internal Model during 2012. its regulated entities: Through the Committees understanding of the provide oversight and guidance of the Internal Model processes, it was ideally placed Internal Model Validation process and to review and recommend the documentation reporting, and to ensure these meet to be submitted to the FSA as part of the regulatory expectations: Solvency II submission.
The Committee also reviews validation reports produced by internal periodically review aspects of the risk and external experts.
Amlin was one of the management framework to ensure it remains effective and fit for purpose: and first UK companies to complete the full Solvency II submission.
direct the nature of stress and reverse stresses to be applied to the organisations The Committee kept the Groups risk business strategy and plans to provide management framework under review to ensure assurance that these are robust under it continues to prove effective.
The framework is a range of future scenarios.
displayed in diagrammatic form on page 26.
At each of its meetings, the Committee receives regular reports from the Group Chief Risk Officer and from the Group Executive Risk Committee.
These include a report on Areas of Concern which ensures that the Committee is promptly informed of significant developments impacting the business risk profile.
Discussion included a review of the short-term implications for business continuity as a result of the 2012 74 74 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin actively supports employees taking part in charity work and fundraising events.
Over 100,000 was raised when Amlin staff, along with business contacts from the broker market, took part in the gruelling Dallaglio Flintoff Slam, cycling 578 kilometers from Nancy to London.
