Audit Committee report Key items in the Terms of Reference At a glance Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating to the Companys Committee membership financial performance: Attendees Number of meetings attended attended maximum Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function and agree an effective Group internal audit programme Nigel Buchanan Chairman 5 5 with the Head of Internal Audit: Sir Alan Collins 5 5 Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group Compliance Marty Feinstein 5 5 1 function and agree an effective Group compliance programme Shonaid Jemmett-Page 1 1 with the Head of Group Compliance: Former member Review the effectiveness of the internal control framework: 2 Richard Davey 2 2 Lead the process of review and make recommendations to the Board with regards to the external auditors: Approve the remuneration of the external auditors: and Review the Groups Whistleblowing procedures.
The Terms of Reference were last reviewed by the Board on 14 November 2012 and may be found on the Companys website www.
com in the Governance & Responsibility section.
2012 Key items considered Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Joint meeting with Risk & Solvency Amlin plc quarterly management Review of interim results Amlin plc interim management Committee to review internal statement statement control statement and principal risks and uncertainties Amlin plc Report & Accounts Non-audit fees Auditor fees Discussion on Amlin Europe IT Platform Reappointment of Auditors Review of Internal Control Statement Compliance Report Compliance Report Compliance Report Compliance Report Group Internal Audit Report Group Internal Audit Report Group Internal Audit Report Group Internal Audit Report Review of whistleblowing policy Anti-Bribery and Corruption External evaluation of Internal Audit Business Continuity Management legislation Committee performance evaluation Taxation Review of Terms of Reference of Committee Private session with PwC without Private session with Head Private session with Head management present of Internal Audit without of Internal Audit without management present management present Note: 1.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page was appointed to the Committee on 1 September 2012.
Richard Davey resigned from the Committee on 17 May 2012.
68 68 Performance Strategic overview Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements 2013 Key objectives Dear Shareholder In addition, the Committee instructed an external third party, Independent Audit Limited, Review the effectiveness of the An Audit Committee plays an integral part in to carry out a review of the Internal Audit the monitoring, testing and review of internal Groups current internal control function, which was completed in May 2012. controls within any business.
At Amlin we firmly and compliance regimes: The review has confirmed the Committees and believe that the Audit Committee adds value Review and approve the Companys senior managements opinion, that the Internal through not only reviewing the current control Interim Results Statements and Audit function is well led, managed and regime and ensuring all governance obligations Annual Report and Accounts: respected within the Group and completes its are met, but also through offering insight and role as internal auditor with the professionalism experience on potential areas of exposure.
Recommend the appointment of expected of it.
The review also highlighted a The role of the Audit Committee within Amlin is auditors and approval of audit fees: number of areas where improvements could not just to review Financial Reporting including be made to the work of the department and its Review and approval of related matters, although this itself is an interaction with the Groups businesses.
A plan non-audit fees: important task.
The Committee also reviews has been established to address these which how the Internal Audit function operates across Review and approve the Internal Audit will be implemented over the next two years.
the Group and the plans and work undertaken and Compliance plans for 2014: With the adoption of a new IT platform within during the year: how the Compliance function Amlin Europe, the Committee, via the Internal Monitor progress on the 2013 plans operates across the Group to ensure that Audit function, has spent considerable time for Internal Audit and Compliance: and action is being taken to mitigate exposure to understanding and monitoring the controls compliance risks: and ensures that appropriate and checks put in place to ensure the platform Effect a successful handover to a new controls are in place to permit staff to report operated appropriately and that there was a Committee Chairman.
matters of concern through whistleblowing successful transfer of data to it.
policies as the business develops.
These are discussed in detail overleaf.
The Committee also reviewed the plans to review the end-to-end data management During 2012 the Committee looked at several systems for finance and risk and, after important financial activities including the deliberation, agreed with managements accounting treatment of the catastrophe bond recommendation, following a competitive launched in 2011, which was discussed and tender, to appoint PwC to carry out the first agreed with the auditor: reviewed the actuarial stage of the programme, noting that PwC benchmarking of reserves: and non-audit fees.
would be explicitly excluded from completing The latter we discuss in detail on page 71. the implementation phase in accordance with The Committee has looked in detail at how the policy on non-audit services.
its membership would be strengthened in the future, following Richard Daveys decision to I will be retiring as a Director and as Chairman stand down from the Committee, and knowing of the Audit Committee at the AGM in 2013.
It that my tenure as Chairman would end at has been a privilege to serve as the Chairman some point in 2013.
To that effect, and in of the Audit Committee and a pleasure to work co-operation with the Nomination Committee, with a first-class team of individuals.
we were delighted when Shonaid Jemmett-Page Yours sincerely was recruited to the Board, joined the Committee and agreed to take over from me as Chairman.
Her recruitment provides additional recent and relevant financial experience to the Committee and her experience in managing international businesses will complement the strong international focus that the Committee Nigel Buchanan and Group have developed.
1 March 2013 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 69 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 69 Audit Committee report continued Purpose and Terms of Reference Internal control and Compliance Activities in 2012 The purpose of the Audit Committee Financial Reporting and External Audit Details of the Committees role regarding Committee is to review, take certain decisions The prime financial reporting focus of the internal control issues are set out in the Board relating to, and make recommendations to the Committee during the year was on the integrity internal control statement on page 62 within Board regarding the financial reporting, external of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts the Board Corporate Governance statement.
auditors, internal control, internal audit, and and its Interim Management Statements.
For Additionally, the Committee reviewed the certain regulatory and compliance matters.
the 2012 financial results, the Committee activities of the Group Compliance function considered issues that required specific during the year.
The terms of reference of the Committee are accounting treatment such as the treatment designed to enable it to take an independent Membership of the Committee of the catastrophe bond: non-consolidation view of the appropriateness of the Groups The Committees membership, number of of asset managers: the accounting treatment accounting policies, practices and reporting: meetings and attendance during the year of the costs of the new IT platform for Amlin compliance and internal control processes: and are set out above.
Further details of the Europe AE, and the relative reserving margins the internal audit process and effectiveness.
qualifications and experience of Committee held at year end, in particular for the natural The terms of reference also place responsibility members may be found on page on catastrophes which occurred in 2012.
The halfon the Committee to consider the appointment page 56 57.
Both the Nomination Committee, year financial statement, annual report and and fees both audit and non-audit of the in making its recommendations to the Board, each Interim Management Statement of the external auditors, who have unrestricted access and the Committee in its own self-evaluation, Company were reviewed by the Committee.
The terms of reference are compliant with reviews the Committees membership.
In the Solvency II and continue to take full account view of the Board, the combination of audit, The Committee was satisfied that the significant of the Smith Report on the role of the Audit wider financial services, international trade and assumptions underlying the reported figures Committee and the FRC's Guidance to Audit insurance experience provides an appropriate were justified and that there was appropriate Committees issued in September 2012.
They group of experienced professionals to fulfil the and meaningful disclosure of the critical are available in the Corporate Governance duties of the Committee.
In addition, all the judgements and key estimates made in section on Investor Relations on the current Committee members also serve on supporting these assumptions.
the Risk & Solvency Committee, retaining Reports were received from the external a strong link between the risk and audit The Committee has the authority to engage auditors in respect of each set of financial review processes.
its own independent external advice at the statements.
The material judgemental areas Companys expense.
During the year, in The Chairman of the Company, the Group were highlighted and then discussed by the Chief Executive, the Group Finance & collaboration with the Executive, it engaged Committee with the auditors alongside Operations Director, the Chief Risk Officer, Independent Audit Limited to review the reports from management.
Significant the Head of Internal Audit and the Group Head Internal Audit function.
No other external additional issues reviewed by the Committee of Compliance usually attend the Committees advice, other than that from the external during the year include the implementation meetings.
During 2013 the Committee will auditors, was requested during the year.
of the new IT platform in Amlin Europe and meet privately with the Group Head of The Committees activities can be divided into anti-bribery controls.
Compliance who also has a private line of three interlinked areas: financial reporting and Internal Audit communication with the Committee Chairman.
external audit: internal control and compliance: The Committee reviewed the plans and work and internal audit.
Additionally, although The Committee received and reviewed detailed undertaken during the year by the Groups consideration of risk is within the remit of papers and information sufficiently in advance Internal Audit function, including reports the Risk & Solvency Committee, the Audit of its meetings for its members to consider relating to overseas subsidiaries, and the Committee received reports on risk during them appropriately, making suggestions for consequent actions agreed with management.
the year to enable it to consider these three improvements to these papers when required.
The findings of all internal audit reports were main areas with reference to the risks facing At least once a year the Committee meets, considered by the Committee which enabled the Group.
The Committee meets jointly with both on its own and with the external auditors, the Committee to question the Head of Internal the Risk & Solvency Committee on an annual without any executive management present.
Managements progress basis to consider the Statement on Internal The Committee also meets privately with the in addressing the matters raised was closely Controls and the Principal Risks and Head of Internal Audit, who has a private line of monitored, and where appropriate, the Uncertainties identified for the business.
communication with the Committee Chairman.
Committee continues to challenge management The Committee also considers the regulatory His executive reporting line is to the Group to move more quickly to resolve issues.
requirements in relation to Anti-Bribery & Chief Executive and he is appointed, and may Corruption and Competition Law and the During the year, the Internal Audit function only be dismissed, by the Committee.
controls in place to prevent these being paid particular attention to the improvements An external evaluation of the Committee, which committed, and staff reporting matters made in AE to strengthen key controls and the reviewed the Committee's Terms of Reference, of concern.
implementation of the new IT platform.
composition, procedures, contribution and The Committee also monitored the Groups effectiveness, was undertaken for the first time compliance with Lloyds and other regulatory during 2012.
The evaluation concluded that requirements and recommendations, and during the year the Committee had received reviewed the main whistleblowing procedures sufficient, reliable, and timely information operated by the Group.
from management to enable it to fulfil its 70 70 Performance Strategic overview Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements responsibilities and that it had fulfilled the Audit Committee and PwC considered duties placed upon it by its terms of reference.
the potential for a conflict and the PwC The conclusions of the evaluation were reported independence controls were reviewed as part to the Board in early 2013 and are discussed in of the formal reporting and were discussed the Nomination Committee Report.
by both the Committee and the Board.
Subsequently, Deloitte LLP was appointed Auditors and non-audit services to complete the implementation phase.
The  LLP PwC were magnitude of the project meant that the appointed as Amlin's external auditors in 2009 aggregate of all annual non-audit fees would following a comprehensive, competitive tender exceed 500,000 and, as such, after full process.
The Committee has undertaken to and thorough consideration, the Committee carry out a detailed review of the work of recommended that the Board raise the the external auditor every ten years and aggregate limit for non-audit fees to recommend whether the contract should be accommodate this specific project and for placed to tender or not.
This was subsequently agreed by Committee will make a recommendation the Board.
The Committee has considered the to the Board regarding appointment or provision of non-audit services provided by reappointment following such tender.
PwC during the year and remains satisfied that The effectiveness of the external auditors is this has not compromised their independence as auditors.
assessed at least annually and, following the review undertaken during the year, the Committee considers that this continues to be demonstrated, based on reports from management and from its own observations.
Additionally the Financial Reporting Council undertook an inspection of PwC during the year and the ensuing reports were reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee reviewed the external auditors engagement and service plans, their independence and the extent and reasons for them providing non-audit services.
Amlin has a policy in place which covers the level and type of non-audit services permissible and the approval processes for using such services.
Allowable services are approved by the CFO or CEO up to 50,000: the Audit Committee Chairman between 50,000 to 250,000: and the Audit Committee between 250,000 to 500,000 including where the aggregate of all annual non-audit fees is more than 500,000.
Any non-audit services above these limits must be justified and tendered, if appropriate, prior to approval.
A breakdown of fees paid to the auditor for non-audit work is set out in note 14 to the Accounts.
During 2012, significant work was undertaken in relation to the Groups end-to-end data management for finance and risk.
A competitive tender process was undertaken to find the most appropriate service provider for the review.
This process included tenders from four leading external providers and it was concluded that PwC was best placed to complete the initial stage of the work due to their knowledge of the Group and its systems.
In appointing PwC appropriate checks were made to ensure that the team running the project were not part of the audit team.
In addition, both the Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 71 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 71
