Performance Strategic overview Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Executive and Board, corporate governance Amlin regards Board level corporate governance as only the most visible aspect of a deeper review and decision-making structure.
It remains the philosophy of the Group that key decisions and processes, including those of an executive nature, take place within an objective governance framework, whether at Group, subsidiary or divisional level.
Committee Members Group Management Committee Kevin Allchorne James Illingworth Chair: Charles Philipps Simon Beale Philippe Regazzoni Brian Carpenter Andrew Springett Mark Farrow Jayne Styles Richard Hextall Rob Wyatt Kim Hvirgel Underwriting Review Board Simon Beale Richard Hextall Chair: Charles Philipps Brian Carpenter James Illingworth Corporate Centre Operations Committee Steve Bardell Gregoire Mauchamp Chair: Richard Hextall Mark Farrow Steve McMurray Mark Ferguson David Overall Elizabeth Graham Piyush Patel James Illingworth Peter Tavner Herman Kreulen Group Executive Risk Committee Simon Beale James Illingworth Chair: Charles Philipps Richard Hextall Investment Management Executive Richard Hextall Chair: Jayne Styles Charles Philipps Board and Board committee structure Amlin plc Board 1 Principal plc Committees Audit Remuneration Nomination Risk & Solvency Committee Committee Committee Committee Key subsidiary Boards Amlin Underwriting Ltd Amlin Europe Amlin AG See Risk Management Board Supervisory Board Board Framework on page 26 1 Subsidiary Committees AE Remuneration AAG Remuneration AUL Audit Committee AE Audit Committee Committee Committee Note: 1.
Not all committees are shown.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 61 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 61 Corporate governance report continued Control framework Executive oversight is conducted through four control failings or weaknesses have been The Group has put in place a management principal management committees, whose identified actions have been, or are being taken, structure with defined lines of responsibility membership and Chairmen are shown on to remedy these.
The Risk & Solvency and clear delegation of authority.
Committee and, where appropriate, the Audit of Group policies and standards has been Committee have received regular reports from The Group Management Committee focuses on established with which each business is management in this regard.
strategy and performance and receives updates expected to comply.
Each business or on key matters from the work of the other Risk management functional unit has clear responsibilities for three main committees.
It was enlarged during A dedicated Corporate Centre Risk Function ensuring that appropriate controls are in place 2012 so that it now comprises the heads of CCRF, which is managed by the Groups Chief at an operational level, including those in each division and regulated entity, as well as Risk Officer, oversees the management of risk respect of financial reporting processes.
Key the people responsible for key functions in the to ensure that each operating entity manages elements of the overall control environment Corporate Centre.
its risk in accordance with Group policies and are the various executive governance bodies allocated risk tolerances.
Reports from CCRF With the changes to the Board of AUL and discussed earlier in this statement.
These are reviewed and appropriate executive actions the creation of four Underwriting Practice bodies receive oral and written reports from are considered by a Group Executive Risk Boards as detailed in the CEOs review, Amlins businesses and support departments.
In addition, each regulated a Group Underwriting Review Board was Additional key control elements are the subsidiarys board is responsible for the established in October 2012.
The Underwriting subsidiary boards including where applicable oversight of its risk, supported by executive risk Review Board focuses on underwriting strategy their Audit and or Risk Committees.
These committees for each principal subsidiary.
as proposed by the Practice Boards, new boards are responsible for overseeing the underwriting initiatives, areas of concern or Risk assessment management of each subsidiary in accordance underperformance, plans and progress for Amlins Risk Assessment Process includes with Amlins policies and standards and the addressing such areas, and the adoption of use of an Enterprise Risk Management ERM requirements of their respective markets.
Amlins underwriting standards and practices system used for reporting on all the significant Board internal control statement across the Group.
identified risks to the achievement of Group The Board recognises its responsibility for the objectives, the nature and effectiveness of the Also during 2012 a Corporate Centre Operations Groups risk management and internal control controls and other management processes to Committee was established, led by the Group systems and has complied with Principle C. 2 manage these risks.
Risk tolerances are set for Finance & Operations Director, to keep under of the Code by establishing a continuous key risk categories, for example catastrophe, review the functional capability and effectiveness process for identifying, evaluating and reserving, investment and operational risk.
of all parts of the Group in line with Amlins managing the significant risks the Group faces.
The risk management framework encompasses operational policies and standards, to propose This process has been in place from the start of self-assessment of controls by Risk Owners and oversee operational priorities and major 2012 to the date of approval of this report and throughout the business coupled with change programmes, and to oversee IT strategy.
includes risks arising from social, environmental independent challenge of these assertions and ethical matters, in accordance with the The Group Executive Risk Committee by CCRF.
The risks and the controls identified Turnbull Report.
oversees the development of the Groups risk by Risk Owners within the risk management management framework, reviews the status framework are regularly reviewed by the The Board is responsible for reviewing the of risks against tolerances which have been Internal Audit function to assess the effectiveness of established systems of internal agreed by the Board, and considers the effectiveness of the controls put in place and control.
Directors are aware that any such adequacy of actions being taken to control their operation.
The Own Risk & Solvency system is designed to manage, rather than and mitigate key risks.
It also reviews the Assessment ORSA brings together key metrics eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business ORSA prior to its presentation to the Risk & on Amlins risk and solvency performance.
objectives and can only provide reasonable, Solvency Committee.
and not absolute, assurance against material Amlin operates an Internal Model which misstatement or financial loss.
Further The Investment Management Executive IME captures the key economic and risk factors that information on how the Board has maintained sets the strategic asset allocation and tactical could impact the performance of the Group.
a sound system of internal control to safeguard asset allocation ranges.
Group Investments The ORSA is produced quarterly and is used to shareholders investment and the Companys GI is assisted in its decision-making and escalate significant risks, their potential impact assets can be found in the Business Review recommendations to the boards by the on the Groups financial position, any variations on strategy and principal risks on page 27.
Investment Advisory Panel consisting of the from the agreed risk appetites, and the actions Chief Investment Officer CIO and three taken to manage those risks.
It is reviewed by The effectiveness of the Groups system of risk external experts.
both the Group Executive Risk Committee and management and internal control is reviewed the Risk & Solvency Committee.
The business functions themselves are all regularly on behalf of the Board by the Risk & described in more detail in the Review section Solvency Committee on risk management of the Annual Report.
Summaries of the matters and by the Audit Committee on governance arrangements for some key financial, financial reporting process, regulatory functions now follow.
Where significant 62 62 Performance Strategic overview Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Internal audit and compliance Reserving Internal audit and compliance monitoring work Responsibility for reserving is that of the is carried out by the Groups Internal Audit and boards of regulated subsidiaries and, at Compliance departments.
Both departments Group consolidated level, the Board.
The have reporting lines to the Group Chief Group recognises that it is important that the Executive and to the Audit Committee.
The processes by which executive management Group has established risk-based audit and reach their reserving decisions are objective compliance programmes for reviewing and and robust.
This role is performed in quarterly evaluating the internal controls and compliance meetings, which review and finalise the procedures used in the management of risk.
preliminary reserving conclusions for their businesses.
Reserving is reported at subsidiary Assessment board level each quarter and, twice-yearly, The Board receives regular reports from both to the Audit Committee.
Quarterly review the Audit Committee and the Risk & Solvency meetings receive actuarial assessments Committee, which review the main processes reviewing the consistency and prudence established by the Group, including matters of the key reserving judgements.
which are the regulatory responsibility of the boards of AUL, AIUK and AE.
These Investments Committees met jointly to perform a specific The setting and execution of the Groups assessment for the purpose of this Annual investment strategy has its own hierarchy Report.
This assessment considers all significant of responsibilities.
The relevant boards are aspects of internal control arising during the responsible for setting their Investment period covered by the report, including the Frameworks that control the practices and work of Internal Audit, and the findings are procedures governing: the setting of investment used to assist the Board in discharging its policy, the management of investment risk and review responsibilities.
At AE, changes have the management of the investment operations.
been made to finance and risk management Within this framework the boards set their own processes which have resulted in improved investment risk appetites within the overall controls.
Technology changes have taken longer Group investment appetite.
to implement than had been anticipated but the The investments are run on a multi-asset, multimajor changes required have now been manager basis with day-to-day responsibility completed.
Following on from the control delegated to GI.
improvements made in 2011, further good progress has been made in 2012 to strengthen Share capital AEs key controls.
This work is ongoing and Information concerning the share capital of the should ensure that the internal control Company in accordance with DTR 7.2.
6 may be environment at AE achieves the high standards found on page 92. to which the Group aspires by the end of 2013.
The Audit Committee has additionally reviewed and is satisfied with the Group policy whereby arrangements are made for staff, in confidence and, if they wish, via an external reporting line, to raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Committee is satisfied with these arrangements.
Business planning The Group has developed a formal structured business planning process which operates for all businesses elements.
This runs on an annual cycle with proposed plans being presented to and agreed by relevant subsidiary boards prior to being consolidated and approved by the Board.
Board reporting operates on a quarterly basis, with monthly monitoring at management level.
The Groups financial performance monitoring includes detailed reporting against plans.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 63 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 63
