Nomination Committee report At a glance Committee membership Key items in the Terms of Reference Attendees Number of meetings attended attended maximum Leading the process for appointments to the Board of the Company: Richard Davey Chairman 4 4 Review annually the time required from each Non-Executive Director of the Company: Nigel Buchanan 4 4 Sir Alan Collins 2 2 Review the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive and non-executive: and Marty Feinstein 2 2 Responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size, composition Shonaid Jemmett-Page 1 1 and balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board.
Charles Philipps 4 4 The Terms of Reference were last reviewed by the Board on Sir Mark Wrightson 4 4 14 November 2012 and may be found on the Companys website Former member www.
com in the Governance & Responsibility section.
1 Roger Taylor 1 1 2012 Key items considered Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Chairman succession planning Composition of Board Committees Non-Executive Director recruitment Non-Executive Director recruitment Election and re-election of Directors Non-Executive Director recruitment Appointment of a Non-Executive Appointment of a Non-Executive at the AGM Director Director Committee performance evaluation Non-Executive Director recruitment Age diversity on Amlin plc Board Board composition Board composition Age diversity on Amlin plc Board of Directors as at the date of this report as at the date of this report of Directors 9% 9% 18% 18% 4 4 5 5 36% 36% 36% 37% 2 2 Independent non-executive Directors Male 41 - 50 61 - 65 Independent Non-Executive Directors Male 41 50 61 65 Independent non-executive Directors Female 51 - 60 66 - 70 Independent Non-Executive Directors Female 51 60 66 70 Executive Directors and Chairman Executive Directors and Chairman Note: 1.
Roger Taylor retired as Chairman and a Director 17 May 2012.
In addition to the scheduled meetings the Committee met a further time, at short notice, to discuss a procedural matter.
64 64 Performance Strategic overview Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements 2013 Key objectives Dear Shareholder The outcomes of the 2012 Board performance evaluation were presented to the Board in late 4GXKGY CPF KORNGOGPVCVKQP As the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, February 2013 and, whilst the detail has not my first duty is to thank Roger Taylor for leading QH GZVGTPCN RGTHQTOCPEG been included in this report, the process the Committee throughout his tenure as GXCNWCVKQP EQPENWUKQPU undertaken and the high level outcomes have Chairman of the Company.
Roger had overseen 4GXKGY QH HWVWTG RGTHQTOCPEG been disclosed to allow shareholders an insight the development of a strong framework within GXCNWCVKQP CTTCPIGOGPVU CPF into how their Board functions.
The Committee the Committee and paved the way for a smooth has recommended to the Board that Marty transition to me, as Chairman both of the CPCIGOGPV UWEEGUUKQP RNCPPKPI Feinstein be appointed as Senior Independent Board and of this Committee.
Director and I am delighted that he has agreed I should also like to thank Nigel Buchanan to accept the appointment.
In addition, the who, as the Senior Independent Director, led Committee and the Board agreed to propose the succession planning for the appointment that all the Directors who wished to stand be of a new Chairman with great skill and elected or re-elected at the AGM to be held diligence, making sure that the process had in May 2013. due regard for all involved, satisfied all parties Having spent a great deal of time in 2012 and remained in compliance with the UK looking at the composition of the independent Corporate Governance Code.
Non-Executive Directors and in implementing The process for recruiting a new Chairman was a succession plan for that constituency, discussed at length in last years report and this the Committee is turning its focus in 2013 formed the main focus for the Committee in the to the succession planning for the senior first quarter of 2012, both in the official context management.
Succession planning has of the meeting and outside the meeting via historically been aimed at replacing key informal discussions between the Senior individuals when they leave.
The emphasis in Independent Non-Executive Director and a fast growing business like Amlin should now Committee members.
shift to how to develop key talent and to grow the future business and industry leaders.
There Once the appointment had been decided is more detail on this approach in the People and the transition made from Roger to me, report on pages 28-31. the focus of the Committee shifted to the recruitment of additional Non-Executive Yours sincerely Directors and the evaluation of the Boards performance by Ffion Hague from Independent Board Evaluation as external Board evaluator.
We have recruited two excellent candidates in 2012 in Shonaid Jemmett-Page and Julie Chakraverty.
I am delighted that, following Nigel Buchanans decision not to stand for Richard Davey re-election at the May 2013 Annual General 1 March 2013 Meeting, Shonaid has agreed to Chair the Audit Committee following a recommendation from the Committee.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 65 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 65 0QOKPCVKQP %QOOKVVGG TGRQTV EQPVKPWGF Purpose and Terms of Reference suggests, however, that greater attention was able to recommend to the Board the The purpose of the Nomination Committee is should be given to succession planning, the nomination of all Directors wishing to stand to ensure that the Board, its Committees and quality of Board papers and presentations, and for re-election at the AGM to be held in May those individuals who fill other leadership also to long-term strategic matters.
No Director participated in any decision positions have the right balance of experience are in hand to address these issues.
regarding his or her own position.
and qualities to deliver the strategic leadership, The evaluation confirms the Boards belief that 4GETWKVOGPV QH 0QP 'ZGEWVKXG &KTGEVQTU values, management and framework of controls the Board balance and the composition of each In response to the results of the 2011 required for the Groups success.
This purpose main Board Committee continues to remain Evaluation, the Committee continued its also includes the oversight of succession appropriate.
The Committee, when reviewing search for two additional Non-Executive planning for key executives and the identification the non-executive membership of the Board, Directors, hoping to recruit one during 2012 and nomination for Board approval of all noted that the six Non-Executive Directors, and one in early 2013.
The Committee used candidates for Board appointment.
including the Chairman, demonstrate an two external recruitment consultants, the The Committee received detailed papers appropriate mix of insurance and other financial Miles Partnership and the JCA Group to assist and information sufficiently in advance of its sector knowledge to enable the non-executives in finding individuals with the right skills and meetings for its members to consider them collectively to fulfil their role of challenge and experience and in line with the Boards policy appropriately, making suggestions for oversight.
The Nomination Committee and the on Board Diversity.
Board, following rigorous review, decided that This process culminated in the recruitment of in view of the specialist and complex nature of Activities in 2012 Shonaid Jemmett-Page in August 2012 and insurance written by Amlin and the years of $QCTF CPF %QOOKVVGG 'XCNWCVKQP Julie Chakraverty in December 2012.
The Board experience that these non-executives have, it During 2012 the Board appointed an believes that both Shonaid Jemmett-Page and would be highly beneficial to the Company to independent external evaluator, Independent Julie Chakraverty bring valuable experience and extend their tenure and to allow them to continue Board Evaluation, to conduct a thorough and skills to the Board which will add to its diversity.
in their roles as Non-Executive Directors.
rigorous evaluation of the Board, noting the Shonaid Jemmett-Page has recent and actual and potential changes to the Board and In reviewing the executive membership of the relevant financial experience and is a qualified its Committees.
Board, the Committee concluded that the skills accountant, making her an appropriate and experience the Executive Directors bring to The results of the 2012 Board and Committee successor to Nigel Buchanan on the Audit the Board are complementary to each other Evaluation were presented to the Board at the Committee.
Julie Chakraverty has a specialist and those of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board was background in risk management and fixed pleased to note that it was regarded as The evaluation has also been taken into income markets, together with experience effective and possessed sufficient skills and consideration by the Board when considering of remuneration matters within the financial experience to enable the Board to discharge the nomination of Directors for election or reservices sector.
Their biographical details its responsibilities appropriately.
The report election at the 2013 AGM and the Committee may be found on pages 56-57.
External Board evaluation External Board evaluation Q1 2012 Q2 Q3 2012 Q4 2012 Q1 2013 Process Evaluation Reporting Q1 2012 Q2 Q3 2012 Q4 2012 Q1 2013 1 to 1 Feedback sessions with Committees Process Evaluation Reporting Chairman on their respective committees 1 to 1 Feedback sessions with Comittee 1 to 1 Feedback sessions with Senior Chairman on their respective comittees Terms of Engagement & Reference agreed 1 to 1 Interviews with each Director Independent Director on Chairman 1 to 1 Feedback sessions with Senior 1 to 1 Feedback sessions with Chairman Terms of Engagement & Reference agreed 1 to 1 Interviews with each Director 1 to 1 Interviews with senior management Independent Director on Chairman Interviews and topics agreed on individual Directors and collective and the Company Secretary performance 1 to 1 Feedback sessions with Chairman 1 to 1 Interviews with senior management Interviews and topics agreed on individual directors and collective Formal report on Board performance and the Company Secretary performance presented to Board in late February Formal report on Board performance presented to Board in late February 66 66 Performance Strategic overview Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements 5WEEGUUKQP RNCPPKPI $QCTF CPF 'ZGEWVKXG &KXGTUKV[ During 2011, Roger Taylor indicated he wished Amlin remains committed to its policy of to retire as Chairman and a member of the diversity, including diversity of skills, experience, Board at the AGM to be held in 2012. nationality and gender in its appointments to the Succession plans to cover this eventuality, Board and within the Executive and will continue led by the Senior Independent Director, were to do so, recruiting individuals on merit and their discussed and reviewed by members of the suitability for the role and cognisant of the skills Committee in the absence of Roger Taylor and and experience of the rest of the Directors and with all other Board members as appropriate.
In 2011 we stated that it The Directors, after reviewing all aspects of the was Amlins aspiration that, by the end of 2015, Chairmans role and the mix of skills required to 20% of the Board should be made up of women.
fulfil this, concluded that there were sufficiently We are delighted that in May 2013 we will qualified candidates within the Board and that have achieved that target and look forward there would be no need to seek further external to continuing to follow the Statement candidates.
Following further consultation of Diversity in future appointments.
in late 2011 and early 2012 the Committee concluded that Richard Davey should be appointed as Chairman following the AGM held in 2012.
As detailed above, Non-Executive Director succession plans were reviewed by the Committee during the year, culminating in the recruitment of two further Non-Executive Directors.
Neither the Chairman, nor any other Non-Executive Director, took part in any discussions concerning their own positions.
In late 2012 Nigel Buchanan indicated he wished to retire as a Director at the AGM to be held in May 2013.
Given his knowledge of Amlin and the sector, the Board of Amlin Underwriting Limited asked him to serve as their non-executive chairman following his retirement from the Amlin plc Board, and he has agreed to accept the appointment.
Following the changes to the Board in 2012, the Committee, having reviewed succession planning for the executive in late 2011 and concluding that the plan at that date was well conceived and effectively managed, decided to delay reviewing the executive succession planning until early 2013, in line with the Talent Management Programme detailed on page 28.
The Committee believe this will allow the newer members of the Committee to become familiar with both the current succession plans and the relevant internal candidates.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 67 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 67
