Corporate governance report At a glance Attendance by Directors at scheduled Board meetings in 2012 2012 Highlights Attendees Number of meetings attended attended maximum Appointment of a new Chairman: 1 Richard Davey Chairman 7 7 Appointment of two Non-Executive Directors Simon Beale 7 7 one during the year : and Nigel Buchanan 7 7 External Board evaluation.
Brian Carpenter 7 7 Sir Alan Collins 7 7 Marty Feinstein 7 7 2013 Key objectives Richard Hextall 7 7 Maintain a robust corporate governance 2 ethos within the Group: Shonaid Jemmett-Page 2 2 Implement conclusions from external Board Charles Philipps 7 7 evaluation: and Sir Mark Wrightson Bt 7 7 Review of Board reporting.
Former members 3 Christine Bosse 4 4 4 Roger Taylor 2 2 Board and Management Committees and Committee Chairmen Group Management Corporate Centre Operations Group Underwriting Group Executive Risk Committee Committee Review Board Committee Charles Philipps Richard Hextall Charles Philipps Charles Philipps Amlin plc Board Richard Davey Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Risk & Solvency Committee Nigel Buchanan Richard Davey Sir Mark Wrightson Bt Marty Feinstein Board and Board committee attendance % 2012 2011 Amlin plc Board 100% Amlin plc Board 98% Audit Committee 100% Audit Committee 100% Nomination Committee 100% Nomination Committee 100% Remuneration Committee 95% Remuneration Committee 96% Risk & Solvency Committee 100% Risk & Solvency Committee 100% 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 100 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 100 Note: 1.
Attended all 7 meetings but was only appointed Chairman from 17 May 2012.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2012.
In addition to the scheduled meetings the Board met a further time, at short notice, to discuss a procedural matter.
58 Performance Strategic overview Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements 2012 Key items considered by the Board Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Adoption of Group policies Approval of Schedule of Matters Review of Board Committee Business performance Reserved and Group policies membership Business performance, including a Business performance including a Business performance Appointment of Non-Executive review of 2011 performance and review of Q1 performance and the including analysis of the Director with effect from 1 January renewals potential impact on the 2012 2012 half year results 1 January 2013 business plan Board & Committee evaluations Appointment of new Chairman Appointment of Non-Executive IT strategy for 2013 2015 review from 2011 Director Approval of external Board and Non-Executive Director fee review Review of the Internal Model Non-Executive Director fee review Committee evaluation for 2012 submission process process for 2013 Review of 2011 catastrophe losses Review of Group strategy Talent Management and results Catastrophe Risk Appetite for and review of 2012 risk appetite of Employee Survey 2013 and retrocessional reinsurance arrangements IT strategy 2013 Business plan Use of Internal Model Board composition and independence Nigel Buchanan, the Senior Independent Noncurrent insurance industry experience which, At the date of this report the Board of Amlin plc Executive Director, who retired as a partner of in view of the specialist and complex nature of the Board or plc Board comprised: the  LLP PwC in 2001, insurance written by Amlin, is highly beneficial Non-Executive Chairman, six independent receives a pension annuity from that firm that to the Company and that they did not, and Non-Executives, and four Executive Directors.
can vary if PwCs financial results do not meet a do not, affect, and should not be regarded Their biographical details are set out in this certain threshold.
The Board believes that Amlin by an objective observer as affecting, the report on pages 56 57.
During the year is not a material enough client to a firm of PwCs independence of the Directors concerned in Roger Taylor retired as Chairman with effect size for this to affect whether such threshold is fulfilling their roles as Non-Executive Directors from 17 May 2012 and Christine Bosse met.
Therefore, following PwCs appointment in of Amlin.
resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 6 July 2009 as auditors, the Board authorised the Regulated subsidiaries within a Group 2012.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page joined the Board potential conflict involved in Nigel Buchanan management framework on 1 September 2012 and Julie Chakraverty continuing to serve as Audit Committee During the year the organisational and joined the Board on 1 January 2013.
Chairman, allowing him to be involved in all governance arrangements of the Group have aspects of the Committees work, save that he continued to evolve.
At the forthcoming AGM all of the Directors will would step aside from involvement in any be offering themselves for re-election, save for Each of the Groups business platforms financial dispute or litigation between the Group Shonaid Jemmett-Page and Julie Chakraverty comes under its own regulated board: Amlin and PwC were it ever to arise.
Nigel Buchanan is who will be offering themselves for election, Underwriting Limited AUL for the Groups also a non-executive director of Butterfield Bank and Nigel Buchanan who will be retiring at the Lloyds operations for Amlin London and UK Ltd which purchased insurance from the end of the AGM.
Amlin UK : Amlin AG AAG, domiciled in Amlin Group on normal commercial terms.
Zurich, Switzerland for Amlin Re Europe and The Chairman was independent on his Within the last three years Marty Feinstein Amlin Bermuda : Amlin Europe NV operating appointment as a Non-Executive Director until 10 August 2012, and Sir Alan Collins in the Netherlands, Belgium and France in 2005: following his appointment as since 17 August 2012 were or are directors formerly ACI.
Amlin UK also utilises Amlin Chairman on 17 May 2012, he is not classified of overseas insurance companies which, like Insurance UK Limited AIUK, a UK licensed as independent.
The other Non-Executive many insurers around the world, either insurance company.
Directors, who have tenure of between a few purchase or have the opportunity to purchase months and eight years, have been determined In parallel with the corporate structure, there reinsurance from the Amlin Group on normal by the Board as being independent in character are management accountabilities of particular commercial terms.
The transactions detailed and judgement with no relationships or functions, for example finance, operations and above are, or were, not material either to Amlin circumstances which are likely to affect, or could risk management, which help embed Group or, the Directors believe, to the other company appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
standards and seek to ensure that there is good and in all cases the relationship is either two-way communication between functional In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, independent of, or was independent of, their management at the corporate centre and each and as permitted by the Companys Articles of Amlin directorships.
The Board remains local entity.
Association, the Board has authorised a number robustly of the view that such inter Company of potential conflicts of interest regarding the transactions are an inevitable consequence of independent Directors.
engaging Non-Executive Directors with relevant Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 59 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 59 Corporate governance report continued Separate entity management with a a Management Board whose members usually reports to the plc Audit Committee as well as strong Group governance input attend Supervisory Board meetings, presently to their respective boards.
Each regulated subsidiary has its own executive made up of seven AE Executives.
The Risk & Solvency Committee is responsible management separate from that of the Group, Key indicator reports on each business unit for reviewing risk and making recommendations with Group Executives sitting as Non-Executives are made to the plc Board, in addition to the to the Board on risk management, risk appetite, on subsidiary boards along with the relevant consolidated Group level reporting, enabling solvency, and economic and regulatory capital business executive management either on the the Board to concentrate on its key strategic matters.
Both Group and major subsidiaries have board or on a management board.
This allows and control roles.
Presentations are also made executive risk committees which provide reports the Company to have sufficient Group influence to the Board periodically by each business unit.
and updates directly, or via the Group Chief Risk and control within this delegated structure.
Officer, to the Risk & Solvency Committee.
Board committee structures The AUL Board currently consists of a Group As the Board has overall responsibility to The Nomination Committee reviews succession Non-Executive Chairman, a further independent shareholders and other stakeholders for the planning for key roles within the Group, Non-Executive Director, two Group Executives Groups operations, it is necessary not only for it reporting the conclusions of its reviews to the and its own business executive team including to direct the overall strategy, values and standards Board and, where appropriate, to relevant Managing Director, Finance Director, Chief Risk for the Group but also for its Board Committees subsidiary boards.
Officer and Amlin UK and Amlin London to be able to effectively oversee the aspects of the Underwriting directors.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible whole Group relevant to their responsibilities.
As for proposing the Groups remuneration policy The AAG board has five Executive Directors with Board governance, the distinction between to the Board and for setting senior Executive two from Amlin Zurich, two from Amlin Group and subsidiary responsibilities is reflected remuneration.
It reports to the Board the Bermuda and the Group Chief Risk Officer in committee structures.
conclusions of its reviews and makes and three Non-Executive Directors, being the The Audit Committee leads the process of recommendations on matters within the control Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance & review and makes recommendations to the of regulated subsidiaries to such subsidiaries Operations Director and one independent Board regarding: external auditors, financial boards and or remuneration committees.
reporting, internal control, internal audit, and This committee structure is illustrated in the AE has a two tier board structure comprising a certain regulatory and compliance matters.
Supervisory Board made up of two independent process is designed to ensure that significant Non-Executive Directors and the Group Chief risks in these areas are identified, evaluated, Each Committee is supported by the Company Executive, the Group Finance & Operations managed and controlled.
AUL and AE each Secretary, Mark Stevens, or a member of Director and the Group Chief Risk Officer and have their own Audit Committees, which make his team.
Board memberships Amlin plc Board 7 plc NEDs 4 plc Execs Amlin AG Amlin Underwriting Ltd Amlin Europe NV AAG AUL AE 1 Independent NED 1 plc NED AE Supervisory Board 2 plc Execs 1 Independent NED 2 Independent NED 2 Amlin Re Europe Execs 2 plc Execs 2 plc Execs 2 Amlin Bermuda Execs 2 Group Execs 1 Group Exec 1 Group Exec 5 AUL Execs AE Management Board 7 AE Execs Boards Management Board 60 60
