Corporate Governance Report In considering Non-executive Director independence, the Board has In May 2010 the FRC published a new edition taken into consideration the guidance provided by the 2010 Code.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board considers Michael Benson, Nick Land, Jonathan Asquith, Melda Donnelly and Simon Fraser to be independent.
Nick Land the 2010 Code which applies to financial is the Senior Independent Director.
years beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
During the year under review the Group complied with the 2010 Code requirement that at least half of the Board consist The Company has been in compliance of independent Directors excluding the Chairman.
with the predecessor Combined Code since Biographical details of the Directors are given on page 30.
Admission to listing on the London Stock The Board met six times during the year to review financial Exchange on 17 October 2006, except where performance and strategy and to follow the formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
Comprehensive Board papers, the Directors consider that in particular comprising an agenda and formal reports and briefing papers, limited circumstances, departure may be are sent to Directors in advance of each meeting.
Throughout their period in office, Directors are continually updated by means of written justified and explained.
and verbal reports from senior executives and external advisors on the Groups business, and the competitive and regulatory environments No departures from the 2010 Code occurred in which it operates, as well as on legal, corporate governance, during the year under review.
corporate social responsibility and other relevant matters.
In addition to its formal business, the Board received a number This report describes the Companys of briefings and presentations from executive management during corporate governance arrangements, the year covering a wide range of topics across the range of the Groups business.
All Directors have access to independent explaining how it has applied the principles professional advice, if required, at the Companys expense as well as of the Combined Code.
to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
New Directors appointed to the Board will receive advice as to the legal and Michael Benson other duties and obligations arising from the role of a director Chairman of a UK listed company within a full, formal and tailored induction programme.
The Company Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman, is responsible for maintaining an adequate continuing Directors education programme, reminding the Directors of their duties and The Board of Directors comprises two Executive Directors and five obligations on a regular basis, ensuring good information flows Non-executive Directors.
The two Executive Directors are Mark between the Board, its committees and management and assisting Coombs, the Chief Executive Officer, and Graeme Dell, the Group with Directors continuing professional development needs.
The Non-executive Directors are Michael Benson, The Companys Nominations Committee considers the appointment Chairman: Nick Land, Senior Independent Director: Jonathan Asquith, and replacement of Directors subject to the rules set out in the Melda Donnelly and Simon Fraser.
With the exception of Simon Fraser Articles, a summary of which is set out below.
who joined the Board on 10 February 2012 all Directors served throughout the year.
Under the Articles, the minimum number of Directors shall be two and the maximum shall be nine.
Directors may be appointed by the The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed decision and approval, which include, but are not limited to: by the Board must offer himself for election at the next Annual the Groups long-term commercial objectives and strategy: General Meeting of the Company following his appointment but he is not taken into account in determining the Directors or the major acquisitions, disposals and investments: number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
the Groups annual and interim reports and financial statements: The Directors to retire by rotation must be those who held office at the time of the two preceding Annual General Meetings and did not interim dividend and recommendation of final dividend: retire at either of them or if they have held office with the Company annual budgets and forecast updates: for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the Annual General Meeting.
The office of Director shall be vacated in significant capital expenditure: and other circumstances, including where i that Director resigns or is the effectiveness of internal controls.
asked to resign: ii they are or have been suffering from mental ill health: iii they are absent without permission of the Board from The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, meetings of the Board for six consecutive months: iv they become clearly defined and have been approved by the Board.
The Chairman bankrupt or compound with their creditors generally: or v they are is responsible for the effective conduct of the Board, while the Chief prohibited by law from being a Director.
Notwithstanding these Executive Officer is responsible for execution of strategy and for the provisions the Board has adopted provision B.
7.1 of the 2010 Code day-to-day management of the Group.
and therefore all Directors excluding Jonathan Asquith who is to stand down from the Board will retire and seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 31 October 2012.
40 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Powers of the Directors Board committees Subject to the Companys Articles, the Companies Acts and any The Board has appointed Audit and Risk, Remuneration and directions given by the Company by special resolution, the business Nominations Committees to assist in the execution of its duties.
of the Company is managed by the Board, who may exercise all All of these committees operate within written terms of reference, powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the which are reviewed annually.
In order to strengthen and enhance the business of the Company or not.
Audit Committees oversight on risk matters the terms of reference and agenda for the committee were revised from September 2011 Annual performance evaluation and the committee was changed to the Audit and Risk Committee in The 2010 Code recommends that the Board should undertake a order to reflect this role.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration formal annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committee have also been revised to give due regard to the provisions committees and individual Directors and that an externally facilitated and recommendations of the FSAs Remuneration Code.
evaluation should be undertaken at least once every three years.
During the year, the Board undertook an externally facilitated The chairman of each committee reports regularly to the Board.
evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and Each of the committees is authorised, at the Companys expense, to individual Directors led by an independent consultant experienced obtain external legal or other professional advice to assist in carrying in board evaluation.
The external facilitator had no other connection out its duties.
Only the members of each committee are entitled to with the Company.
Meetings were held between each Director and attend its meetings but others, such as senior management and the independent external facilitator in which issues and developments external advisors, may be invited to attend as appropriate.
over the year were discussed and performance was considered by reference to the objectives of the Board and its committees.
The issues Current membership of the committees is shown in the relevant raised during this process were discussed by the Board together.
The composition of these committees is reviewed During the year, the Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior annually, taking into consideration the recommendations of the Independent Non-executive Director, evaluated the performance of Nominations Committee.
the Chairman and gave feedback on his performance as Chairman Audit and Risk Committee which was also reflected in the externally facilitated evaluation.
The During the year under review the Audit and Risk Committee Board believes that, following the completion of the independently comprised the following Non-executive Directors and was fully facilitated performance evaluation, the performance of the Directors compliant with the 2010 Code: continues to be effective and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Nick Land Chairman Melda Donnelly Board and committee attendance Jonathan Asquith The table below sets out the number of pre-scheduled meetings The Board is satisfied that for the year under review and thereafter of the Board and its committees and individual attendance by Nick Land, Jonathan Asquith and Melda Donnelly had and have the Directors.
recent and relevant commercial and financial knowledge and Board and committee attendance experience to satisfy the provisions of the 2010 Code.
Nick Land and Melda Donnelly are Chartered Accountants and Jonathan Asquith Audit has previously served as Chief Financial Officer of Schroders plc and Nominations and Risk Remuneration Deutsche Morgan Grenfell.
Board Committee Committee Committee Total number of A report on the activities of the Audit and Risk Committee is set out scheduled meetings below.
The terms of reference for the committee take into account between 1 July 2011 the requirements of the 2010 Code and are available for inspection and 30 June 2012 6 2 4 4 at the registered office and at the Annual General Meeting and can Michael Benson 100% 100% 100% also be found on the Company website at www.
1 Mark Coombs 100% The terms of reference for the Audit and Risk Committee include: 1 Graeme Dell 100% monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Nick Land 100% 100% 100% 100% Company, any formal announcements relating to the Companys Jonathan Asquith 100% 100% 100% 100% financial performance and any significant financial issues and judgements contained in them: Melda Donnelly 100% 100% 2 Simon Fraser 100% reviewing the Groups draft annual financial statements and interim results statement prior to discussion and approval by the Board and 1.
Members of executive management are invited to attend Board Committee meetings as required reviewing the external auditors detailed reports thereon: but do not attend as members of those Committees.
Simon Fraser joined the Board on 10 February 2012 and has attended all Board meetings since reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups that date.
financial statements, receiving and reviewing confirmations of auditor independence and approving the terms of engagement Any Directors who are not members of Board Committees are also and proposed fees for the audit: invited to attend meetings of such Committees as necessary.
making recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be put to shareholders to approve the re-appointment of the external auditors: reviewing the level and amount of external auditor non-audit services: reviewing the Groups internal control and risk management systems, reporting to the Board on the results of this review and receiving updates on key risks and controls: Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41 Corporate Governance Report continued overseeing and challenging the day-to-day risk management ensuring that a significant proportion of Executive Directors and oversight arrangements of the executive and the design remuneration is structured so as to link rewards to corporate and and execution of stress and scenario testing: individual performance and that performance conditions are stretching and designed to promote the long-term success of the overseeing and challenging due diligence on risk issues relating Company: and to material transactions and strategic proposals that are subject to approval by the Board: ensuring that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is considering and approving the remit of the risk management not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
function and ensuring that it has adequate independence: and Details of the activities of the Remuneration Committee are set out reviewing the Audit and Risk Committees terms of reference, in the remuneration report on pages 46 to 53. carrying out an annual performance evaluation exercise and noting the satisfactory operation of the Committee.
The number of Remuneration Committee meetings and their attendance by the Directors are set out in the table on page 41.
The Audit and Risk Committee has requested and received reports In addition, and in accordance with the terms of reference, the from management to enable it to fulfil its duties under its terms members of the Remuneration Committee were also consulted of reference.
on a range of issues during the year, including specific matters The Audit and Risk Committee also has responsibility for reviewing related to recruitment.
the Companys arrangements on whistle-blowing, ensuring that Nominations Committee appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to be able to The Nominations Committee comprises three Non-executive Directors, raise, in confidence, matters of possible impropriety, with suitable Michael Benson as Chairman, Nick Land and Jonathan Asquith.
Directors served on the Nominations Committee throughout the year.
The Audit and Risk Committee has the authority to seek any The terms of reference for the Committee take into account the information it requires to perform its duties from any employee requirements of the 2010 Code and are available for inspection of the Company and to obtain outside legal or other independent at the registered office and at the Annual General Meeting and can professional advice as appropriate.
also be found on the Company website at www.
The number of Audit and Risk Committee meetings and their The terms of reference for the Nominations Committee include: attendance by the Directors are set out in the table on page 41.
Representatives of KPMG Audit Plc, the Group Finance Director, reviewing the structure, size and composition including the skills, Group Head of Risk and representatives of the internal auditors, knowledge and experience of the Board and its committees: Ernst & Young, attend each meeting as a matter of practice and reviewing annually the time required from each Non-executive presentations are made by the executive management as required.
Director, using performance evaluation to assess whether the Remuneration Committee Non-executive Director is giving sufficient commitment to the role: The Group complied during the year with the 2010 Code requirement giving full consideration to succession planning in the course of its that the Remuneration Committee should consist of at least three work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing independent Non-executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee the Company and what skills and expertise are needed on the was chaired throughout the financial year by Jonathan Asquith with Board in the future: and Michael Benson and Nick Land as members, all of whom served on the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
Jonathan Asquith ensuring that on appointment to the Board, Non-executive Directors has indicated his wish not to stand for re-election at the Annual receive a formal letter of appointment setting out clearly what is General Meeting on 31 October 2012 and Nick Land has assumed expected of them in terms of time commitment, committee service the role of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee at the date and involvement outside Board meetings.
During the year the activities of the Nominations Committee A report on the activities of the Remuneration Committee is included have included reviewing the requirements for potential independent in the remuneration report on pages 46 to 53.
The terms of reference non-executive candidates for appointment to the Board, proposals for for the Remuneration Committee take into account the requirements re-election of Directors at the Annual General Meeting, and reviewing of the 2010 Code and are available for inspection at the registered its terms of reference.
The number of Nominations Committee office, at the Annual General Meeting and can also be found on the meetings and their attendance by the Directors are set out in the Company website at www.
The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee include: reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy: reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders: ensuring that members of the executive management of the Company are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and that remuneration incentives are compatible with the Companys risk policies and systems: making recommendations to the Board as to the Companys framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary and to determine their total individual remuneration packages including bonuses, incentive payments and share options or other share awards: 42 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Relations with shareholders The Groups Risk and Compliance Committee RCC, which meets The Company places great importance on communication with monthly, is responsible for maintaining a sound risk management its investors and aims to keep shareholders informed by means and internal control environment and for assessing the impact of the of regular communication with institutional shareholders, analysts Groups ongoing activities on its regulatory and operational exposures.
and the financial press throughout the year.
The RCC is chaired by the Head of Risk Management and Control the other members are the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Annual and interim reports and trading updates are widely Director, the Head of IT, Operations and Performance Management, distributed to other parties who may have an interest in the Groups the Group Head of Compliance, the Head of Information Technology, performance.
These documents are also made available on the the Head of Legal and Transaction Management and the Head of Companys website where formal regulatory information service Finance.
Responsibility for risk identification is shared amongst these announcements are also posted.
The Chief Executive Officer and senior management personnel, with each such individual being Group Finance Director make regular reports to the Board on investor responsible for day-to-day control of risk in their business area.
relations and on specific discussions with major shareholders and the Board receives copies of all research published on the Company.
There are established policies and procedures to enable the Board, through its regular meetings, to monitor the effectiveness of the risk The 2012 Annual General Meeting will be attended by all Directors, and management and internal control systems, which cover all significant the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk, Nominations and Remuneration identified internal and external strategic, operational, financial, Committees will be available to answer questions.
Private investors are compliance and other risks, including the Groups ability to comply encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting.
with all applicable laws, regulations and clients requirements.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they The Board has continued to receive regular financial and other have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, management information related to the control of expenditure against Chief Executive Officer or Group Finance Director has failed to resolve budget and the making of investments, and for monitoring the or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Company continues Groups business and its performance, and regular compliance and to offer major shareholders the opportunity to meet any or all of the risk reports.
Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and any new Directors.
Through the Audit and Risk Committee, the Board has conducted The Group will announce via a regulatory information service the an annual review and assessment of the effectiveness of the risk number of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the Annual General management and internal control systems, and has identified no Meeting and any other general meetings.
significant failings or weaknesses during this review.
In conducting this review, the Board has considered the periodic reports received Internal control and risk management throughout the year on compliance and risk matters, including reports In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance provided by the internal audit function, and the annual report on risk Code 2010, the Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups risk management and internal control processes from the RCC.
The Board management and internal control systems and for reviewing their is satisfied that appropriate planned actions continue to be effective in effectiveness.
Such systems and their review are designed to manage improving controls as the Group develops, and its overall assessment rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, of the control framework continues to be satisfactory.
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The main features of the Groups risk management and internal control systems are as follows: Within the Groups over-arching corporate governance framework, through which the Board aims to maintain full and effective control Policies over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance core values and policies together comprising the Groups high level issues, an internal control framework has been established, against principles and controls, with which all staff are expected to comply: which the Company is able to assess the effectiveness of its risk manuals of policies and procedures, applicable to all business units, management and internal control systems.
The Groups system with procedures for reporting weaknesses and for monitoring of internal control is embedded within its routine operations, corrective action: and a strong control culture is combined with clear management responsibility and accountabilities for individual control.
The internal a code of business conduct, with procedures for reporting control framework provides an ongoing process for identifying, compliance therewith: and evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks, and has been a defined operational framework and organisational structure with in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of appropriate delegation of authority with accountability that has the annual report and accounts.
The process is regularly reviewed by regard to acceptable levels of risk.
the Board, and accords with the guidance in the document Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, Processes October 2005 Turnbull Guidance published by the Financial a planning framework is maintained, which incorporates a Board Reporting Council.
approved strategic plan, with objectives for each business unit: The Executive Directors oversee the key risks and controls and the risk regular business reviews of the Company and its subsidiaries management process on a day to day basis, and have put in place an are performed by senior management, which consider the organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and ongoing effects of change and the short, medium and long-term delegation of authority.
operational requirements: quarterly senior management systems and controls reviews are undertaken by the Group Finance Director with the Group Head of Compliance, and Group Head of Risk Management and Control in which the Chief Executive Officer participates at least annually.
These reviews include evaluation of the potential impact and likelihood of identified risks and possible new risk areas: Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43 Corporate Governance Report continued a matrix of top risks identifies key business, operational, financial Verification and compliance risks, and considers the likelihood of those risks The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on crystallising and the resultant impact.
The inherent risk within the annual financial statements, the half year review and also each business activity has been identified, with the adequacy and independently and objectively review the approach of management mitigating effect of existing processes being assessed to determine to reporting operating results and financial condition: a current residual risk level for each such activity.
On the basis that the Board, through the Audit and Risk Committee, receives further mitigants may be employed over time, a target residual risk half-yearly updates from the Groups external auditors which for each activity after one to two years has been defined: include any control matters that have come to their attention: key risk indicator KRI statistics are reported to and analysed annual control reports are reviewed independently by the Groups by the RCC.
The KRIs indicate trends in the Groups risk profile, external auditors pursuant to the International Standards on assist in the reduction of errors and potential financial losses and Assurance Engagements 3402 ISAE 3402 : seek to prevent exposure by proactively dealing with a potential risk situation before an event actually occurs: the internal audit function undertakes a programme of reviews of systems, processes and procedures as determined by the there are well-defined procedures governing the appraisal and Board, reporting the results together with their advice and approval of corporate investments, including seeding of funds and recommendations, and assisting in the presentation of their findings purchase of own shares, with detailed investment and divestment to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The internal audit function is approval procedures, incorporating appropriate levels of authority currently provided under an outsourcing arrangement by Ernst & and regular post-investment reviews: Young this arrangement will be subject to periodic review.
the Group has secure information and communication systems capable of capturing relevant and up to date information by By order of the Board relevant personnel, with oversight and direction provided by the Groups IT Steering Group, which implements the IT strategy, Michael Perman establishing and overseeing the operation of all IT projects: Company Secretary 10 September 2012 strong financial controls are maintained to ensure accurate accounting for transactions, appropriate authorisation limits to contain exposures, and reliability of data processing and integrity of information generated: an in-depth annual budget is reviewed and approved by the Board and is regularly subject to update through a formal re-forecasting process: oversight and management of the Groups foreign currency cash flows and balance sheet exposures are the responsibility of the FX Management Committee which determines the appropriate level of hedging required and appropriate accounting treatment: Board members receive monthly management accounts and other relevant reports, which highlight actual financial performance against budget forecast and prior year period: detailed investment reports are prepared and discussed at each of the sub-committee meetings of the Groups investment committee, which take place weekly or monthly depending on investment theme, with follow up actions agreed and implemented within a strict operational framework: oversight of the valuation methodologies used for clients fund investments that cannot be readily externally priced is the responsibility of the Groups Pricing Methodology and Valuation Committee PMVC which meets monthly to review the current valuation methodology for each of these investments and to propose an updated valuation methodology where appropriate: the Group Compliance function, whose responsibility is to ensure that the Group at all times meets its regulatory obligations, and to integrate regulatory compliance procedures and best practices within the Group, undertakes an ongoing compliance monitoring programme covering all the relevant areas of the Groups operations, to seek to identify any breach of compliance with applicable financial services regulation, which includes real-time investment restrictions monitoring of client mandate requirements.
Results of the compliance monitoring programme are reported to the RCC in support of the overall risk management framework: and the development of new products is an important part of the Groups business in responding to clients needs and changes in the financial markets and is the responsibility of the New Products Committee which approves new product launches.
44 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
