Report of the Audit and Risk Committee The composition and summary terms of reference of the Audit From time to time during the year the Non-executives met with and Risk Committee are set out on pages 41 and 42. the external and internal auditors without the Executive Directors being present so as to provide a forum to raise any matters of concern The principal activities of the Audit and Risk Committee through in confidence.
The Committee also received a report from the the year were as follows: independent KPMG team responsible for the audits of the Ashmore publicly traded funds.
Financial statements The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the 2012 Annual Report, Internal controls and risk management Interim Results, Preliminary Results and reports from the external In September 2011 the terms of reference of the Committee auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, on the outcome of their reviews and were updated to better reflect its role and responsibilities for Risk audits in 2012. related matters.
At the same time its name was changed to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Head of Risk attends all meetings of the External auditors Committee and provides regular reports and updates on various topics The external auditors attend all meetings of the Committee.
During including operational risk, market risk, the valuation methodology for the year the Committee reviewed the scope and findings of the hard to price assets, and counterparty risk.
external auditors work in connection with the interim review and the annual audit.
The Committee received a report on, and conducted a review and evaluation of, the system of internal controls and risk management The Committee also received a comprehensive presentation from operated within the Company pursuant to the Turnbull Guidance the auditors demonstrating to its satisfaction how their independence prior to full review by the Board.
and objectivity is maintained when providing non-audit services.
The Committee has agreed the types of permitted and non-permitted Internal audit non-audit services and those which require explicit prior approval.
All Ernst & Young have acted as internal auditors since 1 July 2009 contracts for non-audit services in excess of 25,000 must be notified reporting directly to the Committee.
The Committee has received to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and approved reports on its findings and programme of reviews at each of its by him.
meetings during the course of the year.
During the year the value of non-audit services provided by KPMG Audit and Risk Committee effectiveness amounted to 0.5 million 2011: 0.4 million.
Whilst non-audit During the year an independently facilitated review of the services as a proportion of audit services amount to approximately effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and the Directors was 125 per cent, the overall quantum of non-audit services is not conducted in accordance with provision B.
considered to be material given that Ashmore operates within a highly The review concluded that the Committee and its members were regulated market and that a significant proportion of the non-audit working effectively.
services provided relate to the following matters: reporting on our half year financial statements: Nick Land Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee providing assurance reports to the FSA as the regulator of Ashmore 10 September 2012 Investment Management Limited : the provision of tax compliance services: acting as reporting accountant in appropriate circumstances provided there is no element of valuation work involved: and reporting on internal controls as required under ISAE 3402 formerly SAS 70 pursuant to investment management industry standards.
The Committee considers the assurance provided by the Group auditors on these items to be strictly necessary in the interests of the business and that, by their nature, these services could not easily be provided by another professional auditing firm.
The provision of tax advisory services, due diligence transaction services and litigation services may be permitted with the Committees prior approval.
The provision of internal audit services, valuation work and any other activity that may give rise to any possibility of self-review are not permitted under any circumstance.
During the year there were no circumstances where KPMG Audit plc was engaged to provide services which might have led to a conflict of interests.
The Committee is satisfied that the external auditors remain independent and has recommended to the Board that a resolution be put to shareholders for the re-appointment of the auditors, and their remuneration and terms of engagement, at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45
