80 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Board of directors improving the Groups financial strength, resilience and performance against the backdrop of a challenging macroeconomic and regulatory environment.
He has brought his significant financial acumen and analytical skills to bear in driving forward the change agenda and John McFarlane Mark Wilson in successfully delivering the Groups Chairman Group chief executive officer strategic priorities.
Born June 1947 Born August 1966 Appointed to the Board in September Appointed to the Board as Group CEO 2011 and became executive chairman in designate in December 2012 and became July 2012 and non-executive chairman Group CEO on 1 January 2013.
Formerly following the appointment of Mark Wilson chief executive officer and president of AIA as Group CEO on 1 January 2013.
Group insurance, and former chief Currently a non-executive director of executive of AXA China and AXA South Westfield Holdings Ltd retail mall East Asia insurance.
He also previously held developer and operator and Old Oak a number of senior management positions Trevor Matthews Holdings Ltd financial holding company.
at National Mutual in New Zealand Executive director and chairman, Former chief executive officer of Australia insurance.
Developed Markets and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd He has over 25 years of operational Born March 1952 banking, executive director of Standard and executive experience in the insurance Appointed to the Board in December 2011 as chief executive, Aviva UK.
In April 2012, Chartered plc banking, head of Citicorp industry across life assurance, general and Citibank UK and Ireland, and insurance and asset management, in both he became chairman of the UK & Ireland board and was appointed executive managing director of Citicorp Investment mature and growth markets.
Former director and extensive experience of leading major director and chairman, Developed Markets.
Currently chairman of the Financial Skills council member of the London Stock international insurance companies and has Exchange financial services and former an excellent track record as a focused and Partnership and a commissioner for the UK Commission for Employment and Skills.
non-executive director of the Royal Bank inspirational business leader.
At AIA Group of Scotland Group plc banking, National and AXA, he successfully developed and Previously chief executive officer and vice chairman of Friends Life life assurance Westminster Bank plc banking, Capital implemented short, medium and longRadio plc media, The Securities term strategies, delivered robust change and chief executive officer of Friends Provident plc life assurance.
Former chief Association UK securities regulator, the programmes and developed and Auditing Practices Board auditing transformed business performance and executive of Standard Life Assurance Company Ltd life assurance, president regulator and the Business Council of cultures in challenging market conditions.
Former chairman of the and chief executive officer of Manulife Japan life assurance and executive vice Australian Bankers Association and president of the International Monetary president, Canadian operations and chairman, Manulife Bank, Toronto Conference.
He is chairman of the Board and the Nomination Committee.
He has also held senior management positions at National substantial global listed company experience and an excellent track record Australia Bank banking and Legal & General Assurance Holdings Australia Ltd spanning over 30 years in the UK and Patrick Regan international financial services industry.
Chief financial officer He has over 40 years of experience in As executive chairman, he was Born March 1966 instrumental in driving forward the the financial services industry with a track Appointed to the Board in February 2010 record of achievement in the insurance Companys strategic plan to narrow the as chief financial officer and, since April focus of the Groups business portfolio, sector globally.
He has brought to the 2012, has assumed responsibility for Aviva Board an in-depth operational and build financial strength and improve USA.
He is chairman of Aviva Investors and financial performance.
He successfully functional knowledge of insurance, both is currently a member of the supervisory in the UK and overseas.
He will be managed the implementation of a culture board of Delta Lloyd N. V. and values change programme, cutting stepping down from the Board prior Formerly group chief financial officer to the 2013 AGM.
bureaucracy and delayering the and chief operating officer of Willis Group organisation.
He has extensive experience Holdings Ltd insurance broking, group in banking, including investment, financial controller for RSA Insurance corporate and retail banking, and in Group plc insurance and finance and general management, insurance, strategy, claims director, UK general insurance for risk and cultural change.
His wide-ranging AXA Insurance insurance.
He also held a board and executive experience provides number of senior management positions at him with the requisite skills for his GE Capital financial services and chairmanship of the Company and specialised in corporate finance and Glyn Barker the Board.
investigations at Grant Thornton Independent non-executive director professional services.
Born September 1953 Appointed to the Board in February 2012.
He has extensive global experience in various executive functions within the Currently chairman of Irwin Mitchell law firm, a non-executive director of insurance industry.
He also has an excellent track record of driving change programmes Transocean Ltd offshore drilling and The Berkeley Group Holdings plc construction and corporate actions to deliver improved profitability.
He has been instrumental in and a trustee of the English National Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 81 Aviva plc Board of directors continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Opera.
Formerly vice-chairman UK of  LLP with responsibility for leading the executive team for the Europe, Middle East, Africa and India region and was previously UK managing partner, UK head of assurance and a member of the UK management Michael Hawker AM Gay Huey Evans board of  LLP.
He Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Born October 1959 Born July 1954 Risk Committees.
Appointed to the Board in January 2010.
Appointed to the Board in October 2011.
He has extensive experience as a Currently a non-executive director of Currently a non-executive director of the business leader and a trusted adviser to Macquarie Group Ltd banking and London Stock Exchange Group plc FTSE 100 companies and their boards on Macquarie Bank Ltd banking, financial services, Clariden Leu Europe a wide variety of corporate and finance Washington H Soul Pattinson Pty Ltd Ltd financial services, Bank Itau BBA issues.
He brings to the Board a deep investment, International Rugby International Limited banking and the understanding of accounting and Development Ltd rugby, and IRFB Services Financial Reporting Council.
Member of regulatory issues together with in-depth Ireland Ltd rugby.
He is chairman and the management board and of the panel transactional and financial services non-executive director of the Australian of finance experts of the Panel of experience.
He will become chairman of Rugby Union and SANZAR Pty Limited Recognised International Market Experts in the Audit Committee on 8 May 2013. rugby union and is a non-executive Finance PRIME Finance, and a trustee of director trustee of the George Institute for Wellbeing of Women UK charity and Global Health UK.
He is a member of the The Wigmore Hall Trust charity.
Formerly advisory council at General Enterprise chair of the International Swaps and Management Services International Ltd Derivatives Association, Inc. ISDA private equity, and council member of the financial trade association, vice-chairman, International Rugby Board.
Formerly chief investment banking & investment executive and managing director of management at Barclays Capital banking Insurance Australia Group insurance, and she held senior management positions Richard Karl Goeltz group chief executive of business and at Citi Alternative Investments EMEA Senior independent non-executive director consumer banking at Westpac Banking banking, the Financial Services Authority Born September 1942 Corporation banking and chairman of the UK regulator and Bankers Trust Company Appointed to the Board in May 2004 and Insurance Council of Australia.
She is chairman of the became senior independent non-executive fellow of the Financial Services Institute of Corporate Responsibility Committee and a director in January 2009.
Currently a nonAustralasia and a fellow of the Australian member of the Nomination and executive director of the New Germany Institute of Company Directors.
Fund investment trust, the Central Europe chairman of the Risk Committee and a She has over 30 years of experience and Russia Fund investment trust and the member of the Audit, Nomination and within the financial services industry, European Equity Fund investment trust, Remuneration Committees.
He will step having held key positions in government and is also a member of the Council and down as a member of the Remuneration and in a number of global financial and Court of Governors of the London School Committee on 8 May 2013. banking institutions.
In addition to the of Economics and Political Science.
Former He has a wealth of knowledge and financial expertise she brings to the Board, non-executive director of the Warnaco experience gained over a long career in the her experience at the Financial Services Group Inc. clothing, vice-chairman and banking and insurance industries, in both Authority continues to provide an insight chief financial officer of American Express executive and non-executive roles in into the priorities and focus of the Groups Company financial services and director Europe, Asia and Australia.
He has been a lead regulator.
and chief financial officer of NatWest highly effective chairman of the Risk Group plc banking.
Former non-executive Committee during a period of significant director of Delta Air Lines, Inc. transport volatility in the external economic and Federal Home Loan Mortgage environment.
Corporation Freddie Mac financial services and a former member of the Accounting Standards Board UK.
He has a strong financial background and has over 20 years experience in the financial services industry.
He has held a broad range of executive and nonexecutive positions in major global corporations.
His experience of audit and governance committees has been invaluable in providing effective oversight as a member of the Companys Audit Committee.
He is currently a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees and will retire from the Board, as senior independent non-executive director, and from the Audit and Nomination Committees after nine years of service to the Board on 8 May 2013.
82 Aviva plc Board of directors continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Sir Adrian Montague CBE Russell Walls Scott Wheway Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Born February 1948 Born February 1944 Born August 1966 Appointed to the Board in January 2013.
Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
Appointed to the Board in December Currently chairman of 3i Group plc private Currently non-executive director of Biocon 2007.
Former chief executive officer of equity and Anglian Water Group Ltd Ltd biopharmaceuticals, Signet Jewelers Best Buy Europe retail services, director of utilities, deputy-chairman and senior Ltd retail, Syngene Ltd contract research The Boots Company plc now known as independent director of UK Green pharmaceuticals, and Mytrah Energy Ltd The Boots Company Ltd pharmacy and Investment Bank plc investment bank and wind power producer.
Former group managing director and retail director of a non-executive director of Skanska AB finance director of BAA plc transport, Boots the Chemist at Alliance Boots plc, construction.
Formerly chairman of Wellcome plc pharmaceuticals and Coats and director of the British Retail Friends Provident plc life insurance, British Viyella plc textiles, treasurer and trustee Consortium.
He formerly held a number of Energy Group plc utilities, Michael Page of the British Red Cross charity and a senior executive positions at Tesco plc International plc recruitment, and Cross member of the Finance Commission of the retail services, including chief executive of London Rail Links Ltd Crossrail, and was International Federation of the Red Cross Tesco in Japan.
He is chairman of the formerly deputy-chairman of Network Rail charity.
Formerly senior independent Remuneration Committee and a member Ltd railway network authority and director and chairman of the audit of the Corporate Responsibility and Partnerships UK plc public private committee of Stagecoach Group plc Nomination Committees.
He was also previously chief transport and Hilton Group plc leisure He has a wealth of business experience executive of the Treasury Taskforce.
He is and a non-executive director of Delphic in the retail sector and his understanding a member of the Audit, Corporate Diagnostics Ltd medical, and Mersey of customer priorities has been greatly Responsibility and Nomination Docks and Harbour Company transport.
beneficial in driving the customer agenda Committees.
He will become senior He has a strong financial background and excellence in customer service within independent non-executive director on and a wealth of international experience the business.
He has chaired the 8 May 2013. across a range of sectors.
With his deep Remuneration Committee with vigour and Sir Adrian brings his significant financial acumen, analytical approach and has rebuilt the Groups standing with its experience of the financial services industry extensive audit experience over a long significant investors in relation to the and in government and regulatory circles financial career, he has been a robust Groups remuneration policy.
Following the to the Board.
Audit Committee chairman against a issues raised at the 2012 annual general backdrop of macro-economic instability meeting, he led an extensive consultation and changes to the audit environment.
exercise with the Companys major He is currently chairman of the Audit shareholders and a significant review Committee and a member of the of the Groups remuneration policies Nomination and Risk Committees and will and practices.
retire from the Board, as Audit Committee chairman and from the Nomination and Risk Committees after nine years of service Bob Stein to the Board on 8 May 2013.
Independent non-executive director Born February 1949 Appointed to the Board in January 2013.
Currently a non-executive director and vice-chair of the audit committee of Assurant, Inc US specialty insurance and is a trustee emeritus of the board of trustees of the Actuarial Foundation.
He spent most of his working life at Ernst & Young in the US, where he held a number of managing partner roles in the actuarial, insurance and financial services practices in the US and globally, culminating in being managing partner, global actuarial practice.
He is a member of the Nomination, Risk and Remuneration Committees.
He brings significant accounting and financial services experience to the Board.
