Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 95 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Nomination Committee report This Report provides details of the role of the Nomination Committee activities during 2012 Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
During 2012 the Committee was principally focused on two particular issues: identifying the successor for the group chief Committee role and responsibilities executive and the recruitment of new non-executive directors as part of the continual cycle to refresh the Board and maintain an The Board strongly believes that good governance and strong, appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience.
These responsible, balanced leadership by the Board are critical to issues are discussed in detail below.
The chart below shows how creating long-term shareholder value and business success.
the Committee allocated its time during 2012.
The Committee assists the Board by regularly reviewing the composition of the Board and conducting a rigorous and Nomination committee allocation of agenda time transparent process when recommending or renewing the appointment of directors to the Board.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: Board composition and succession planning 79% Evaluate and review the balance of skills, knowledge, and Independence and conflicts of interest 14% experience of the Board, taking into account the Companys Others including corporate governance 7% risk appetite and strategy: Monitor succession plans for the appointment of nonexecutive directors, the group chief executive and other executive directors to the Board: Identify and nominate suitable candidates for appointment to the Board, including chairmanship of the Board and its Committees, against a specification of the role and capabilities required for the appointment: Group chief executive officer search Assess the independence of each of the non-executive The Committee led the process for the recruitment of a new directors: group chief executive following the departure of Andrew Moss in Assess directors conflicts of interest as they arise: May 2012.
The Committee approved the search brief and Review the external interests and time commitments of the engaged Spencer Stuart to identify suitable candidates.
The brief directors to ensure that each has sufficient time to included finding candidates with strong insurance experience, a undertake his her duties to the Company: and track record of running large global organisations, and the skills Approve a report on the Committees activities for inclusion and leadership qualities to unite and motivate the Groups in the Companys Annual Report and Accounts.
employees and to embed a high-performance culture.
A shortlist of candidates were interviewed by the chairman, The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the senior independent director and two non-executive directors.
the Companys website at www.
com terms-of-reference The preferred candidates met with all non-executive directors and and are also available from the group company secretary.
the successful candidate met with the Financial Services Authority FSA.
The Remuneration Committee led on the development of Committee membership and attendance an appropriate remuneration package for the role and approved As at the date of this Report, the Committee comprises the the final package to be offered to the successful candidate.
Both chairman and all the Companys independent non-executive the Remuneration and Nomination Committees were mindful of directors.
Prior to leaving the Group, Andrew Moss was also shareholder views when considering the remuneration package a member of the Committee.
The table below shows the for the role.
Having considered all the skills, experience and Committee members during the year and their attendance personal attributes of the preferred candidates, the Committee at Committee meetings: recommended Mark Wilson be appointed to the role and to the Board.
The Board appointed Mark Wilson as a director with effect Membership and attendance from 1 December 2012 and as Group CEO from 1 January 2013.
Number of meetings 1 Committee member attended Percentage attendance He has extensive experience in leading major international 2 John McFarlane Chairman 6 100% insurance companies across life insurance, general insurance and 3 Lord Sharman 1 50% asset management.
Spencer Stuart does not have any other 4 Glyn Barker 4 100% 5 connection with the Company.
Mary Francis 3 75% Richard Karl Goeltz 6 100% 4 Euleen Goh 4 100% Non-executive director search 4 Michael Hawker 4 100% As part of the continual cycle to refresh the Board, the 4 Gay Huey Evans 4 100% 6 Committee led the process to recruit two new non-executive Andrew Moss 1 50% Russell Walls 6 100% directors to succeed Richard Goeltz and Russell Walls who will 4 Scott Wheway 4 100% both retire from the Board, having completed nine years of 1 This shows the percentage of meetings which the Committee member attended during the year whilst a member service, on 8 May 2013.
The Committee engaged The Zygos of the Committee.
A number of Committee members could not attend meetings called at short notice or where they had a conflict of interest.
Partnership to identify suitable candidates.
The Committee 2 Attended all meetings, became chairman of the Committee on 1 July 2012. prepared comprehensive candidate search briefs with an 3 Lord Sharman retired from the Board and as chairman of the Committee on 30 June 2012.
4 Appointed to the Committee on 1 July 2012. emphasis on finding a candidate who could become the next 5 Resigned on 3 October 2012. senior independent director and a candidate with strong life 6 Resigned on 8 May 2012.
The Committee notes that the UK Corporate Governance Code does not preclude the group chief executive from membership of the Committee.
Shortlisted candidates were interviewed by the chairman, the senior independent director and two nonThe Committee met on six occasions in 2012, of which three executive directors and, additionally, executive and non-executive were scheduled meetings and three were additional meetings directors met with the preferred candidates.
Following FSA called at short notice.
The group company secretary acts as the approval, the Board accepted the Committees recommendations secretary to the Committee.
Members of the Committee took no and appointed Sir Adrian Montague and Bob Stein as nonpart in any discussions concerning their own circumstances.
The executive directors on 14 and 28 January 2013 respectively.
chairman of the Committee reported to meetings of the Board on The Committee further recommended to the Board that the Committees work and the Board receives a copy of the Sir Adrian Montague be appointed as senior independent agenda and the minutes of each meeting of the Committee.
96 Aviva plc Nomination Committee report continued Annual report and accounts 2012 director prior to the 2013 AGM to succeed Richard Goeltz.
The Committee performance and effectiveness Committee believes that Sir Adrian has the requisite skills and The Board undertook an annual review of the Committees experience to be an effective senior independent director.
performance and effectiveness and the results of the review will The Committee has also recommended that Glyn Barker be be incorporated into the Committees processes and activities for appointed as chairman of the Audit Committee to succeed 2013.
Russell Walls prior to the 2013 AGM.
Glyn Barker was formerly vice-president, UK of PwC and has a deep understanding of Nomination Committee Report accounting and regulatory issues together with in-depth This Nomination Committee Report was reviewed and approved transactional and assurance experience.
In his role at PwC he did by the Board on 6 March 2013. not carry out external audit work for the Company and the Committee is satisfied that his former connection to PwC does not compromise the external auditors independence.
John McFarlane The Zygos Partnership has no other connection with Chairman, Nomination Committee the Company.
Diversity The Committee strongly believes that diversity throughout the Group and at Board and senior management level is a driver of business success.
Diversity brings a broader, more rounded perspective to decision making and risk management, making the Board and senior management more effective.
During the year, candidate searches were conducted and Board appointments were made, on merit, against the criteria identified by the Committee having regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
However, with the retirement of Euleen Goh and Mary Francis during the year to concentrate on other commitments the Board currently only has one female non-executive director, representing 10% of the Board.
In its last report the Committee stated that it intends to maintain a minimum of 25% female representation on the Board by the end of 2013.
The Company remains committed to having a diverse Board in terms of gender as well as diversity of experience, skills and knowledge, background and nationality.
Recruitment of additional non-executive directors is ongoing and the Committee is taking diversity into account in the selection process.
At the date of this Report, 29% 2011: 18% of Group Executive members and 21% 2011: 20% of senior executives in the Company were female.
It is the Companys intention to increase this number as it is recognised that a higher number of women in senior management will create a stronger talent pipeline and is better for business.
Other activities During the year the Committee recommended Committee composition changes to the Board and has been involved in the ongoing process to recruit a new chief executive officer for Aviva Investors and a new group HR director.
The Committee also reviewed the independence of each non-executive director, all directors conflicts of interest and the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board prior to recommending directors re-election at the AGM.
Following consideration of these issues the Committee recommended the election or re-election of each director standing for election or reelection at the 2013 AGM.
