Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 97 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Audit Committee report This Report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee The chairman, Group CEO, chief financial officer, chief audit and the work it has undertaken during the year.
officer and the external auditor normally attended Committee meetings.
Other members of senior management were also Committee role and responsibilities invited to attend as appropriate to present reports.
The Committee regularly held private sessions to discuss issues to be The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in raised with management in the main meeting, and met separately discharging its responsibilities for monitoring the integrity of the with senior management, with the chief audit officer without Groups financial statements, assessing the effectiveness of the management present and with the external auditor without Groups system of internal controls and monitoring the management present during the year.
The Committee chairman effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the internal and held regular meetings with management and the chief audit external auditors.
Whilst the Board as a whole has a duty to act officer, and with the external audit partner to ensure he was in the best interests of the Company, the Committee has a aware of issues that needed to be raised at the Committee.
The particular role, acting independently of management, to ensure Committee chairman reported to subsequent Board meetings on that the interests of shareholders are properly protected in the Committees work and the Board received copies of the relation to financial reporting and the effectiveness of the Groups agenda and minutes of each Committee meeting.
systems of financial internal controls.
The key responsibilities of In performing its duties, the Committee had access to the the Committee are to: services of the chief audit officer, the group company secretary, Review the significant issues and judgements of senior financial management and external professional advisers.
management, and the methodology and assumptions used in relation to the Groups financial statements and formal Committee expertise announcements on the Groups financial performance including the reserving position relating to the Groups life The Committee members have significant financial experience assurance and general insurance operations: and expertise.
Review the Groups going concern assumptions: Russell Walls, a Fellow Chartered Certified Accountant, is Assess the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal former group finance director of BAA plc, Wellcome plc and controls, including financial reporting, financial controls Coats Viyella plc.
Richard Goeltz is a former chief financial officer and the Internal Audit function: of American Express Company and NatWest Group plc and a Consider and review the performance of the chief audit former member of the Accounting Standards Board.
officer, and agree with management his effectiveness and Glyn Barker is a chartered accountant and has held a number his remuneration: of senior positions at PwC where, most recently, he was UK vice Consider and make recommendations to the Board on the chairman.
Michael Hawker, a Senior Fellow of the Financial appointment, reappointment, dismissal or resignation and Services Institute of Australasia, is a former chief executive officer remuneration of the external auditor: and and managing director of Insurance Australia Group.
Assess the independence and objectivity of the external The Board is satisfied that each of the current Committee auditor and approve and monitor the application of the members has recent and relevant financial experience and also external auditor business standard.
meets US requirements to be an audit committee financial expert.
Glyn Barker will succeed Russell Walls as Committee chairman In preparation for the new Code requirement that will apply on 8 May 2013.
As former vice-chairman of PwC, Glyn Barker has to Aviva during the 2013 reporting period, revised terms of a recent connection with the Groups current auditor.
However, reference for the Committee were adopted in January 2013. he did not perform any audit work and had no responsibility for The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found the audit business of PwC.
PwC has concluded that Glyn Barker on the Companys website at www.
com terms-of-reference was not in the chain of command for the audit engagement team and are also available from the group company secretary.
in the two years prior to his retirement, and has confirmed that he does not have any significant ongoing financial connection with Committee membership and attendance the firm with respect to his pension arrangements.
As he retired from PwC before PwC was appointed as the Companys auditor The Committee comprises independent non-executive directors and as he complies with the rules of the US Securities and only.
The table below shows the Committee members during the Exchange Commission and the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical year and their attendance at Committee meetings: Standards on auditor independence the Committee is satisfied that PwC is independent of the Company.
Membership and attendance Number of meetings 1 Committee member attended Percentage attendance Committee activities during 2012 Russell Walls Chairman 13 100% The work of the Committee followed an agreed annual work plan 2 Glyn Barker 3 75% 3 and principally fell under four main areas: financial statements Mary Francis 9 90% Richard Karl Goeltz 12 92% and accounting policies, internal controls, the oversight of the 4 Euleen Goh 12 92% internal audit function and the oversight of external audit.
The Michael Hawker 12 92% Committees work in each of these areas is described below.
The 1 This shows the percentage of meetings which the Committee member attended during the year whilst a member.
group company secretary assisted the Committee chairman in of the Committee.
A number of the Committee members were unable to attend meetings called at short notice.
2 Appointed to the Committee on 8 August 2012. planning the Committees work, and ensured that the Committee 3 Resigned from the Board and the Committee on 3 October 2012.
4 Resigned from the Board and the Committee on 31 December 2012. received information and papers in a timely manner.
The chart on the next page shows how the Committee allocated its time The Committee met on thirteen occasions in 2012, of which two during 2012. meetings were called at short notice.
Two of the meetings were held jointly with the Risk Committee to focus on the business of Aviva France and the Groups capital and liquidity position, and five of the meetings were held in relation to the Groups financial results only.
Training and information sessions were held during the year on the Group tax and treasury functions and the integrated assurance framework.
The group company secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
98 Aviva plc Audit Committee report continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Audit committee allocation of agenda time business unit audit committees is very largely comprised of nonexecutive directors.
The chief audit officer attended business unit audit committee meetings throughout the year and reported back Financial reporting 21% on their effectiveness to the Committee.
During 2012 the External audit, auditor engagement and policy 24% members of the Committee attended several business unit audit Internal audit and controls 16% committee meetings, including those in the US, Italy, Canada and Financial reporting control framework and financial reporting developments 22% Aviva Investors.
Revised terms of reference for business unit audit Others including governance, tax, treasury committees were discussed and implemented within the business and dividends 17% units together with a new induction pack for business unit audit and risk committee members.
The Committees terms of reference require it to establish and monitor procedures for dealing with complaints from employees in relation to accounting issues.
The Committee reviews the Financial statements and accounting policies procedures annually and received regular updates from the chief audit officer on any significant complaints received.
A description In conjunction with members of management and the internal of the Companys systems of internal control is included in the and external auditors, the Committee reviewed the Groups Corporate Governance Report on pages 89 to 94. financial announcements, including the Annual Report and Accounts and associated documentation, the half year results and Internal audit the interim management statements, and the going concern Internal Audit reports to the Board primarily via the Audit and statement in relation to the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Risk Committees and to management on the effectiveness of the Committee placed particular emphasis on their fair presentation Companys system of internal controls and the adequacy of this and the reasonableness of the judgement factors and system to manage business risk and to safeguard the Groups appropriateness of significant accounting policies used in assets and resources.
During the year, the Committee considered the treatment of Internal audit charter and business standard various assets in the Groups accounts and the accounting The Committee approved a new Internal Audit charter and an assumptions applied to the results, including the reclassification of Internal Audit business standard in early 2012.
The charter sets Delta Lloyd from an associate to an investment following a further out the purpose, functions, scope and responsibilities of the disposal of the Groups holding in Delta Lloyd: the held for sale Internal Audit function and how it maintains independence from classification of Avivas US business: the impairment assumptions the first and second line management of the Group.
The three for the US business and the Groups Spanish bancassurance joint main functions of Internal Audit are to: ventures: and the impact of unwinding the Irish joint venture Assess and report on the effectiveness of the design and arrangements with Allied Irish Bank.
A number of new accounting operation of the framework of controls which enable risk standards were issued by the International Accounting Standards to be assessed and managed: Board at the end of 2011 which become effective in 2013 and Investigate and report on cases of suspected financial crime the Committee monitored the action taken by management to and employee fraud: and ensure compliance with the new standards.
The Committee also Undertake advisory projects for management provided that considered the changes to the Code and associated guidance they do not threaten the functions actual or perceived relating to audit committees and the Committees Report in the independence from management.
2013 Annual Report and Accounts will include disclosure of the significant issues it has considered in relation to the Groups The Internal Audit business standard sets out the business financial statements.
During the year the Committee also received requirements of senior management across the Group in order reports on the adequacy of the Groups life assurance and general to support Internal Audit in achieving its objectives and requires insurance reserves, reviewed the audit representation letters prior businesses to design and operate processes and controls to satisfy to signature on behalf of the Board to ensure that the the mandatory requirements in the standard based on the size information provided to the external auditor was complete and and complexity of the business and the nature of the risks and appropriate and monitored managements responsiveness to the challenges it faces.
The standard also includes controls around external auditors findings and recommendations.
local legal and regulatory risks.
Any breaches of the standard must be reported to the chief audit officer and others as Internal control appropriate.
During the year the Committee received quarterly updates on the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting control framework Annual plan and focus of reviews in 2012 and discussed rectification of any deficiencies in controls.
In that Internal Audits 2012 annual plan was reviewed and approved respect, the Committee focused on the work by management to by the Committee.
Planned reviews were prioritised following improve the internal control framework in Aviva Investors, where a risk-based assessment of the business and a review against the a new controls assurance team had been established, and Groups risk policies.
The reviews carried out covered an extensive enhancing controls around end-user computing policies and sample of controls over all risk types, business units and regulated practices and monitoring US IT change management.
entities and covered business as usual activities and an The Committee reported to the Board regarding the assessment of change programmes.
The Committee received effectiveness of the Groups overall risk management and internal quarterly reports from the chief audit officer on audit reviews control systems including the risk management system in relation carried out, managements response to the findings and progress to the financial reporting process.
The Committee worked closely in addressing identified issues.
During 2012, Internal Audit carried with the Risk Committee in its overall review of the Companys out assurance reviews over inherent risks throughout the Group.
systems of risk management and internal controls.
The Reviews were focused on, but not limited to, areas such as major Committee encouraged continuous improvements in the projects including Solvency II and the Aviva Ireland Transformation effectiveness of internal controls where appropriate.
Programme: maintenance of controls during the management The system of internal controls extends to the Groups restructuring programme: IT availability, security and business units, each of which has an audit committee that recoverability: financial reporting and disclosure: financial risk, provides an oversight role for its business.
Membership of these central liquidity and capital management: and the internal control Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 99 Aviva plc Audit Committee report continued Annual report and accounts 2012 environment at Aviva Investors.
The chief audit officer increased reporting and regulatory matters, due diligence on acquisitions managements focus throughout the year on managements and disposals, project assurance and advice, tax compliance progress on closing overdue audit issues where further services, and employee tax services.
During the year the improvement is still required.
Committee received quarterly reports of compliance against the The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the Internal standard.
Audit function against criteria provided by the Institute of The Group paid 13.5 million to PwC for audit services in Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and by the Institute 2012, relating to the statutory audit of the Group and Company of Internal Auditors and concluded that the function was financial statements, the audit of Group subsidiaries, and auditeffective.
An independent review is carried out every five years related assurance services 2011: 17.3 million to Ernst & Young and the next independent review is due to be carried out in 2013.
Prior to 2012, PwC was a significant provider of consulting Chief audit officer services to the Group.
The level of fees for non-audit services in The chief audit officer had direct access to the Board chairman, 2012 below includes fees billed in the year relating to projects the Committee chairman and the Committee members.
The that commenced prior to PwCs appointment as external auditor.
Committee worked with the chief financial officer to determine All of these services are in compliance with applicable UK, US and the chief audit officers objectives and evaluate his levels of International Federation of Accountants independence rules.
achievement, and to approve the chief audit officers We do not expect PwCs non-audit fees to continue at this level in remuneration.
His annual performance related bonus was the future.
unconnected to the Groups financial performance.
During the The fees for other services, which included MCEV year the chief audit officer became a member of the Group supplementary reporting, assurance on the Groups 2012 Executive and his reporting line changed from the Group CEO to Corporate Responsibility Report, advice on accounting, risk and the chief financial officer.
The chief audit officers membership of regulatory matters, reporting on internal controls, reporting on the Group Executive assisted the relationship between Internal the Groups Individual Capital Assessment and Economic Capital, Audit and management.
Notwithstanding his appointment to the work in relation to preparing the business for Solvency II Group Executive, his independence was maintained as the Group implementation, and work on capital transactions, were 18.3 Executive, acting as a committee, has no decision making million to PwC 2011: 11.2 million to Ernst & Young LLP, giving authority and assurances were received from management that a total fee to PwC of 31.8 million 2011: 28.5 million to Ernst & adequate safeguards had been put in place to maintain the Young LLP.
In addition the Group paid 1 million to Ernst & independence, authority and standing of the chief audit officer Young LLP in 2012 in relation to the 2011 audit.
and the Internal Audit function.
Following the senior The 2012 fees for other non-audit services for continuing management restructuring which took place during the year the operations of 7.7 million includes advice to our European Internal Audit function aligned itself to the new structure and the businesses in relation to the risk management aspects of Solvency Committee remained satisfied that the Internal Audit function II 1.9 million, 1.9 million relating to four regulatory advice had sufficient resources to undertake its duties.
engagements, 0.7 million relating to restructuring at Aviva Investors, 0.3 million for risk training, 0.3 million supporting an External auditor industry-wide competition review, 0.3 million for an additional PwC was appointed by the Board as the Companys external claims reserves review and 2.3 million for other services.
The auditor on 22 March 2012 for the 2012 reporting period and was 2012 fees for tax compliance services of 0.4 million includes fees re-appointed by shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
The Committee for one engagement in Higher Growth markets of 0.3 million, led the tender and selection process through which PwC was and fees for corporate finance transactions of 0.3 million relates appointed and has recommended to the Board that PwC be to an engagement for an Aviva Investors property fund.
In line re-appointed by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
There are no with the external auditor business standard, the Committee contractual obligations that restrict the Committees choice of satisfied itself that for these engagements, robust controls external auditor.
including appropriate levels of review were in place to ensure Given the resignation of Ernst & Young LLP as external auditor that PwCs objectivity and independence was safeguarded, and in early 2012 and that PwC has only just completed its first full concluded that it was in the interests of the Company to purchase year audit, no external auditor effectiveness review was carried these services from PwC due to their specific expertise.
A review will be conducted in 2013. details are provided in note 12.
The Company has an external auditor business standard in place which is aimed at safeguarding and supporting the Committee performance and effectiveness independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The The Committee undertook an annual review of its performance standard is in full compliance with all UK, US and International and effectiveness which concluded that overall the Committee Federation of Accountants IFAC rules and takes into account the was effective in carrying out its duties.
The Committee agreed Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standards for Auditors.
that its priorities for 2013 should include continuing to monitor As discussed above, the Committee believes that Glyn Group liquidity jointly with the Risk Committee, ensuring that Barkers connection with PwC does not compromise PwCs appropriate controls remain in place during the continued independence.
restructuring of the Group, closely monitoring reserving and The standard regulates the appointment of former audit actuarial assumptions changes, and considering compliance employees to senior finance positions in the Group and sets out with the relevant new requirements of the UK Corporate the approach to be taken by the Group when using the non-audit Governance Code.
services of the principal external auditor.
It distinguishes between i those services where an independent view is required and Audit Committee Report those that should be performed by the external auditor such This Audit Committee Report was reviewed and approved by the as statutory and non-statutory audit and assurance work : ii Board on 6 March 2013. prohibited services where the independence of the external auditor could be threatened and must not be used: and iii other non-audit services where the external auditor may be used.
NonRussell Walls audit services where the external auditor may be used include: Chairman, Audit Committee non-recurring internal controls and risk management reviews excluding outsourcing of internal audit work, advice on financial
