Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 85 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Directors report The directors submit their Annual Report and Accounts With the exception of restrictions on transfer of the ordinary for Aviva plc, together with the consolidated financial shares under the Companys employee share incentive plans statements of the Aviva group of companies, for the year whilst the shares are subject to the rules of the plans, there are ended 31 December 2012. no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys The Performance Review on pages 25 to 60, the Corporate ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the Company.
Responsibility Report on pages 61 to 76, Shareholder Information Where, under an employee share incentive plan operated by on pages 121 to 144 which includes the risks relating to our the Company, participants are the beneficial owners of shares but business, the Corporate Governance Report on pages 89 to 94, not the registered owners, the voting rights are normally exercised and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 104 to 120 are at the discretion of the participants.
No person holds securities incorporated into this Directors Report by reference and, together in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of with this Directors Report constitute the Business Review required the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements under the Companies Act 2006 and the Management Report between holders of securities that may result in restrictions in the required under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
Details transfer of securities or voting rights.
Unless expressly specified of material acquisitions and disposals made by the Group during to the contrary in the articles of association, the articles of the year are contained in note 3. association may only be amended by special resolution of the Companys shareholders in general meeting.
There are a number Results of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company, such as commercial contracts and The Groups results for the year are shown in the consolidated joint venture agreements.
None are considered to be significant income statement on page 160. in terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
All of the Companys employee share incentive plans Principal activity contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding The Company is the holding company of the Aviva plc group of awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable companies Group whose principal activities are the provision on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any of general insurance, life assurance, long term savings and fund performance conditions and pro rata reduction as may be management services.
applicable under the rules of the employee share incentive plans.
At the Annual General Meeting AGM in 2013, shareholders Dividends will be asked to renew the directors authority to allot new The directors are recommending a final dividend of 9.00 pence securities.
Details are contained in the 2013 Notice of Annual per ordinary share 2011: 16.00 pence, which, together with General Meeting Notice of AGM.
the interim dividend of 10.00 pence per ordinary share paid on 16 November 2012 2011:10.00 pence, produces a total Authority to purchase own shares dividend for the year of 19.00 pence per ordinary share 2011: At the Companys 2012 AGM, shareholders renewed the 26.00 pence.
The total cost of ordinary dividends paid in 2012 Companys authorities to make market purchases of up to 290 was 757 million 2011: 738 million.
Subject to shareholder million ordinary shares, up to 100 million 8% preference shares approval at the 2013 Annual General Meeting, the final dividend 3 and up to 100 million 8 % preference shares.
These authorities 8 for 2012 will be paid on 17 May 2013 to all holders of ordinary were not used during the year or up to the date of this Report.
shares on the Register of Members at the close of business on At the 2013 AGM, shareholders will be asked to renew these 22 March 2013 and approximately five business days later for authorities for another year and the resolution will once again holders of the Companys American Depositary Receipts.
propose a maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares which the Company can purchase of less than 10% of the issued Share capital and control ordinary share capital.
Details are contained in the Notice of The issued ordinary share capital of the Company was increased AGM.
The Company held no treasury shares during the year by 40,259,323 ordinary shares during the year.
3,335,566 shares or up to the date of this Report.
were allotted under the Groups employee share and incentive plans and 36,923,757 shares were allotted under the Aviva Scrip Major shareholdings Dividend Scheme for the May 2012 and November 2012 The table below shows the holdings of major shareholders in the dividends.
At 31 December 2012 the issued ordinary share capital Companys issued ordinary share capital in accordance with the totalled 2,945,972,261 shares of 25 pence each and the issued Disclosure and Transparency Rules as at 31 December 2012 and preference share capital totalled 200 million shares of 1 each.
Accordingly, the issued and paid-up ordinary share capital constituted 79% of the Companys total issued share capital Shareholding interest and the issued preference share capital constituted 21% of the At 31 December 2012 At 5 March 2013 Companys total issued share capital at 31 December 2012.
All Notified Nature of Notified Nature of the Companys shares in issue are fully paid up and the ordinary Shareholder holdings holding holdings holding and preference shares have a Premium and Standard listing 1 BlackRock, Inc 5.15% Indirect 5.15% Indirect 2 respectively on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company is Legal & General Group plc 3.98% Direct 3.98% Direct 1 AXA S. A.
3.86% Direct & 3.86% Direct & listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the form of indirect indirect American Depositary Shares, referenced to ordinary shares, under 1 Holding includes holdings of subsidiaries.
Details of the Companys 2 Interest held by Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Ltd. share capital and shares under option at 31 December 2012 and shares issued during the year are given in notes 29 to 32.
Directors The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys The directors as at the date of this Report are shown together ordinary shares and preference shares, together with the powers with their biographical details on pages 80 to 82.
During the year of the Companys directors, are set out in the Companys articles and up to the date of this Report, the following Board of association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies appointments, resignations and retirements occurred: House and the Companys website at www.
com investorGlyn Barker appointed 27 February 2012 relations corporate-governance , or by Igal Mayer resigned 19 April 2012 writing to the group company secretary.
Leslie Van fide Walle resigned 2 May 2012 Andrew Moss resigned 8 May 2012 86 Aviva plc Directors report continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Lord Sharman of Redlynch retired 30 June 2012 Political donations Mary Francis resigned 3 October 2012 At the 2012 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution, on a Mark Wilson appointed 1 December 2012 and became precautionary basis, to authorise the Company to make political Group CEO on 1 January 2013 donations and or incur political expenditure as such terms are Euleen Goh resigned 31 December 2012 defined in sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006, in Sir Adrian Montague appointed 14 January 2013 each case in amounts not exceeding 100,000 in aggregate.
As Bob Stein appointed 28 January 2013 the authority granted will expire on 9 May 2013, renewal of this authority will be sought at this years AGM.
Further details are Directors interests and indemnity available in the Notice of AGM.
The definitions of political arrangements donations and political expenditure used in the Companies Act At no time during the year did any director hold a material 2006 are broad in nature and this authority is sought to ensure interest in any contract of significance with the Company or any that any activities undertaken throughout the Group, which could of its subsidiary undertakings other than an indemnity provision otherwise be construed to fall within these provisions, can be between each director and the Company and employment undertaken without inadvertently infringing them.
It is not the contracts between each executive director and a Group company.
policy of the Company to make donations to EU political There is no arrangement or understanding with any shareholder, organisations or to incur other political expenditure.
customer, supplier, or any other external party, to appoint a During the year, the Aviva USA Political Action Committee, director or a member of the Group Executive.
The Company has which is funded solely by voluntary contributions from employees purchased and maintained throughout the year, directors and of Aviva USA Corporation a subsidiary of the Company, made officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors.
contributions to six candidate campaigns and industry political The directors also have the benefit of the indemnity provision action committees.
The total sum of the donations made was contained in the Companys articles of association.
The Company $32,500 and the donations were used to support candidates for has executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each director nomination and or election to public office.
of the Company, and each person who was a director of the Group employees Company during the year, in respect of liabilities that may attach to them in their capacity as directors of the Company or of The Groups statement on its employees is set out in the associated companies.
These indemnities were granted at Corporate Responsibility Report.
In summary, the Groups different times according to the law in place at the time and commitment to communication and dialogue with employees where relevant are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions continues.
The existence of a Group-wide intranet enables as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
These engagement and communication with employees throughout the indemnities were in force throughout the year and are currently Group.
It also helps management to share information, ideas and in force.
Details of directors remuneration, service contracts, opportunities quickly and to achieve a common awareness on employment contracts and interests in the shares of the Company the part of all employees of the financial and economic factors are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
affecting the performance of the Company.
A strong emphasis is placed on the provision of news and information through a range Financial instruments of media.
Employees have opportunities to voice their opinions Group companies use financial instruments to manage certain and ask questions through intranet sites, question and answer types of risks, including those relating to credit, foreign currency sessions with the Group CEO, via telephone conferencing, exchange, cash flow, liquidity, interest rates, and equity and opinion surveys and the Groups Employee Promise Survey property prices.
Details of the objectives and management of which is open to all employees.
Face-to-face briefings and team these instruments are contained in the Risk and Capital meetings are actively encouraged and are held in business units Management section on pages 56 to 59, the Shareholder across the Group.
The Groups businesses in the UK have Information section on pages 121 to 144 and an indication of the established employee consultative forums and a European exposure of the Group companies to such risks is contained in Consultative Forum convenes annually to discuss matters note 56 to the consolidated financial statements.
impacting the business across Europe.
The Group ensures that involvement of employees in its performance is encouraged by Health and safety allowing eligible employees in the UK to participate in the Groups employee share ownership plans.
Aviva is committed to providing a safe and healthy working environment for all staff, contractors and anyone who is or may Employee practice be affected by the business undertakings.
The Groups health and safety standard sets out the range of policies, procedures The Group respects all fundamental human rights and is guided in and systems required to manage risks and promote wellbeing.
the conduct of its business by the provisions of the United Nations This includes appropriate staff consultation through nominated Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour health and safety representatives.
The Group CEO has overall Organization core labour standards.
The Group also supports the accountability for health and safety across the organisation.
United Nations Global Compact Principles.
The Group is committed Health and safety performance is regularly reviewed through to providing equal opportunities to all employees, irrespective of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
their gender, sexual orientation, marital status, race, nationality, ethnic origin, disability, age, religion or union membership status.
Charitable donations Aviva is an inclusive employer and values diversity among its employees.
These commitments extend to recruitment and Aviva takes its corporate citizenship seriously and recognises selection, training, career development, flexible working the role it plays in the communities in which it operates and the arrangements, promotion and performance appraisal.
role they play in its business.
The Groups flagship community development programme is Street to School.
Further details of Creditor payment policy and practice this and the Groups other charitable, community and corporate responsibility initiatives are disclosed in the Corporate It is the Groups policy to pay creditors when they fall due Responsibility Report on pages 61 to 76. for payment and the Company follows the government During 2012, 5.7 million was donated in cash to UKendorsed Prompt Payment Code which can be found at based charities by the Company and its subsidiaries.
Terms of payment are of 8.9 million was donated by the Group world-wide.
agreed with suppliers when negotiating each transaction and the Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 87 Aviva plc Directors report continued Annual report and accounts 2012 policy is to abide by those terms, provided that the suppliers also Going concern comply with all relevant terms and conditions.
In respect of The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to Group activities in the UK, the amounts due to trade creditors affect its future development, performance and position are set at 31 December 2012 represented 17.9 days of average daily out in the Essential Read on pages 1 to 24, which includes the purchases through the year 2011: 22.2 days.
Market Focus section on pages 20 to 24.
The Performance Review is set out on pages 25 to 60 and includes the Risk and Capital Disclosure of information to the auditor Management section on pages 56 to 59.
In addition, the financial In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, statements sections include notes on the Groups borrowings the directors in office at the date of approval of this Report note 48 : its contingent liabilities and other risk factors note 51 : confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no its capital structure and position note 53 : management of its relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor, risks including market, credit and liquidity risk note 56 : and  LLP PwC, is unaware and each director derivative financial instruments note 57. has taken all steps that ought to have been taken as a director to The Group has considerable financial resources together with be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that a diversified business model, with a spread of businesses and PwC is aware of that information.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Change of auditor After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable Following a tender process in 2011, PwC was appointed as the expectation that the Company and the Group as a whole have Companys external auditor commencing with the 2012 financial adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the year and its appointment was approved by shareholders at the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the 2012 AGM.
PwC is subject to annual re-election and resolutions going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
on its appointment and seeking authorisation for the directors to set the auditors remuneration are included in the Notice of AGM.
Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Annual General Meeting Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in The 2013 AGM of the Company will be held on Thursday, 9 May accordance with applicable law and regulations.
2013 at the Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London EC2Y 8DS at Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 11am.
The Notice of AGM convening the meeting describes the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors business to be conducted thereat.
have prepared the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Related party transactions Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the Details of related party transactions are disclosed in note 59 which directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of is incorporated into this Report by reference.
affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, Value of interests in land the directors are required to: Any difference between market value and the value included in Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the balance sheet regarding the Groups interests in land are consistently: disclosed in notes 20 and 21 and are incorporated into this Make judgements and accounting estimates that are Report by reference.
reasonable and prudent: State whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European Events after the reporting period Union have been followed, subject to any material On 8 January 2013 the Company announced its intention to sell departures disclosed and explained in the financial the Groups remaining stake in Delta Lloyd N. V. a Dutch listed statements: and insurance company.
The sale took place by way of an accelerated Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis book build offering and the Groups entire remaining holding of unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 34,288,795 ordinary shares in Delta Lloyd N. V. was sold at a price continue in business.
The sale completed on 14 January 2013.
On 17 January 2013 the Company announced it had agreed The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting to sell the Groups stake in its Malaysian joint ventures, CIMB records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Aviva Assurance Berhad and CIMB Aviva Takaful Berhad, to Sun transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Life Assurance Company of Canada for 152 million payable in the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable cash.
The deal is subject to regulatory approval and is expected them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors to complete during the first half of 2013.
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, On 27 February 2013 the Company announced it had agreed as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS to sell Aviva Russia to Blagosostoyanie, a non-state pension fund Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets in Russia, for a consideration of 35 million payable in cash.
The of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable sale is subject to approval by the Federal Antimonopoly Service of steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other the Russian Federation and it is expected that the sale will irregularities.
complete during the first half of 2013.
88 Aviva plc Directors report continued Annual report and accounts 2012 The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement Each of the directors listed on pages 80 to 82 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit loss of the Group: and The Directors Report and the Management Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board on 6 March 2013.
Mark Wilson Patrick Regan Group chief executive officer Chief financial officer
