Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 83 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Group Executive The Group Executive is made up of the Kirstine Cooper Amanda Mackenzie executive directors and the senior Group general counsel and company Chief marketing and communications executives whose biographies appear secretary officer Born August 1964 Born December 1963 below.
The Group Executive meets weekly as a forum for the Group CEO to discuss Joined Aviva in 1991 and is the group Joined Aviva in March 2008 and is chief general counsel and company secretary for marketing and communications officer the strategic, financial, reputational and commercial aspects of the Group.
The Aviva plc and heads the Office of the with responsibility for all Group marketing, Chairman.
She was appointed to the communications and public affairs.
She is forum does not have decision-making authority in its own right and authority Group Executive in May 2012 and leads also the executive sponsor for diversity and the legal and company secretarial function inclusion.
She joined the Group Executive rests with each of the members within their respective remits.
She is a lawyer and worked in the legal She oversaw the rebrand of the Group David Barral function at Avivas legacy companies and set up the global marketing and Chief executive officer, Aviva UK & before leading the property division of communications function.
Ireland Life General Accident and the group legal She has 25 years of marketing and Born March 1962 function of CGU for eight years.
She was advertising experience, including director Appointed chief executive officer, Aviva UK formerly deputy group company secretary roles at British Airways Airmiles, BT and Life in June 2011.
In March 2012 he took and legal counsel of Aviva plc.
She is a non-executive director on additional responsibility for Aviva's Life appointment as group general counsel and at Mothercare plc.
business in Ireland, becoming chief company secretary she has created Aviva's executive officer, Aviva UK & Ireland Life.
David McMillan first global legal leadership team.
He became a member of the Group Chief executive officer, Aviva Europe Born February 1966 Executive in April 2012.
Carole Jones He was formerly chief operating officer Acting group HR director Joined Aviva in November 2002 and is Born June 1960 chief executive officer Aviva Europe with for Aviva UK Life responsible for customer propositions, pricing and customer Joined Aviva in 1990 and is acting group accountability for the Groups businesses in HR director with responsibility for Italy, Lithuania, Poland, Russia, Spain and operations.
He joined Aviva in 1999 as director of managing human resources across the Turkey.
He is also chairman of Aviva France Group.
She joined the Group Executive in SA.
He joined the Group Executive in independent financial advisor business and was appointed distribution director in 2005 July 2012.
She has been with the Group for more He was previously group covering independent financial advisor IFA, retail, partnership and employee than 20 years, initially as HR manager in transformation director with responsibility the UK Life and General Insurance for managing the implementation of benefit channels.
In 2008 he was appointed marketing director and led the businesses.
In 2006 she was appointed Avivas strategic plan across the Group, acting human resources director for the refocusing and optimising the Groups Aviva rebrand for the UK Life business.
During his time at Aviva, he has Group's Norwich Union Life business in the business portfolio, achieving financial UK, and in 2008 she relocated to the US strength, improving performance, and spearheaded much of the UK Life and pensions business activities to champion where she led the HR function for Aviva's building a high-performance ethic North American region until she returned across Aviva.
the customer, including supporting a move to the open market option for UK annuity to the UK as director of HR strategy & He was previously chief executive organisational development in 2011.
She officer, Aviva UK & Ireland General customers.
Prior to joining Aviva, he spent 20 years was appointed acting group HR director Insurance, chief operating officer for Aviva in July 2012.
UK General Insurance, chairman of Aviva in financial services including roles in sales, marketing, operations and business Global Services and non-executive director John Lister of Aviva Health and began his career with transformation at organisations including Group chief risk and capital officer Eagle Star, Prudential and Morgan Aviva as director of partnerships Born April 1958 bancassurance.
Joined Aviva in 1986 and is the group chief Prior to joining Aviva, he spent 12 years risk and capital officer.
He has overall Paul Boyle as director of management consultancy Chief audit officer responsibility for managing capital across with  LLP.
His role Born July 1959 Aviva, preparing the business for Solvency involved leading projects spanning mergers Joined Aviva in November 2010 as chief II and ensuring that an appropriate risk and acquisitions, retail banking, audit officer and became a member of the management framework is in place.
He has more than 25 years experience He was formerly the first chief working in the UK Life business.
He is an executive of the Financial Reporting actuary and spent the first nine years of his Council FRC, the UKs independent career in a variety of senior actuarial roles regulator responsible for promoting across the UK Life business before confidence in corporate reporting and becoming its chief actuary in 2005.
Whilst 2009 he became finance director of Aviva in this role, he led the establishment of the UK Life, and in April 2012 he was International Forum of Independent Audit appointed group chief capital officer.
Regulators serving as its chairman or viceHis role was expanded in July 2012 and chairman from 2006 until 2009.
Before he became group chief capital and risk joining the FRC, he was a member of the officer, with responsibility for the Groups leadership team at the Financial Services risk and capital functions, and a member Authority, serving as chief operating officer of the Group Executive reporting to Mark from 2000 until 2004.
He has also held Wilson for risk matters and Patrick Regan senior management roles in WH Smith for capital matters.
Group plc and Cadbury Schweppes plc.
84 Aviva plc Group Executive continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Cathryn Riley Maurice Tulloch Chief operations officer President and chief executive officer, Born April 1962 Aviva Canada Born March 1969 Joined Aviva in 1996 and is chief operations officer with responsibility for IT, Joined Aviva in 1992 and is president and chief executive officer of Aviva Canada business change and shared services across the Group.
She joined the Group Executive with responsibility for the strategic direction and operation of Canadas in May 2011.
She joined Commercial Union in 1996 second largest property and casualty insurer, and the second largest general and subsequently held a number of senior roles in its successor companies, CGU and insurance operation in the Group.
He joined the Group Executive in July 2012.
She served as operations director and retail director at Norwich He was previously executive vicepresident and chief operating officer, Aviva Union and spent seven years in various executive roles within Aviva's UK General Ontario and specialty distribution and previously held several senior management Insurance business.
She has also previously served as managing director Norwich positions in the Group.
He is chair of the Insurance Bureau of Union Healthcare, business services director of Norwich Union Life, chief Canada IBC, chair of the Property & Casualty Insurance Compensation operating officer Aviva UK Life, chief operating officer and chief information Corporation PACICC Board, chair of the Insurance Institute of Canada IIC Board officer of Aviva Europe and UK commercial director.
She is currently a non-executive and a member of the General Insurance Statistical Agency GISA Board.
He is a member of IBCs National Auto Robin Spencer Insurance Committee, GISAs Executive Chief executive officer, Aviva UK & Committee and Statistical Plan Committee, Ireland General Insurance Toronto Financial Services Alliance TFSA Born January 1970 Leadership Council Committee, and the Joined Aviva in 1995 and is chief executive Financial Services Commission of Ontario officer, UK & Ireland General Insurance FSCO CEO Advisory Committee.
with responsibility for leading Avivas largest general insurance business.
He Jason Windsor joined the Group Executive in January Chief strategy and development officer 2010.
Born August 1972 He was previously group chief risk Joined Aviva in May 2010 and is the chief officer, chief financial officer and strategy and development officer, with subsequently president and chief executive additional executive responsibility for officer of Aviva Canada.
Prior to that, he overseeing Aviva Investors.
He joined the was global finance transformation director.
He previously worked in Group Finance He was formerly chief strategy & in London and held a number of senior planning officer with responsibility for finance roles with Norwich Union mergers, acquisitions and disposals, the Insurance, including finance director for Groups strategic financial plan and London & Edinburgh, a subsidiary of Aviva.
oversight of Avivas Investor Relations Prior to joining Aviva, he spent five years function.
with Procter & Gamble in the UK.
Prior to joining Aviva, he was managing director in the Financial Institutions Group at Morgan Stanley, with management responsibility for the European asset management sector.
