100 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Risk Committee report This Report provides details of the role of the Risk Committee and Canada.
The group company secretary acted as the secretary to the work it has undertaken during the year.
In November, the Committee chairman hosted a two-day Committee role and responsibilities conference for the chairmen of the boards and risk committees of the Groups principal subsidiaries.
The agenda included The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in its discussions on Solvency II: revisions to the timing of oversight of risk within the Group through reviewing the Groups implementation of Solvency II and the impact on the Groups risk appetite and risk profile, the effectiveness of the Groups risk capital regime: the FSAs perspective of the roles and management framework and the methodology and assumptions responsibilities of the Board, the Committee and the business used in determining the Groups capital requirements.
The unit boards and risk committees under Solvency II: calculation Committee also works with the Remuneration Committee to of economic capital and the internal model: and an in-depth ensure that risk is properly considered in setting the Groups analysis of the Groups key risk types.
The Committee oversees all aspects of risk The chairman of the Company, Group CEO, chief risk and management in the Group, including market, credit, liquidity, capital officer, chief financial officer and the chief audit officer insurance and operational risk including franchise risk, and their normally attended all Committee meetings.
Other members of impact on both financial and non-financial goals.
senior management were also invited to attend as appropriate to present reports.
It was the Committees practice to hold The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: private sessions at the beginning of each meeting to discuss Review the Groups risk appetite and future risk strategy, issues to be raised with management in the main meeting, and particularly in relation to economic i. e. risk-based capital, to meet with the Group CEO, chief finance officer and chief risk liquidity, reputation and operational risk, and make and capital officer without any other members of management recommendations on risk appetite to the Board: being present.
Review the Groups risk profile against its risk appetite and The Committee chairman reported to the subsequent meeting strategy and review the drivers of changes, if any, in the of the Board on the Committees work and the Board received a Groups risk profile: copy of the agenda and the minutes of each Committee meeting.
Review the design, completeness and effectiveness of the Throughout the year, the Committee chairman sat on the Audit risk management framework relative to the Groups and Remuneration Committees to ensure that risk considerations activities: were fully reflected in the decisions of those Committees.
Assess the adequacy and quality of the risk management In performing its duties, the Committee had access to the function and the effectiveness of risk reporting within the services of the chief risk and capital officer, chief audit officer, Group: the group company secretary and external professional advisers.
Review the methodology and assumptions used in the Groups models for determining its economic and regulatory External environment capital requirements: and Work with the Remuneration Committee, to ensure that risk The external environment was once again one of much is considered in setting the overall remuneration policy for international economic uncertainty.
Doubts about the strength the Group.
and economic recovery rates in the OECD, political uncertainty in the worlds two largest economies with leadership changes in Revised Committee terms of reference were adopted in January China and presidential elections in the United States, and the 2013 following an annual refresh.
The full terms of reference for increased regulatory and capital burden on the financial services the Committee can be found on the Companys website at industry, dampened the risk appetite of investors.
com terms-of-reference, and are also available from This resulted in the continued reduction in OECD interest the group company secretary.
rates, further quantitative easing from the US, Japanese, UK and European Governments, high levels of OECD unemployment, and Committee membership and attendance times of excessive volatility in credit spreads.
Towards the end of the year, the emergence of early growth The Committee comprises independent non-executive directors in the US, greater clarity surrounding the political changes in the only.
The table below shows the Committee members during the US and China, and a continuation of low interest rates saw a rally year and their attendance at Committee meetings.
in the equity markets and a tightening of credit spreads and lower volatility.
Membership and attendance The question one asks, is whether these perceived Number of meetings 1 Committee member attended Percentage attendance improvements in the worlds economic environment are Michael Hawker Chairman 11 100% sustainable or short lived?
2 Glyn Barker 7 88% 3 Mary Francis 8 100% 4 Committee activities during 2012 Leslie Van fide Walle 3 100% Russell Walls 11 100% The work of the Committee followed an agreed annual work 1 This shows the percentage of meetings which the Committee member attended during the year whilst a member of plan, which evolved throughout the year in response to the the Committee.
changing macro-economic and regulatory environment and 2 Glyn Barker joined the Committee on 2 May 2012.
He was unable to attend the Committee meeting held on 4 December 2012 due to prior commitments and this meeting being called at short notice.
changes in the Companys strategy.
The group company 3 Mary Francis resigned from the Committee on 3 October 2012.
4 Leslie Van fide Walle resigned from the Committee on 2 May 2012. secretary and the group chief capital and risk officer assisted the Committee chairman in planning the Committees work, and The Committee met on eleven occasions in 2012, of which nine ensured that the Committee received information and papers in were scheduled Committee meetings and two were additional a timely manner.
Committee meetings called at short notice.
Two of the meetings were held jointly with the Audit Committee to consider the business of Aviva France and the Groups capital and liquidity position.
The Committee followed a programme of attending meetings of business unit risk committees and, during the year, members of the Committee attended meetings in the US and Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 101 Aviva plc Risk Committee report continued Annual report and accounts 2012 The chart below shows how the Committee allocated its time programme of board training and preparations for legal during 2012. entity sign-off to the Groups Internal Model Approval Process IMAP submission.
Following confirmation of the delay to Risk committee allocation of agenda time implementation of the Solvency II Directive, the Committee reviewed the revised management programme to deliver enhancements to the economic capital model in the Risk appetite, risk management interim period.
and risk reporting 35% Group capital, liquidity management and stress testing 30% Risk management and governance Preparation for Solvency II 7% The Committee had an ongoing programme of receiving reports Regulatory and governance 10% from local risk committee chairmen or chief executive officers on Business protection and IT security 8% the risk environment and issues arising in the Groups businesses Others including internal audit 10% and in respect of particular product lines.
During the year, the Committee received reports on the businesses in Italy, Spain, France, the UK and the European region as a whole, and in respect of the Corporate and Speciality Risks business in the UK and business lines in France.
The Committee also received During the year the Committee focused on the following areas: updates on issues concerning IT and data security and on the Groups reinsurance programme.
The Committee received regular Risk appetite monitoring reports from the chief risk and capital officer and monitored the Against a backdrop of significant market volatility during the year, effectiveness of the Companys Risk Management Framework the Committee received regular detailed reports on key risk which is described in more detail in the Corporate Governance exposures, emerging and potential risks, and the drivers of Report on pages 89 to 94 and in note 56. risk throughout the Group.
It assessed and challenged the Throughout the year, the Committee had significant oversight appropriateness of the Groups overall risk appetite and approved of the development of a comprehensive Group-wide restructuring revised economic capital risk appetites by risk type.
The programme, designed to better align legal and management Committee monitored the Groups exposure against these structures throughout the organisation and to optimise appetites, particularly in relation to European sovereign debt governance practices at Group and subsidiary level.
In addition, holdings and counterparty and credit exposure and, throughout as part of the annual refresh of the suite of risk policies and the year, discussed and agreed the actions to be taken to reduce business standards which underpin the RMF, the Committee exposure and to address or mitigate risks that had become out of reviewed and approved the updated policies and approved a signappetite.
It also agreed a comprehensive, revised capital off process in respect of the business standards.
management framework by which capital issues would be At the end of the year, the Committee commenced an escalated to the Committee and the Board.
Mindful of the analysis of the Groups asset and investment portfolio and the potential economic, social and regulatory impact of a Eurozone framework by which business units set their investment strategies.
default, the Committee monitored significant market and Group Further analysis will continue in 2013. level contingency planning to produce tailored financial event response plans.
Regulatory oversight The Committee maintained oversight of the regulatory risks Capital and liquidity management throughout the organisation and discussed the specific Throughout the year, the Committee closely monitored the management actions identified to address or mitigate issues Groups economic capital and liquidity positions against risk which arose during the year.
The Committee also considered appetite and targets, and considered in detail the results of stress the impact of the changes in the UK and European regulatory and scenario testing at Group and local market level.
Given the landscape, particularly in light of the shift in UK regulatory focus volatility in market conditions during the year, the Committee ahead of the split of the FSA into the Prudential Regulation challenged the appropriateness of the Groups regulatory and Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority in 2013, and of economic capital surplus and liquidity targets and, after detailed increasing policyholder protectionism by European regulators.
consideration, recommended to the Board revised, strengthened targets.
The Committee gave particular focus to considering and Fraud and financial crime approving a programme of strategic, economic and operational The Committee reviewed compliance with controls against actions to be undertaken to strengthen and provide greater financial malpractice including fraud, and of the arrangements resilience to the Groups capital and liquidity positions, and for employees to report in confidence any concerns about lack of monitored the results and effectiveness of the programme.
It received updates on, and approved enhancements to, the financial crime prevention programme, Methodology and assumptions which was designed to further embed and ensure enforcement In early 2012, the Committee considered and approved the of the Groups anti-bribery and corruption policies and to provide methodology and assumptions used to calculate the economic on-going training for the Groups businesses and employees.
capital for the 2012 Individual Capital Adequacy ICA submission.
Personnel and remuneration policy Preparing for Solvency II During the year, the Committee approved the appointment of The Committee closely monitored the evolving position in relation the group chief risk and capital officer.
In early 2013 it approved to the implementation of the Solvency II Directive.
his objectives for the coming year and reviewed his performance Notwithstanding the eventual agreement in October 2012 to against 2012 objectives.
The Committee also assessed senior delay implementation until 2014, the Committee continued managements performance against the agreed common risk to have oversight of all aspects of the Groups programme objective and considered the appropriateness of the risk metrics to implement the Solvency II Directive.
Throughout the year, when setting senior management remuneration policy.
the Committee received detailed progress reports on the development of the models used to calculate economic capital requirements and the techniques used to validate the results.
The Committee also reviewed the detailed contingency plans in relation to the Groups internal model and had oversight of the 102 Aviva plc Risk Committee report continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Internal controls Working with the Audit Committee, the Committee monitored the adequacy of the RMF.
Throughout the year, the Groups Internal Audit function continued to provide the Committee with independent and objective reports on the appropriateness, effectiveness and sustainability of the Companys system of internal controls.
Key control issues reported by Internal Audit to management and to the Committee members were monitored on a quarterly basis until the related risk exposures had been properly mitigated.
More detail on the management of risk is contained in note 56.
Committee performance and effectiveness The Committee undertook an annual review of its performance and effectiveness which concluded that overall the Committee was effective in carrying out its duties.
In addition to undertaking its agreed annual programme of activities, the Committee agreed that its priorities for 2013 should be to continue to focus on capital and liquidity issues: to monitor the Groups preparedness for Solvency II: to review the quality and mix of the Groups asset portfolio: to monitor the Groups customer agenda and to oversee management actions to improve IT resilience.
Risk Committee Report This Risk Committee Report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 6 March 2013.
Michael Hawker Chairman, Risk Committee
