Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 89 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Corporate governance report This Report sets out the role and activities of the Board, its the values and the culture of the Group and has a duty to protect effectiveness, and how the Group is governed.
The Boards role is the interests of policyholders.
to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a The specific duties of the Board are clearly set out in its terms framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to of reference which address a wide range of corporate governance be assessed and managed.
The Board believes that a strong issues and lists those items that are specifically reserved for system of governance is essential to help the business run decision by the Board.
Matters requiring Board approval include: smoothly and aid effective decision making in order to support Group strategy and business plans: the achievement of the Groups objectives.
Financial reporting and controls, capital structure and dividend policy: Group risk appetite and framework: The UK Corporate Governance Code Corporate governance: As a UK listed company, Aviva seeks to comply with the UK Remuneration policy: Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code.
An amended Significant transactions and expenditure: and version of the Code was issued in September 2012 which is Other matters e. g. appointment and removal of the group applicable to companies with a UK premium listing with financial company secretary and chief risk and capital officer, Board years beginning on or after 1 October 2012: the Company will and Committee succession planning and the constitution of report on its compliance with the 2012 version of the Code in its Board Committees.
It is the Boards view that the Company has been fully The Boards terms of reference also set out those matters that compliant throughout the accounting period with the relevant must be reported to the Board, such as senior leadership provisions of the Code with the exception of the following: changes, significant litigation or material regulatory breaches, Provision A.
2.1 states that the roles of chairman and chief and cover how matters requiring consideration by the Board executive should not be exercised by the same individual and that arise between scheduled meetings should be dealt with.
3.1 states that the chairman should be independent on appointment to the Board.
John McFarlane The directors joined the Board as chairman designate in 2011 with the As at the date of this Report the Board comprises the chairman, intention that he would take over the chairmanship of the Group CEO, two further executive directors and eight Company on the retirement of Lord Sharman in June 2012. independent non-executive directors.
The following charts show However, due to the unforeseen departure of Andrew Moss the balance of the Board between executive and non-executive in May 2012, the Board asked John McFarlane to take on representation, length of tenure and the diversity of the Board in executive responsibility for running the Company in the terms of gender and nationality.
interim period until a new Group CEO was appointed.
As a result from 1 July 2012 until 1 January 2013 John McFarlane Balance of executive and non-executive directors acted as executive chairman.
He became non-executive chairman on 1 January 2013 on the appointment of Mark Wilson as Group CEO.
The Board believes that this nonChairman 1 Executive directors 3 compliance with the Code was justified in the circumstances Non-executive directors 8 given the timing of Andrew Moss departure and the need to ensure the continued effective operation of the Company until a new Group CEO could be identified and appointed.
The Board was satisfied that there was a sufficient balance between executive and non-executive directors on the Board during this period to ensure that no one individual had unfettered decision-making powers.
Provision E. 1.1 states that the senior independent director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders to listen to their views in order to help develop Gender split of directors a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Whilst Richard Goeltz did not meet with Male 11 major shareholders during 2012, throughout the year John Female 1 McFarlane and, separately, the chairman of the Remuneration Committee, undertook a programme of meetings with major shareholders to take soundings regarding the Company and to understand their concerns.
Further details of how the Company has applied the Code principles and complied with its provisions are set out in this Report, the Reports of each Board Committee and the Directors Remuneration Report.
Further information on the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
The Board The Board is responsible to shareholders for promoting the long term success of the Company and, in particular, for setting the Groups strategic aims, monitoring managements performance against the strategic aims, setting the Groups risk appetite, ensuring the Group is adequately resourced and ensuring that effective controls are in place in the business.
The Board also sets 90 Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Length of tenure of non-executive directors business, with the chairmen of the Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees spending substantially more.
0-3 years 5 The chairman and Group CEO 3-6 years 1 Role profiles are in place for the chairman and Group CEO which 6-9 years 2 clearly set out the duties of each role.
The chairmans priority is 9 years 0 leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness: the Group CEOs priority is the management of the Group.
The Board has delegated the day-to-day running of the Group to the Group CEO within certain limits, above which matters must be escalated to the Board for consideration and approval.
As noted above, the roles of chairman and Group CEO were combined and undertaken by John McFarlane prior to the 2013 AGM until the end of the year.
The Board agrees with the principle in the Code requiring these roles to be carried out by separate individuals.
Geographical mix However, due to unforeseen circumstances during the year the Board unanimously agreed that it was in the best interests of the UK 5 Company for the benefit of its shareholders to combine the roles US 3 for a short period until a new Group CEO could be recruited.
Other 4 From 1 January 2013 the roles are no longer combined.
Senior independent director Richard Goeltz has served as the senior independent director since January 2009 and as an independent non-executive director for nearly nine years.
Sir Adrian Montague will take over this role on 8 May 2013 when Richard Goeltz retires from the Board.
The role of the senior independent director is to provide a sounding board for the chairman, to serve as an intermediary for the other The Boards policy is to appoint and retain non-executive directors directors where necessary and to be available to shareholders who can apply their wider business knowledge and experiences should they have concerns that they have been unable to resolve to their understanding of the Aviva Group, and to review and through normal channels, or when such channels would be refresh regularly the skills of the Board.
In line with Code inappropriate.
During the year, the non-executive directors, led by requirements regarding the independence of non-executive Richard Goeltz, have met twice without the chairman present and directors, several non-executive directors, including the chairman, he led the review of the chairmans performance during the year.
retired in 2012 or are due to retire in 2013.
The Report of the Nomination Committee sets out the work carried out during the Board activities during 2012 year on succession planning which culminated in the appointment The work of the Board follows an agreed annual work plan and of Sir Adrian Montague and Bob Stein as non-executive directors principally falls under six main areas.
The following chart shows in January 2013 and Mark Wilson joining the Board in December how the Board allocated its time during 2012.
2012 and becoming Group CEO on 1 January 2013.
It is the Boards view that independent non-executive directors Allocation of Board agenda time need to be able to present objective, rigorous and constructive challenge to management, drawing on their wider experiences Succession planning, Board composition to question assumptions and viewpoints and where necessary and effectiveness 15% defend a given position.
The independent non-executive directors Group strategy, business plans and performance monitoring 30% should also assist management in the development of the Financial reporting and controls, capital structure Companys strategy.
To be effective, an independent director and dividend policy 22% needs to acquire a sound understanding of the industry and the Corporate governance 10% Group risk management policies, risk appetite Company so as to be able to evaluate properly the information and framework 13% provided.
Having considered the matter carefully, the Board is of Others 10% the opinion that all of the current non-executive directors are independent and free from any relationship or circumstances that could affect, or appear to affect, their independent judgement.
Accordingly, over half of the Board members, excluding the The Board monitored the performance of the Group and its chairman, are independent non-executive directors.
All of the compliance with the governance framework described below current directors that served during 2012 were subject to a formal through regular: performance evaluation during 2012 except Mark Wilson as he Group CEO reports highlighting issues such as strategic only joined the Board in December 2012.
Non-executive directors planning and execution: updates on ongoing corporate who had served on the Board for more than six years were transactions: financial forecasts and results: the Groups subject to a particularly rigorous review of their independence.
As vision and values: the external environment: personnel at the date of this Report, Richard Goeltz and Russell Walls have changes and market and competitor developments: served on the Board for more than six years and they will both be Chief financial officer reports on a range of issues including retiring from the Board on 8 May 2013 having completed nine financial results and forecasts: capital: operational years of service.
Biographical details including a summary of the performance: strategic initiatives: pensions funding deficit: skills and experience the directors bring to the Board are set out investor relations and rating agency updates: risk appetite: on pages 80 to 82. corporate transactions and progress against Solvency II: Each director must be able to devote sufficient time to the Reports and recommendations from each Board Committee: role in order to discharge his or her responsibilities effectively.
and On average, directors spend at least 41 days a year on Company Reports from business units and functions.
Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 91 Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2012 As part of its annual work plan, the Board reviewed and approved separate process was carried out by the chairman measuring all financial results announcements, the Annual Report and performance against each executive directors role objectives.
Accounts, the operational plan and dividend payments: The chairman concluded that each director contributes considered succession plans for the Board and Group Executive: effectively and demonstrates full commitment to his her duties.
approved all changes to the composition of the Board and its Induction, training and development Committees: reviewed the performance of the group chief The Board believes strongly in the development of all of its executive: received regular updates on progress against strategy: employees and directors and it is a requirement of each directors considered personnel issues including the results of the annual appointment that they commit to continuing their development.
employee promise survey: and reviewed public policy trends.
During the year, directors attended a number of internal In addition, the Board undertook the following specific courses, including on Solvency II, the Internal Model approval activities during the year: process and how rating agencies rate insurance companies.
Agreed a revised strategic plan to narrow the focus of the Training sessions have also been built into the Boards and Group, build financial strength and improve financial Committees work plans for 2013. performance: The Board has a comprehensive induction programme for Approved the Group transformation project to implement new executive and non-executive directors which is tailored to the revised strategic plan: their particular needs and which consists of several separate Appointed PwC as the Companys auditor following a training sessions over a number of months.
These include tender process: presentations from key members of senior management, visits Approved the sale of Aviva USA Corporation: to the Groups main operating businesses and functions, and Approved a further sale of Avivas stake in Delta Lloyd N. V. : meetings with the external auditor and one of the Companys Approved the issue of Tier 1 hybrid debt: corporate brokers.
Further or follow-up meetings are arranged Approved the project to merge the Groups Irish General where a director requires a deeper understanding on a particular Insurance business into the UK General Insurance business: issue.
All new directors also receive induction materials which Reviewed the progress of the project to reorganise and includes the current strategic and operational plan, recent Board flatten the Groups legal entity structure: and and Committee minutes and meeting packs, organisational Considered and approved a new IT strategy.
structure charts, role profiles, a history of the Group, and relevant policies, procedures and governance material.
The Board held one meeting in France during the year to gain a deeper understanding of the operations of the French business.
Directors attendance The Company requires directors to attend all meetings of the Board effectiveness Board and the Committees on which they serve and to devote The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group sufficient time to the Company in order to perform their duties.
and the Company undertakes a rigorous evaluation each year in The attendance of the directors at the Board meetings held in order to assess how well the Board, its Committees, the directors 2012 is shown in the table below and the attendance at and the chairman are performing.
The aim is to improve the Committee meetings is shown in the Committee reports.
effectiveness of the Board and its Committees and the Groups overall performance.
The evaluation process for 2012 was led by Board attendance 2012 the chairman and supported by the group company secretary.
Number of meetings Percentage For a number of years the Board effectiveness review had been 1 Director attended attendance facilitated by external consultants.
However, given the number 2 Glyn Barker appointed 27 February 2012 11 79% 2 of changes to the composition of the Board during the year the Mary Francis retired 3 October 2012 9 90% Richard Karl Goeltz 15 100% chairman considered that it would be more appropriate to carry Euleen Goh retired 31 December 2012 15 100% out the 2012 effectiveness review internally using questionnaires 2 Michael Hawker 14 93% tailored to the Board and each Committee.
The results were Gay Huey Evans 15 100% 2 John McFarlane 14 93% discussed by the Board and each of the Committees and actions 2 Trevor Matthews 14 93% agreed.
The review focused on the effective operation of the 2 Igal Mayer resigned 19 April 2012 2 50% Board and each Committee, the effective use of meeting time, 2 Andrew Moss resigned 8 May 2012 5 71% 2 the appropriateness of the balance of skills, knowledge and Patrick Regan 14 93% Lord Sharman retired 30 June 2012 8 100% experience of the Committee members, and identified key areas 2 Leslie Van fide Walle retired 2 May 2012 3 60% of focus for the Board and each Committee for 2013.
Overall, the Russell Walls 15 100% 2 directors concluded that the Board and its Committees operated Scott Wheway 14 93% Mark Wilson appointed 1 December 2012 2 100% effectively and agreed that the issues identified for action or 1 This shows the percentage of meetings which the director attended during the year whilst a member of the Board.
improvement in previous reviews had been implemented or 2 The director was unable to attend Board meeting s due to prior commitments and the meetings being called at short addressed during the year.
Areas identified for greater Board notice or where a conflict of interest prevented the director from taking part in the meeting.
focus in 2013 included allocating a greater proportion of time to in-depth discussions of the markets in which the Group operates During 2012, there were fifteen Board meetings held, of which, and their competitive positions and re-focusing strategy eight were scheduled Board meetings and seven were additional discussions towards the Groups long-term strategy, as well as Board meetings called at short notice.
In addition the Board continuing to monitor the Groups capital and liquidity position.
delegated responsibility for certain items, such as giving final The focus of the Board Committees in 2013 are detailed in each approval to proposals broadly agreed by the full Board, to Committees Report.
specially created sub-Committees of the Board which met seven The review of the performance of the chairman, led by the times during 2012. senior independent director, concluded that the chairman The chairman and the non-executive directors met several continued to lead the Board effectively and had been times in the absence of the executive directors and the noninstrumental in the progress which the Company and the Group executive directors met in the absence of the chairman, including had made during the year to deliver the Groups strategy.
one meeting chaired by the senior independent director to The chairman assessed the performance of the executive appraise the chairmans performance.
directors in their capacity as directors of the Company and also assessed the performance of the non-executive directors.
To assess the executive directors in respect of their executive duties a 92 Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Conflicts of interest First line In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Companys articles Management are responsible for the application of the RMF, of association allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of for implementing and monitoring the operation of the system interest that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions of internal control and for providing assurance to the Audit as it thinks fit.
The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can Committee, the Risk Committee and the Board.
only be made by non-conflicted directors those who have no The Group Executive members and each business unit chief interest in the matter being considered and in making such a executive officer are responsible for the implementation of group decision the directors must act in a way they consider in good strategies, plans and policies, the monitoring of operational and faith will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
financial performance, the assessment and control of financial, The Boards procedure to regularly review and approve actual business and operational risks and the maintenance and ongoing and potential conflicts of interest as they arise and prior to development of a robust control framework and environment in the appointment of new directors operated effectively during their areas of responsibility.
The chief financial officer has established the Asset Liability Committee ALCO which assists him in discharging his Governance structure responsibilities in relation to management of the Groups balance sheet within risk appetite and to provide financial risk The Board is responsible for promoting the long term success management oversight.
This includes recommending financial and of the Company for the benefit of shareholders.
This includes insurance risk appetites and limit frameworks, evaluating the asset ensuring that an appropriate system of governance is in place and liability impact of strategies and business plans, financial risk throughout the Group.
To discharge this responsibility, the Board oversight, monitoring and management of the Groups capital has established frameworks for risk management and internal and liquidity position, transaction risk oversight, stress and control using a three lines of defence model and reserves to scenario testing, and identification of emerging financial risks.
itself the setting of the Groups risk appetite.
In-depth monitoring Management regularly undertakes quality assurance of the establishment and operation of prudent and effective procedures over the application of the FRCF process and FRCF controls in order to assess and manage risks associated with the controls.
The results of the FRCF process are signed off by Groups operations is delegated to the Audit Committee and the business unit chief executives and chief financial officers and FRCF Risk Committee which report regularly to the Board.
However, compliance is reported up to the Disclosure Committee and the the Board retains ultimate responsibility for the Companys Audit Committee.
systems of internal control and risk management and their The Disclosure Committee is chaired by the chief financial effectiveness.
These frameworks play a key role in the officer and reports to the Audit Committee.
It oversees the management of risks that may impact the fulfilment of the design and effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls, for Boards objectives.
They are designed to identify and manage, both financial and non-financial information, evaluates the rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business Groups disclosure controls and reviews and endorses the objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Groups key periodic external reports, including the consolidated assurance against material misstatement or losses.
frameworks are regularly reviewed and comply with the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors.
Second line The Risk function is accountable for the quantitative and Risk Management Framework qualitative oversight and challenge of the identification, The Risk Management Framework RMF is designed to identify, measurement, monitoring and reporting of significant risks and measure, manage, monitor and report significant risks to the for developing the RMF.
achievement of business objectives and is embedded throughout As the business responds to changing market conditions and the Group.
It is codified through risk policies and business customer needs, the Risk function regularly monitors the standards which set out the risk strategy, appetite, framework appropriateness of the Companys risk policies and the RMF to and minimum requirements for the Groups world-wide ensure they remain up to date.
This helps to provide assurance to operations.
Further details on procedures for the management the various risk oversight committees that there are appropriate of risks are given in note 56. controls in place for all core business activities, and that the Internal controls processes for managing risk are understood and followed Internal controls facilitate effective and efficient business consistently across the Group.
operations, the development of robust and reliable internal To assist with the execution of his duties the chief risk and reporting and compliance with laws and regulations.
capital officer has established the Operational Risk and Reputation A Group Reporting Manual including International Financial Committee ORRC which oversees operational risks and Reporting Standards IFRS requirements and a Financial Reporting reputation impacts arising from activities across the Group.
It Control Framework FRCF are in place across the Group.
FRCF oversees the operational risk elements of the implementation and relates to the preparation of reliable financial reporting and maintenance of the risk policies and business standards, the preparation of local and consolidated financial statements in Groups adherence to the Operational Risk Policy, and the accordance with IFRS and with the requirements of the Sarbanesadequacy and implementation of the RMF throughout the Group.
The FRCF process follows a risk-based Third line approach, with management identification, assessment The Internal Audit function provides independent and objective documentation and testing, remediation as required, reporting assessment on the robustness of the RMF and the appropriateness and certification over key financial reporting-related controls.
and effectiveness of internal control to the Audit and Risk The Board has delegated to the Group CEO the day-to-day Committees, business unit audit committees and the Board.
management of the Company and approval of specific issues Further information on the activities of the Internal Audit function up to set financial limits including limits on revenue and capital is contained within the Audit Committee Report.
expenditure, reinsurance spend and the settlement of claims.
In turn the Group CEO has delegated some of his authority to his direct reports.
There is a similar delegated authority framework in place throughout the Group.
Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 93 Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Board oversight Any material risks not previously identified, control weaknesses The Risk Committee assists the Board in its oversight of risk and or non-compliance with the Groups risk policies and business risk management across the Group and makes recommendations standards or local delegations of authority, must be highlighted as on risk appetite to the Board.
The responsibilities and activities of part of this process.
This is then supplemented by investigations the Risk Committee are set out in the Risk Committee Report on carried out at Group level and ultimately a Group CEO and group pages 100 to 102. chief risk and capital officer certification for Aviva plc.
In respect The Audit Committee, working closely with the Risk of 2012 and in view of the recent start of the Group CEO, the Committee, is responsible for assisting the Board in discharging certification was made by the chief financial officer instead of the its responsibilities for the integrity of the Companys financial Group CEO.
The effectiveness assessment also draws on the statements, the effectiveness of the system of internal financial regular cycle of assurance activity carried out during the year.
controls and for monitoring the effectiveness, performance and The Audit Committee, working closely with the Risk objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, last reviewed the responsibilities and activities of the Audit Committee are set out effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk in the Audit Committee Report on pages 97 to 99. management in March 2013, covering all material controls, Both the Audit and Risk Committees report regularly to the including financial, operational and compliance controls and Board on their activities and make recommendations and escalate the risk management framework and processes.
significant risk exposures to the Board as appropriate.
They ensure The necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy that mitigating actions are taken when risks are, or are expected any significant failings and weaknesses identified from these to move, out of appetite.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for The chart below shows the Board and Committee structure identifying, measuring, managing, monitoring and reporting the that oversees the Companys frameworks for risk management significant risks faced by the Group, which has been in place for and internal control.
the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Aviva plc Board Aviva plc Board Communication with shareholders The Company places considerable importance on communication with shareholders and engages with them on a wide range of issues.
Audit Risk Remuneration Nomination Corporate The Group has an ongoing programme of dialogue and Committee Committee Committee Committee Responsibility Committee meetings between the executive directors and institutional investors, fund managers and analysts managed by the Companys Investor Relations function.
At these meetings a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, performance, management, remuneration and governance are discussed within Disclosure Asset Liability Operational Risk Committee Committee ALCO & Reputation the constraints of information already made public, to understand Committee ORRC any issues of concern to investors.
During the year, the chairman and the chairman of the Board Committees Management Committees Remuneration Committee met with the Companys major Further details on procedures for the management of risk institutional investors.
In addition, the senior independent director operated by the Group are given in note 56. was available to meet with major investors to discuss any areas of concern that could not be resolved through normal channels of Effectiveness of controls investor communication.
In 2012 the Board, through the Remuneration Committee chairman, consulted with institutional To support an assessment of the effectiveness of the Groups investors on executive remuneration.
governance, internal control and risk management systems, The Companys AGM provides a valuable opportunity for the the chief executive officer of each business unit is required to Board to communicate with private shareholders.
There is a certify that: dedicated email address and a query facility on the Companys There are sound risk management and internal control website which shareholders can use to ask questions on the systems that are effective and fit for purpose in place across business of the AGM.
The details of these are highlighted in the business: and the shareholder information section of the Notice of AGM.
Material existing or emerging risks within the business have A presentation on the Groups performance is given at the been identified and assessed and the business operates in AGM and made available on the website after the meeting at a manner which conforms to the minimum requirements www.
Whenever possible, all directors attend outlined in Group risk policies and business standards.
the AGM and shareholders are invited to ask questions related to the business of the meeting during the meeting and have an The chief risk officer of each business unit must certify that: opportunity to meet with the directors following the conclusion The Risk function has reviewed and challenged the process of the meeting.
All the directors on the Board at the time of the supporting the business unit chief executive officers 2012 AGM attended the meeting.
certification, and is satisfied that it can provide reasonable assurance of the material accuracy and completeness of the business unit chief executive officers assessment: and No material gaps exist in the RMF, as it applies to the business unit.
94 Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2012 New York Stock Exchange listing requirements The Companys ordinary shares are admitted to the New York Stock Exchange NYSE and are traded as American Depositary Shares.
As a foreign company listed on the NYSE, the Company is required to comply with the NYSE corporate governance rules to the extent that these rules apply to foreign private issuers.
As a foreign private issuer, the Company is therefore required to comply with NYSE Rule 303A.
11 by making a disclosure of the differences between the Companys corporate governance practices and NYSE corporate governance rules applicable to US companies listed on NYSE.
These differences are summarised below together with Avivas approach to compliance: NYSE Listing Rules UK Corporate Governance Code Aviva approach Independence criteria for directors Independent directors must form the At least half the Board, excluding the chairman, The majority of the Board comprises majority of the board of directors.
A director should comprise independent non-executive independent non-executive directors who cannot qualify as independent unless the directors, as determined by the Board.
The Code are deemed independent under the Code.
Board affirmatively determines that the sets out its own criteria that may be relevant to director has no material relationship with the independence determination, but the Board is the company.
NYSE rules prescribe a list of permitted to conclude affirmative independence specific factors and tests that US companies notwithstanding the existence of relationships or must use for determining independence.
circumstances which may appear relevant to its determination, so long as it states its reasons.
Non-executive director meetings Non-management directors of each listed The chairman should hold meetings with the nonThe independent non-executive directors meet company must meet at regularly scheduled executive directors without the executive directors without executive directors present at least executive sessions without management present.
and, if that group includes directors who are not independent, listed companies should at least once a year schedule an executive session including only independent directors.
Committees US companies are required to have a The Company is required to have a nomination The Company has a Nomination Committee.
nominating corporate governance committee but not a corporate governance The Board as a whole is responsible for the committee.
In addition to identifying committee.
corporate governance of the Group and individuals qualified to become Board oversees this through reports to the Board members, this committee must develop and its Committees.
and recommend to the Board a set of corporate governance principles.
Code of business conduct and ethics Companies are required to adopt and Not required under the Code.
The Company has adopted a Business Ethics disclose a code of business conduct and Code to which all employees are bound and ethics for directors, officers and employees, a Code of Ethics for senior management, to and promptly disclose any waivers of the comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. code for directors or executive officers.
Shareholder approval of equity-compensation plans Shareholders must be given the opportunity Shareholder approval is necessary for certain All new equity-compensation plans or to vote on all equity-compensation plans equity-compensation plans and significant amendments to existing plans that are required and material revisions to those plans, with changes thereto, subject to certain exceptions.
to be approved by shareholders under the Code limited exceptions.
Detailed definitions of The Code does not provide a detailed definition are put to shareholders for approval.
material revisions are provided by NYSE.
or explanation of what are considered to be significant changes.
By order of the Board John McFarlane Chairman 6 March 2013
