Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Governance: Audit Committee Report Allan Hirst, Chairman of the Board Audit Committee, gives his personal view of the Board Audit Committees activities during 2012 Allan Hirst Chairman of Audit Committee Chairmans Overview In 2012, we heavily focused on the enhancement and close Other attendees at Committee meetings from time to oversight of our internal audit and compliance functions, time include the Chief Executive Director, the Finance which has resulted in a fully integrated control framework.
Director, the Head of Internal Audit and the Head of We addressed staffing of both the internal audit and Compliance of the Bank.
The external auditor attends compliance departments of the Bank and provided all the majority of meetings and the Committee also holds necessary resources to ensure that each department is regular private sessions with the Head of Internal Audit, better equipped to deliver fully on its objectives.
the Head of Compliance and the external auditor.
These sessions, which are not attended by management, allow A detailed description of the Audit Committees the Committee to discuss any issues of concern in more responsibilities and effectiveness is provided in detail and directly with the auditteams.
In summary, the Committees role is to: Who is on the Audit Committee and what monitor the integrity of the Groups financial reporting are its responsibilities?
and satisfy itself that any significant financial Membership of the Committee and attendance at meetings judgements made by management are sound: held in 2012 are shown in the table below.
Each member monitor the Groups internal controls, including internal role of the Committee has a depth of expertise and, financial controls: collectively, the Committee has considerable financial monitor and review the activities and performance of and financial services experience on which to draw.
theinternal and external auditor, including monitoring The biographies and qualifications of the members of their independence, objectivity and compliance with the Audit Committee are set out on pages 68 to 69 the Groups policy on non-audit services: of this Annual Report.
engage with and ensure effective communication with the Board, Head of Internal Audit, the external auditor Meetings Eligible to Meetings and shareholders: Member Independent Attend Attended review and monitor conflicts of interests for each Allan Hirst Chairman Yes 9 9 Director: and monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups David Morrison Yes 9 8 policies and procedures relating to compliance, Kaha Kiknavelidze Yes 9 8 whistleblowing and fraud.
The Committees full Terms of Reference are available Secretary fromthe corporate governance section of our website, Kate Bennett Rea, on at http: www.
co. uk en corporate-governance behalf of KB Rea Ltd. Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 77 Governance: Audit Committee Report continued The Committees policy on tax advisory services is to not How did the Audit Committee discharge use the auditor unless there is a very strong case for not its responsibilities in 2012?
If non-audit services are Financial Reporting undertaken by the auditor, the Committee receives a Over the course of 2012, the Committee considered the quarterly report on such non-audit services so that it can financial control framework within the Group.
We have monitor the types of services being provided and the fees discussed and sought assurance that the effects on the incurred.
On an annual basis, the Audit Committee reviews Groups business of the continued volatility in financial the Group policy on the provision of non-audit services in markets including reduced supply of credit are being order to ensure compliance with its terms.
We have also considered impairment generally and compliance with International Financial A breakdown of the fees paid to the auditor for non-audit Reporting Standards within the Group.
The Committee work may be found in Note 24 of the Consolidated hasalso considered managements recommendations in Financial Statements.
respect of provisions for bad and doubtful debts and any Further details of the non-audit services that are prohibited other provisions for losses and charges as reported in the or allowed under our policy can be found on our website, Groups half-year and full-year results.
We also considered at http: www.
co. uk en corporate-governance managements assessment in determining that the going concern basis for preparing those financial statements was Oversight of Internal Audit and External Audit appropriate and are satisfied that we have considered for Internal Audit disclosure all material relevant issues that have been raised We are responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of by management during the year.
theinternal audit function and ensuring it is adequately resourced and focused on the right issues.
We also Internal Control review and approve the annual Internal Audit plan.
The Code requires the Board to at least annually conduct a review of the adequacy of the Groups systems of internal During 2012, we received regular reports from Internal control and report to shareholders that it has done so.
Audit, which set out the Internal Audit functions view The Board has undertaken a full review of all the aspects ofthecontrol environment and performance against of the Turnbull Guidance for Directors, as revised in keyindicators.
We have also reviewed and monitored October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance under which the managements responsiveness to Internal Audits findings Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal and recommendations.
We also specifically evaluated the control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
resources available to the Internal Audit function and any adjustments to be made to the Internal Audit plan, including Our role is to carefully review the effectiveness of the changes to methodology.
Groups risk management systems and internal controls.
We do this by reviewing reports on control issues from Internal Audits self-assessment of conformance, which theinternal audit and compliance functions of the Group.
wereviewed in the fourth quarter of 2012, evidenced the During 2012, we conducted a review of the effectiveness fact that the function generally conforms to the standards ofthe Groups risk management systems and internal set by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
We have also discussed control environment External Audit issues, their root causes and managements response It is our responsibility to monitor the performance, andfollow-up activities.
In addition, we work to ensure objectivity and independence of the external auditor thatthe resourcing requirements of both the internal audit andrecommend to the Board the appointment or and compliance functions are met so as to enable each re-appointment or removal of the external auditor.
department to deliver on its objectives.
We also agree the auditplan with the external auditor Objectivity and Independence of the External Auditor to ensure that the areasof focus are appropriate.
One of our key responsibilities is to monitor and review the Ernst & Young LLP E&Y was appointed as our Group objectivity and independence of our external auditor.
This statutory auditor by shareholders at our 2012 AGM, includes having in place a policy to govern the non-audit following a tender process and subsequent Committee and services that may be provided by the external auditor, Board recommendation.
During the course of the year, we which sets out the circumstances in which the external have discussed with E&Y the business and financial risks auditor may be permitted to undertake non-audit services.
and have sought assurance that these risks have been Allowable services are pre-approved up to 100,000.
Any properly addressed in the audit strategy and plan that permissible non-audit service that exceeds this threshold has been reviewed by the Committee.
We have sought requires approval from the Committee and must be robustly assurance and are comfortable that no undue pressure has justified and, if appropriate, tendered, before it is approved.
been asserted on the level of audit fees so as to ensure that thereis no risk to audit work being conducted effectively.
78 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information We conducted a review of the performance and effectiveness Looking ahead to 2013 of E&Y, which included an assessment of its independence For 2013, the Committees areas of focus will continue to and objectivity.
Over the course of the year, the Committee beinfluenced by the impact of the challenging economic has scrutinised the audit process and the quality and environment and political climate in Georgia.
The Committee experience of the audit partners and senior team members will continue to enhance the Groups systems, processes and engaged in the audit.
controls in order to ensure effective operation consistently throughout the Group, in line with the Groupsgrowth and In conducting the review, the Committee was seeking to in response to changes in regulatory requirements.
The gain assurance that E&Y has conducted a comprehensive, Committee will also continue to scrutinise the audit process appropriate and effective audit.
Following such review, the to ensure satisfaction with the quality and coverage of the Committee found that E&Y was considered to be effective, work done by Internal Audit and the Groups statutory auditor.
objective and independent in its role as Group statutory auditor.
The Committee will recommend to the Board and to shareholders that E&Y should be re-appointed as the Groups auditor at the 2013 AGM.
On a regular basis the Committee meets separately with Allan Hirst E&Y, the Deputy CEO, Finance, Head of Internal Audit and Chairman Head of Compliance.
These meetings allow Committee Board Audit Committee members to discuss freely matters relating tothe statutory 10 April 2013 auditors remit and issues arising from theaudit.
Effectiveness The performance of the Committee is reviewed each yearas part of the Board Effectiveness Review, both bytheCommittee itself and by the Board as a whole.
Incarrying out this review, the Committee considered bestpractice recommendations.
The 2012 review concluded that the Committee continues to operate effectively.
Areas where we could enhance our performance include ensuring that the form and content ofinformation presented to the Committee is appropriate given the Committees busy agenda and we have put together an action plan to address the findings.
Ongoing Training and Development Over the course of the year, the Committee received ongoing training from the Company Secretary, and other professional firms, including Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer.
These sessions covered control effectiveness, financial reporting processes as well as bestpractice.
The Audit Committee will continue its ongoing training to further enhance its effectiveness.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 79
