Governance: Nomination Committee Report Neil Janin, Chairman of the Board Nomination Committee, gives his personal view of the Board Nomination Committees activities during 2012 Neil Janin Chairman of Nomination Committee Chairmans Overview In 2012, key highlights of our work included: In summary, the Committees role is to: the development of succession plans for the Chairman, review the composition of the Board and Board Chief Executive Officer, all non-executive Directors and Committees to ensure they are appropriately constituted key senior managers: and balanced in terms of skills and experience and to evaluation of several candidates for new independent recommend to the Board the appointment of new Directorial roles: and Directors: consideration of the issue of diversity, in light of the Lord develop and consider succession plans for the Davies Report on gender diversity of boards.
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, non-executive Directors and key senior managerial roles: Who is on the Nomination Committee and monitor issues and developments: and what are its responsibilities?
agree the process for the annual Board Effectiveness Membership of the Committee and attendance at Review and track the progress of any actions arising.
meetings held in 2012 are shown in the table.
The Committees full Terms of Reference are available from the section of our website, Meetings Eligible to Meetings http: www.
co. uk en corporate-governance Member Independent Attend Attended Neil Janin Chairman N A 3 3 David Morrison Yes 3 3 Allan Hirst Yes33 Alasdair Breach Yes 3 3 Kaha Kiknavelidze Yes 3 3 Ian Hague No33 Hanna Loikkanen No 3 3 Secretary Kate Bennett Rea, on behalf of KB Rea Ltd. 90 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Throughout the year, we have undertaken training in order How did the Nomination Committee to remain up to date on significant developments and how discharge its responsibilities in 2012?
these might impact the Group.
The Committee reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board and the Board Committees, To ensure that the Committee is operating effectively, we looking at the need to refresh the Board, the balance carried out our Committee review at the time of the Board anddiversity of skills and experience on the Board and Effectiveness Review.
The Committee is reviewed by the planning ahead for new Board appointments as well as members themselves as well as by the Board as a whole.
We undertook a skills analysis and Following the review, the Committee was found to be considered the skills that are likely to be required in the operating effectively.
In light of this analysis, we have begun to interview Looking ahead to 2013 candidates for non-executive Directorial roles.
For 2013, the Committee will continue to focus on The Committee also discussed and developed succession succession planning and Board and Committee plans for the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, nonrefreshment.
We will also look to have greater visibility of executive Directors and key senior managerial roles.
As potential candidates for key senior positions with the Group.
most of our Directors have served between three and six We will continue to review and monitor Board and Board years, we will look to refresh the Board over the next few Committee composition against our skills and experience years, based on the skills required for the Group.
As part of requirements and diversity guidance.
this discussion, the Committee reviewed and discussed the outcome of the Lord Davies Report on the proportion of women on boards and diversity in general.
The Group has historically placed a high emphasis on diversity and will Neil Janin continue to do so looking forward.
Geographic and gender Chairman diversity together with key technical expertise in banking, Board Nomination Committee risk, accountancy, finance, technology and international 10 April 2013 business all form core components of our Board succession planning.
Balancing all of these factors to maintain an effective Board is a delicate matter and we do not believe that imposing quotas is appropriate in this context.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 91
