Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Governance: Corporate Governance Report Board Chairman, One Executive Director and Six Non-Executive Directors Board Committee Oversight Board Nomination Committee Board Audit Committee Board Remuneration Committee Chairman, six non-executive Three independent non-executive Two independent non-executive Directors, four of whom Directors Directors and the Chairman are independent Management Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer The Board is committed to high standards of corporate The Board governance and has implemented a framework for corporate governance which it considers to be appropriate What is the role of the Board?
This framework is reviewed on an annual basis Our principal duty, collectively, is to promote the long-term as part of the performance evaluation process and will success of the Group by directing management in creating be reviewed in light of any changes to BGHs strategy.
and delivering sustainable shareholder value.
We do this by The Corporate Governance Code the Code, published setting the strategy and overseeing its implementation by in June 2010 by the Financial Reporting Council, applies management.
While our ultimate focus is long-term growth, to disclosures in this statement.
The Code is available we also need to deliver on short-term objectives and we to download from www.
uk seek to ensure that management strikes the right balance The Financial Conduct Authority requires all listed between the two.
companies to disclose how they have complied with We are mindful of our wider obligations and consider the provisions of the Code.
This Corporate Governance theimpact our decisions will have on the Groups various statement, together with the Directors Responsibility stakeholders, such as our employees, our shareholders, Statement, the Going Concern Statement and the our customers and clients, the environment and our Statement of Compliance all of which are set out community as a whole.
In setting and monitoring the on page 95, indicate how BGH has complied with execution of our strategy, we aim to ensure that we maintain the principles of good governance of the Code an effective system of internal control and that management and its requirements on internal control.
maintains an effective risk management and oversight process across the Group, so that growth is delivered inacontrolled and sustainable way.
In order to ensure that we meet our responsibilities, specific key decisions have been reserved for approval by the Board.
These include decisions on the Groups strategy, approval of risk appetite and capital and liquidity matters, Board membership, financial results and governance issues.
A full formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to the Board can be found on our website, at http: www.
co. uk en corporate-governance Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 73 Governance: Corporate Governance Report continued To assist us in carrying out our functions and to ensure there is independent oversight of financial, audit and internal control issues, review of remuneration, share plans and other incentives as well as oversight and review of Board and executive succession planning, the Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board Committees.
Each Board Committee has agreed Terms of Reference, which are approved by the Board.
Copies of each Committees Terms of Reference can be found on ourwebsite, at http: www.
co. uk en corporate-governance The Board has decided that all decisions regarding risk andrisk management will remain at the Board level as opposed to being delegated to a separate Risk Committee.
This arrangement has proven to be successful, allowing each Director to provide meaningful input into the risk management of the Group.
The Chairman of each Board Committee reports to the Board on the matters discussed at Board Committee meetings.
You will find later in this section reports fromtheChairman of each Board Committee on the Committees activities in 2012 and priorities for 2013.
How does the Board operate?
We normally meet five times a year.
We meet more frequently when the need arises and, in 2012, we arranged and held 10 additional meetings at short notice to discuss other matters relevant to the Board.
In total, we met as a Board 15 times during the year.
All Directors make every effort to attend each meeting, whether in person, by telephone or by video conference, unless circumstances, such as illness or prior commitments prevent them from doing so.
In such instances, they are able to provide theChairman ahead of the meeting with any views or comments they may have on the matters to be discussed.
The Chairman also seeks input from the non-executive Directors ahead of each Board meeting in order to ensure that any particular matters raised by non-executive Directors are discussed at the meeting.
In addition, the Chairman meets with the Company Secretary after each meeting to agree the actions to be followed up and to discuss how effective the meeting was.
Each Director committed an appropriate amount of time to their duties in 2012 and the non-executive Directors met the time commitment specified in their letters of appointment.
Details of Board meeting attendance in 2012 are as follows: Scheduled Additional Meetings Scheduled Meetings Additional Eligible to Meetings Eligible to Meetings Board Attendance Independent Attend Attended Attend Attended Chairman Neil Janin N A 5 5 10 10 Executive Director Irakli Gilauri No 5 5 10 10 Non-Executive Directors David Morrison Yes 5 5 10 10 Allan Hirst Yes 5 5 10 10 Alasdair Breach Yes 5 5 10 9 Kaha Kiknavelidze Yes 5 5 10 9 Ian Hague No 5 4 10 10 Hanna Loikkanen No 5 5 10 10 Company Secretary Kate Bennett Rea, on behalf of KB Rea Ltd.
Please note that the members of the Board of BGH are identical to the members of the Supervisory Board of the Bank.
Over the course of 2012, 54 meetings of the Supervisory Board were held in person or via teleconference.
74 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Director Independence What makes our Board effective?
We consider non-executive Director independence Our Board has primary responsibility for ensuring that, as on a bi-annual basis as well as part of each Directors acollective body, it has the appropriate skills, knowledge performance evaluation.
The Board is satisfied that the and experience to perform its role effectively.
We take an majority of our non-executive Directors are independent integrated approach to effective corporate governance, and that therefore there is a balance of independent to which is underpinned byopenness, transparency non-independent Directors in the context of the Group.
and accountability, as well as constructive challenge and collaboration.
Evaluation of Board Performance In order to improve the effectiveness of the Board, Key to ensuring the Boards effectiveness is enabling eachBoard Committee and each individual Director, Directors full access to information and management weundertake on an annual basis a formal and rigorous across the Group.
The Chairman and non-executive effectiveness review.
Directors frequently conduct site visits and interact with staff at all levels.
This gives them opportunities to see the The Board believes that it continues to operate effectively.
culture and values of the organisation in action and also There is a high level of engagement from our non-executive provides context to the formal information that they receive Directors and meaningful interaction with the Chief for Board meetings.
Executive Officer and senior management.
In the 2012 Board effectiveness review, both the non-executive The Board consistently probes, questions and explores Directors and executive Director commented that the thelogic behind management actions both in formal Board Boarddynamics remain conducive to the provision and meetings and other informal interactions.
The Chairman receipt of constructive challenge within the context of our plays a particularly important role by ensuring that all Board unitary board approach.
members have the opportunity to contribute fully in all Board discussions.
Given the collaborative nature of the The results from the 2012 Board effectiveness review Board, Board members feel that they can speak their minds acknowledged that the Board Committee structure is freely and constructively challenge management as well as effective, with excellent Committee chairmanship and that other members of the Board.
This atmosphere enhances appropriate feedback is provided to the Board as a whole.
It was recognised that the Board as a whole has been able to focus more broadly on strategic issues as a result of the Board Size, Composition and Qualification increased delegation to the Board Committees.
In 2013, We have determined that the optimum Board size for BGH wewill continue to focus upon and evolve our approach to is seven to 10 members.
We currently have eight Board ensuring these critical connections between the Board and members: the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and its Committees.
A list of individual Directors and their biographies and qualifications are set out on pages In addition to reviewing the Boards overall effectiveness, 68 to 69.
Details of Board Committee membership are each Director discussed his or her self-assessment with set out onpage 76 of this Annual Report.
the Chairman on a one-to-one basis.
These discussions included details of time commitment including, where The size and composition of a board and the qualifications relevant, the potential impact of outside interests held by of its members have a significant impact on how effective each Director, other broader contributions to the Board that board is.
We regularly review the balance of skills aswell as desired future training and development.
Future wehave on the Board, as well as the Boards size and engagement plans were discussed, providing a guideline composition, both in terms of what we need now and what for the activities that Director intends to undertake over the we might need to be successful in the future.
Our aim is to next 12 to 18 months.
ensure that we have the right mix for constructive group discussion and, ultimately, effective Board decisions.
Succession Planning and Board Appointments We believe that effective succession planning mitigates We recognise the benefits of diversity on the Board and therisks associated with the departure or absence of thecurrent members of the Board have the wide range of well-qualified and experienced individuals.
We recognise skills and experience required to govern the Group.
Our this and our aim is to ensure that the Board and Board includes one woman and its members collectively management are always well resourced, with the right represent five different nationalities.
We welcomed and people in terms of skills and experience, in order to comprehensively discussed Lord Davies report entitled effectively and successfully deliver our strategy.
We have commenced a full review recognise that, even though new faces bring fresh ideas ofour Boards composition, looking forward to 2015 and perspective to how things are done, continued tenure andbeyond.
This review is being facilitated through our brings a depth of Group-specific knowledge that is Nomination Committee.
Geographic and gender diversity important to retain.
together with key technical expertise in banking, risk, accountancy, finance, technology and international business will form core components of our Board succession planning.
Balancing all of these factors to maintain an effective Board is a delicate matter and we do not believe that imposing quotas is appropriate in this context.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 75 Governance: Corporate Governance Report continued We have a number of Directors that have served between Director Re-election three and six years on the Board.
Given the complexity of At our 2012 AGM, in line with the Code, we moved to the banking, the volatile macroeconomic environment and practice of proposing each Director for annual re-election changing political landscape in Georgia, we believe that it at BGHs AGM and will follow this practice again in 2013. isimportant to retain a core of Directors with long-standing Following a performance evaluation of each Director and knowledge of the Group while still ensuring that the Boards the Board as a whole, we can confirm that all the Directors composition is regularly refreshed.
During 2012, the Board submitting themselves for re-election are considered by through its Nomination Committee focused heavily on its theBoard to be fully effective.
future composition with an emphasis both on executive and Board induction and professional development non-executive succession planning.
We have developed a We have a Director induction and ongoing development succession plan aimed at ensuring a smooth transition programme in place that is tailored to the needs of through to 2015 and beyond.
All Directors most recently undertook The Board Nomination Committee is responsible for both comprehensive training in February 2012 at the time of executive and non-executive Director succession planning listing and ongoing training is provided.
At each Director and recommends new appointments to the Board.
There evaluation, the Chairman and Director agree a tailored is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the development programme and the Chairman reviews the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
More detail performance of each Director annually.
Delivery against on the role of the Board Nomination Committee is given theagreed development programme is a key component in the report below.
The Chairman and non-executive Directors are supported by dedicated corporate secretariat Non-executive Directors Terms of Appointment resources and through specialist advice on corporate On appointment, our non-executive Directors are given a governance matters.
letter of appointment that sets out the terms and conditions of their directorship, including the fees payable and the Board Committees expected time commitment.
Each non-executive Director The Board currently has three primary Committees: is expected to commit approximately three to four days theAudit Committee, the Remuneration Committee per month to the role.
An additional time commitment is andtheNomination Committee.
The Audit Committee required to fulfil their roles as Board Committee members isresponsible for the oversight and review of financial, and or Board Committee chairmen, as applicable.
We are auditand internal disclosure issues.
The Remuneration confident that all non-executive Directors dedicate the Committee is tasked with the oversight and review of amount of time necessary to contribute to the effectiveness remuneration, share plans and other incentives.
Nomination Committee is responsible for the oversight andreview of Board and executive succession planning.
Directors external activities and conflicts of interest Our Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in Our Board has made a conscious decision to delegate a which they have or may have interests that conflict with broader range of issues to the Board Committees in order those of the Group, unless that conflict is first authorised by for the Board to focus more heavily on strategy, but has the Directors.
This includes potential conflicts that may arise ensured effective connections between the Committees when a Director takes up a position with another company.
and the Board so as to ensure openness and transparency.
We recognise the importance of the experience, value and Current Membership of the Board Committees knowledge that can be brought to the Board by Directors Audit Remuneration Nomination undertaking other roles or activities.
Our Directors are Committee Committee Committee obliged to obtain authorisation prior to doing so and it is their Neil Janin Member Chairman responsibility to ensure that they will be able to meet the time commitment we expect of them and that the additional David Morrison Member Member Member role will not impact their effectiveness as a Director.
Allan Hirst Chairman Member Alasdair Breach Chairman Member Our Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts, and we have a comprehensive Kaha Kiknavelidze Member Member procedure in place to deal with any actual or potential Ian Hague Member conflict of interest.
The Board takes into consideration Hanna Loikkanen Member all the circumstances and deals with each appointment on itsindividual merit.
All potential conflicts approved by the Board are recorded in an Interests Register, which is reviewed bi-annually by the Board.
Following a review of the Interests Register in 2012, the Board concluded that all the potential conflicts as registered have been considered thoroughly and appropriately.
76 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012
