The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 23 Report of the Directors continued h Principal risks and uncertainties market price risk, currency risk and interest rate risk, The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company liquidity risk, and credit and counterparty risk.
Details of and has put in place a schedule of investment limits and these risks and how they are managed are contained in restrictions, appropriate to the Companys investment Note 17 to the Financial Statements on pages 49 to 57. objectives and policy, in order to mitigate these risks as far as Operational practicable.
The principal risks which have been identied and Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers accounting, the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these are as follows: dealing or payment systems or the custodians records Portfolio and market could prevent the accurate reporting and monitoring of the Although the Company invests almost entirely in securities Companys financial position.
The Company is also exposed that are quoted on recognised markets, share prices may to the operational risk that one or more of its suppliers move sharply.
The companies in which investments are may not provide the required level of service.
Details of made may operate unsuccessfully, or fail entirely.
A fall in how the Board monitors the services provided by the the market value of the Companys portfolio would have Manager and its other suppliers, and the key elements an adverse effect on shareholders funds.
The Board designed to provide effective internal control, are explained reviews the portfolio each month and mitigates this risk further in the internal controls section on pages 28 and 29. through diversication of investments in the portfolio.
Investment activity and performance Corporate Governance Statement An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in a Application of the AIC Codes Principles terms of asset allocation or the level of gearing may result The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance in underperformance against the Companys benchmark of the Companys affairs.
6 of the UK Listing index and the companies in its peer group.
The Board Rules requires all listed companies to disclose how they have monitors investment performance at each Board meeting applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the and regularly reviews the extent of its borrowings.
UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code.
As an investment trust, most of the Companys day-to-day Tax and regulatory risks responsibilities are delegated to third parties, the Company A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 has no employees and the directors are all non-executive.
could lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in capital gains realised within the portfolio being subject to Thus, not all the provisions of the UK Code are directly corporation tax.
A breach of the UKLA Listing Rules could applicable to the Company.
result in suspension of the Companys shares, while a The Financial Reporting Council the FRC confirmed in breach of the Companies Act 2006 could lead to criminal September 2010 that it remained the view of the FRC that by proceedings, or financial or reputational damage.
The following the Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Company must also ensure compliance with the listing rules of the New Zealand Stock Exchange.
The Manager Companies produced by the Association of Investment has contracted to provide investment, company secretarial, Companies the AIC Guide, boards of investment administration and accounting services through qualied companies should fully meet their obligations in relation to professionals.
The Board receives internal control reports the UK Code and paragraph 9.8.
The produced by the Manager on a quarterly basis, which AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code, as confirmed regulatory compliance during the year.
explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Code, as well as setting out additional principles Financial and recommendations on issues that are of specic relevance By its nature as an investment trust, the Companys business activities are exposed to market risk including to investment trusts.
24 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 Report of the Directors continued The Board of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC believes that audit function.
The directors annually review whether a reporting against the AIC Code by reference to the AIC function equivalent to an internal audit is needed and will Guide provides the most appropriate information to continue to monitor its systems of internal controls in order shareholders and has therefore followed the principles and to provide assurance that they operate as intended.
recommendations set out in the AIC Code.
Copies of the AIC d Directors Code and the AIC Guide can be found on Board composition www.
The Board currently consists of six directors, all of whom are The directors believe that this Annual Report and Financial non-executive.
Statements presents a balanced and understandable The names and biographies of the directors holding ofce assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
at the date of this report are listed on page 19.
With the b New Zealand Listing exception of Susan Inglis, who joined the Board on It should be noted that the UK Codes of Corporate 1 November 2012, all the current directors served on the Governance may materially differ from the New Zealand Stock Board throughout the financial year.
Exchanges corporate governance rules and principles of the Directors appointment, retirement and rotation Corporate Best Practice Code.
The Board may appoint directors to the Board without c Statement of compliance shareholder approval.
Any director so appointed must The AIC Code comprises 21 principles.
The Board attaches stand for appointment by the shareholders at the next importance to the matters set out in the AIC Code and lists AGM in accordance with the articles of association.
below how the AIC Codes principles have been applied.
The total number of directors shall not be less than three nor more than eight.
The directors believe that during the year under review they have complied with the provisions of the AIC Code, and Under the articles of association, shareholders may remove insofar as they apply to the Companys business, with the a director before the end of his or her term by passing a provisions of the UK Code except as noted below.
A special resolution is passed if more than 75 per cent of the votes cast, in person or by proxy, The role of chief executive are in favour of the resolution.
Since all directors are non-executive and day-to-day management responsibilities are sub-contracted to the The Companys articles of association provide that one Manager, the Company does not have a Chief Executive.
third of directors retire by rotation each year.
Directors are Executive directors remuneration also required to retire if they have served more than nine As the Board has no executive directors, it is not required years on the Board, but may then offer themselves for to comply with the principles of the UK Code in respect of annual re-appointment.
Notwithstanding these executive directors remuneration and does not have a requirements, the UK Code requires all directors of FTSE Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are detailed in 350 Companies to retire annually.
Therefore all the the Directors Remuneration Report on page 32. directors will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.
Internal audit function As the Company delegates to third parties its day-to-day Board independence and tenure policy operations and has no employees, the Board has The Board is conscious of the need to maintain continuity determined that there is no requirement for an internal on the Board, and believes that retaining directors with The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 25 Report of the Directors continued sufficient experience of both the Company and the past and current experience of various disciplines while also markets is of great benefit to shareholders.
The Board believes that each of the directors exercises Directors remuneration independent judgement and that length of service does A report on directors remuneration is on page 32. not diminish the contribution from a director: indeed a Directors interests in shares directors experience and extensive knowledge of the Ordinary shares of 25p 31 October 1 November Company is a positive benefit to the Board.
Moreover, 2012 2011 long-serving directors are less likely to take a short-term With beneficial interest: view.
This view is supported by the AIC Code.
Richard Brewster 74,483 73,733 The directors biographies, on page 19, demonstrate their Richard Burns 60,000 60,000 breadth of investment, commercial and professional Richard Killingbeck 30,000 30,000 experience relevant to their positions as directors on the Peter Sullivan Board of the Company.
Matthew Thorne 23,750 23,750 Non beneficial interest: There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of Richard Burns 33,000 33,000 the year in which a director of the Company is or was materially interested and which is or was significant in Or date of appointment if later.
Susan Inglis joined the Board after the year end.
relation to the Companys business.
No director has a service contract with the Company.
No director is entitled The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the to compensation for loss of ofce on the takeover of the Company at the beginning and end of the financial year Company.
are shown in the preceding table.
Since the year end, The directors annually review their independence.
The Richard Brewster acquired a further 174 shares due to the Nominations Committee has considered the continued reinvestment of dividends.
appointment of Richard Brewster and Richard Killingbeck Directors conicts of interest who have served on the Board for over nine years.
They Directors have a duty to avoid situations where they have, or have no other links to the Manager: in addition they have could have, a direct or indirect interest that conicts, or a wide range of other interests and are not dependent in possibly could conict, with the Companys interests.
With any way on the Company itself and the Nominations effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 the Committee concluded that they continue to make a Act, has allowed directors of public companies to valuable contribution to the Board and, notwithstanding authorise such conicts and potential conicts, where length of service, they remain independent in character appropriate, but only if the articles of association contain a and judgement.
The Act also allows the articles of Board succession and policy for recruitment association to contain other provisions for dealing with The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure directors conicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
that the Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by There are two safe harbours either the situation cannot the appointment of new directors with the skills and reasonably be regarded as likely to give rise to a conict of experience necessary, in particular, to replace those lost by interest or the matter has been authorised in advance by the directors retirements.
Directors must be able to directors.
The Companys Articles of Association give the demonstrate their commitment to the Company, including directors the relevant authority required to deal with conicts in terms of time.
The Board seeks to encompass relevant of interest.
26 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 Report of the Directors continued Directors indemnity Each of the directors has provided a statement of all conicts Directors and ofcers liability insurance cover is in place in of interest and potential conicts of interest applicable to respect of the directors.
The Companys articles of the Company.
A register of conicts of interest has been association provide, subject to the provisions of UK compiled and approved by the Board.
The directors have legislation, an indemnity for directors in respect of costs also all undertaken to notify the Chairman as soon as they which they may incur relating to the defence of any become aware of any new potential conicts of interest that proceedings brought against them arising out of their would need to be approved by the Board and added to the positions as directors, in which they are acquitted or register, which will be reviewed annually by the Board.
judgement is given in their favour by the Court.
The directors advise the Chairman and the Company e The Board Secretary in advance of any proposed external appointment Chairman and new directors will be asked to submit a list of potential The Chairman, Richard Brewster, is an independent nonsituations falling within the conicts of interest provisions executive director who has no conicting relationships.
of the Act in advance of joining the Board.
The Chairman determines whether the relevant appointment causes a Senior Independent Director conict or potential conict of interest and should Richard Killingbeck is the Senior Independent Director.
therefore be considered by the Board.
Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees Only directors who have no interest in the matter being The Board has appointed a number of Committees as set out considered are able to participate in the Board approval below.
Copies of the terms of reference which clearly define the responsibilities and duties for each Committee are process.
In deciding whether to approve a conict of available on the website, www.
com, interest, directors act in a way they consider, in good faith, or on request and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
will be most likely to promote the Companys success in taking such a decision.
The Board can impose limits or Audit Committee conditions when giving authorisation if the directors The Audit Committee comprises Matthew Thorne, Richard consider this to be appropriate.
Killingbeck, Peter Sullivan and Susan Inglis, all of whom are considered independent.
The Chairman of the Audit The Board has reviewed its conicts of interest procedures Committee is Matthew Thorne.
The Board has satisfied during the year and confirms that its powers of authorisation itself that at least one of the Committees members has of conicts has operated effectively since they were recent and relevant financial experience and the directors introduced on 1 October 2008 and that its procedures for biographies are shown on page 19.
The Committee has the approval of conicts of interest have been followed by written terms of reference, which clearly define its all the directors.
Directors professional development The Committee meets at least three times each year to review When a new director is appointed he or she is offered a the internal financial and non-financial controls, to consider training seminar which is held by the Manager.
Directors and recommend to the Board for approval the contents of are also provided on a regular basis with key information the Half-Year and Annual Report & Financial Statements to on the Companys activities including regulatory and shareholders and to review the accounting policies and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes significant financial reporting judgements.
Representatives of affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the Board the Managers internal audit and compliance departments as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant attend these meetings at the Chairmans request.
In addition, training and industry seminars.
the Committee reviews the auditors independence, The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 27 Report of the Directors continued objectivity and effectiveness, appointment and remuneration Management Engagement Committee see note 6 on page 44, the quality of the services of the The Management Engagement Committees membership service providers to the Company, and, together with the comprises all the members of the Board.
The Chairman of Manager, reviews the Companys compliance with financial the Committee is Richard Brewster.
The Committee meets reporting and regulatory requirements.
From 30 April 2011, at least annually to review the investment management audit committees have been required to formulate a written agreement with the Companys Manager and to review policy on the provision of non-audit services by the the services provided by the Manager.
The Audit Nominations Committee Committee has formulated a policy on the provision of nonThe Nominations Committee comprises Richard Brewster, audit services by the Companys auditors and has determined Richard Killingbeck and Peter Sullivan.
The Chairman that the Companys appointed auditors will not be of the Nominations Committee is Richard Brewster.
The considered for the provision of non-audit services, such as Committee, which meets at least annually, reviews the accounting and preparation of the financial statements, Boards size and structure and is responsible for Board internal audit and custody.
The auditors may, if required, succession planning.
The other members of the Board may provide non-audit services relating to a review of the attend meetings of the Nominations Committee by invitation.
Companys half year report and a review of the calculation of any performance fee provision.
All other non-audit services Charities Committee will be judged on a case-by-case basis.
The Charities Committee was dissolved during 2011 and any requests for charitable donations are considered by the During the year the Company engaged Board.
During the year no donations were made 2011:  in Taiwan for tax compliance 1,500. services in respect of the Taiwanese investments as Board attendance required by the law in Taiwan.
The directors have ensured Currently, the Board meets seven times per annum and is that the provision of this non-audit service did not impact responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys the independence of the audit.
There were no other nonaffairs.
Certain strategic issues have been considered at audit services provided by the auditors during the year.
various meetings of the Board and additional meetings of The Audit Committee remains satisfied with the the Board may be arranged as required.
The Board has a effectiveness of the audit provided by formal schedule of matters specically reserved for its  LLP, the Companys auditors, and decision which are categorised under various headings therefore has not considered it necessary to date to require including strategy, management, structure, capital, an independent tender process.
This years audit is the financial reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset second year that the current audit partner has been in place.
allocation, share price discount, contracts, policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, performance, corporate Representatives of  LLP attend the governance and Board membership and appointments.
In Committee meeting at which the Annual Report and order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, all Financial Statements are reviewed and are given the directors have full and timely access to relevant opportunity to speak to the Committee members without information.
At each meeting, the Board reviews the the presence of the representatives of the Manager.
Companys investment performance and considers financial The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present analyses and other reports of an operational nature.
The at the AGM to deal with questions relating to the Board monitors compliance with the Companys objectives Financial Statements.
and is responsible for setting asset allocation parameters, 28 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 Report of the Directors continued investment and gearing limits within which the Manager Board to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for has discretion to act.
The Board thus supervises the improving the functioning and performance of the Board and the Committees, the contribution of individual management of the investment portfolio, which is directors, as well as building on and developing individual contractually delegated to the Manager.
The Board has and collective strengths.
In accordance with the UK Code, responsibility for the approval of unquoted investments the Company is required to engage an external facilitator and all investments in in-house funds managed or advised for the Board evaluation every three years and will do so by the Manager.
It also has adopted a procedure for during 2013.
The evaluation for the year under review was directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take conducted internally.
independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The Board has direct access to company secretarial advice and services provided by the Manager which, through its The Chairman attends meetings of all the chairmen of the nominated representative, is responsible for ensuring that investment trust companies managed by the Manager: these the Board and Committee procedures are followed and meetings provide a forum to discuss a variety of relevant that applicable regulations are complied with.
During the matters and the Chairman reports on them to the Board.
year the Company has maintained insurance cover in The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees respect of legal action against the directors: this does not held during the year and the attendance of individual cover fraud, negligence or wilful default.
All directors attend the Annual g Internal controls General Meeting.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys systems Management of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Audit Nominations Engagement Board Committee Committee Committee These controls aim to ensure that assets of the Company are No.
of meetings 7 3 1 1 safeguarded, proper accounting records are maintained, and the financial information used within the business and for Richard Brewster 7 n a 1 1 publication is reliable.
Control of the risks identied, covering Richard Burns 6 n a n a 1 financial, operational, compliance and risk management, is Richard Killingbeck 7 3 1 1 embedded in the controls of the Company by a series of Matthew Thorne 7 3 n a 1 regular investment performance and attribution statements, Peter Sullivan 7 3 1 1 financial and risk analyses and Managers reports, and a The membership of each Committee is shown on page 19. quarterly control report.
Key risks have been identied and controls have been put in place to mitigate such risks, f Performance evaluation including those risks that are not directly the responsibility of The Company the Manager.
The effectiveness of the internal controls is The performance of the Company is considered in detail at assessed by the Managers compliance and risk departments each Board meeting.
on a continuing basis and is also reviewed by the Company.
The Board The Manager and the custodian maintain their own systems of In order to review the effectiveness of the Board, the internal controls and the Board and Audit Committee receive Committees and the individual directors, the Chairman has regular reports from the Manager.
The control systems are put in place and carried out a thorough appraisal process.
designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance This was implemented by way of a questionnaire and against material misstatement or loss, and to manage rather interviews with the Chairman.
In respect of the Chairman, than eliminate risk of failure to achieve objectives.
interviews were held between the directors and the Senior Independent Director.
The process is considered by the The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 29 Report of the Directors continued The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, The Board has reviewed the implications of the Bribery Act evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the 2010, which came into force on 1 July 2011 and confirmed its Company.
The process has been in place since 2000 and is zero tolerance of bribery and corruption in its business activities.
subject to regular review by the Board.
Up to the date of this It has sought and received assurances from its main contractors report, the process accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
and suppliers that they will maintain adequate safeguards to protect against any potentially illegal behaviour by their The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken an employees and agents.
annual review of the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control and the business risks have been analysed i Continued appointment of the Investment Manager and recorded in a risk map which is reviewed regularly.
The The Board reviews the performance of the Investment Manager Board receives each quarter from the Manager a formal report Manager at each Board meeting and the Management which details the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, Engagement Committee meets annually to review the including those that are not directly the responsibility of the continuing appointment of the Manager.
In the opinion of the Manager, and which reports the details of any known internal Directors the continued appointment of the Manager on the control failures.
The Board receives each year from the terms agreed is in the best interests of the Companys Manager a report on its internal controls which includes a shareholders as a whole.
The Manager has extensive investment report from the Managers reporting accountants on the control policies and procedures in operation.
management resources and wide experience in managing and administering investment companies.
The Board confirms that in the event of any significant failings or weakness identied from the annual review of the j Share capital and shareholders effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control, Share capital necessary actions would be taken to remedy them.
No At 31 October 2012 the Company had in issue 110,906,839 significant failings or weaknesses in respect of the Company ordinary shares of 25p each.
The voting rights of the ordinary were identied in the year under review.
shares on a poll are one vote for every four shares held.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys shares h Accountability and relationship with the Manager and there are no shares which carry specic rights with The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the regard to control of the Company.
The market price per share Financial Statements is set out on page 33, the Report of the at that date was 433.1p, giving the Company a market Independent Auditors on page 61 and the Statement of capitalisation of 480.3 million.
Total equity was 526.2 Going Concern on page 21. million, the net asset value per share at that date being 474.5p per share inclusive of retained revenue for the year.
The Board has delegated contractually to the Manager and Accordingly, the market price per share stood at a discount of other external third parties the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the 8.7% to the net asset value inclusive of retained revenue for safeguarding of the assets and the day-to-day accounting, the year.
The Company seeks shareholder authority annually company secretarial, administration and registration services.
to buy back its shares in the market for cancellation.
During Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper the year the Company bought back 145,000 of its ordinary consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the shares representing 0.1% of the called-up share capital as at services offered, including the control systems in operation in 31 October 2012 at an average discount of 13.4% for a so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
Since the end of the year and the date of this report no The Board receives and considers regular reports from the Manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to further ordinary shares have been bought back by the the Board as required.
30 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 Report of the Directors continued Substantial share interests At each AGM a presentation is made by the Manager Declarations of interests in the voting rights of the following the business of the meeting.
Shareholders have Company, at 31 October 2012, are set out below.
the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman and the Chairmen of the Committees of the Board at the AGM.
Shareholder % of voting rights All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
Investec Wealth & Investment Management 8.4 F&C Asset Management 5.0 It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Financial Statements and Notice of the AGM be issued to Since the year end, no changes in substantial share interests shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working days have been notied to the Company.
Shareholders wishing to lodge In addition, the Board is aware that, at 31 October 2012, questions in advance of the AGM are invited to do so by 13.7% of the issued share capital was held on behalf of writing to the Company Secretary at the address given on participants in the Halifax Share Dealing products run by the inside back cover.
At other times the Company Halifax Share Dealing Limited HSDL, which is now part responds to letters from shareholders on a range of issues.
In accordance with the General presentations to both shareholders and analysts arrangements made between HSDL and Henderson, the follow the announcement of the annual results.
All participants in the Halifax Share Dealing products are given meetings between the Manager and shareholders are the opportunity to instruct the nominee company of HSDL to reported to the Board.
exercise the voting rights appertaining to their shares in respect of all general meetings of the Company.
HSDL has k Corporate responsibility undertaken to instruct its nominee company to exercise the Responsible investment SEE statement voting rights of any shares held through the Halifax Share Responsible Investment is the term Henderson uses to cover Dealing products that have not been exercised by the its work on corporate governance and corporate individual participants in them.
It will do so by voting for or responsibility or social, environmental and ethical issues in against all resolutions to be put at all general meetings of the companies in which it invests on its clients behalf, the Company or by withholding votes on such resolutions across all funds.
In May 2005 Henderson became a founding pro rata to the aggregate voting instructions for each signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible resolution received from those participants who have Investment.
The Principles, developed under the auspices of chosen to exercise their voting rights.
the UN Secretary-General, are a voluntary and aspirational framework for incorporating environmental, social and Relations with shareholders corporate governance issues into mainstream investment Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the decision-making and ownership practices.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is through the The way companies respond to sustainability and corporate Half-Year and Annual Report and Financial Statements which responsibility can affect their business performance, both aim to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of directly and indirectly.
An investee companys policy on the Companys activities and their results.
This information is social responsibility and the environment is therefore supplemented by the daily calculation and by the publication considered as part of the investment risk decision.
at the Stock Exchange of the net asset value NAV of the Voting policy Companys ordinary shares and a monthly fact sheet.
Hendersons Responsible Investment Policy sets out the Information about the Company can be found at Managers approach to corporate governance and corporate www.
com responsibility for all the companies in which it invests on behalf of its clients, and its policy on proxy voting.
