Corporate governance report How is good governance achieved?
Good and effective corporate governance is also very much dependent on the skills and experience of individuals on the Board and how well they work together as a whole to achieve long term value for shareholders.
A great deal is demanded and expected of our Directors, particularly given the systemic importance of financial institutions such as Barclays to the global economy and the impact we have on the societies in which we operate.
As Chairman, I am responsible for the effective performance of the Board and, in that regard, one of my areas of focus since joining the Board has been to ensure that we have a strong and well-functioning Board, comprised of individuals not only with the right abilities in terms of technical or business experience, but with the personal qualities required to be effective stewards of the business and the dedication and commitment to the company, particularly in times of stress.
I was closely involved in the process to appoint a new Chief Executive and I am confident that, in appointing Antony Jenkins, we have the right person to lead the company, to deliver our strategy of becoming the 'Go-To' bank and to implement the significant cultural and behavioural changes that we, as a Board, want to achieve.
I have also sought to reinforce the non-executive presence on the Board and to ensure that the Board is both balanced and diverse.
We have revisited the range of skills and competencies that we require around the Board table and these are set out on page 50 below.
The Board needs to have non-executive Directors with financial services experience but also Dear Shareholder access to other skills and experiences, particularly in the management of culture and cultural change.
Tim Breedon and Diane fide Saint Victor have This is my first report to you, as Chairman, on corporate governance at joined the Board as non-executive Directors since I joined the Board and Barclays.
I joined the Board with effect from 1 September 2012, I anticipate that we will make further appointments during the course succeeding Marcus Agius as Chairman on 1 November 2012.
The of 2013. context for my appointment was, as is well-known, the changes to the Board in the wake of the announcement in June 2012 of penalties How is risk management being enhanced?
relating to the industry-wide investigation into the setting of interbank In looking at the corporate governance structures in place, it is clear to offered rates.
That announcement, and the events that followed, me that Barclays has been well served by having, for many years, a inevitably dominated the second half of the year and the after effects Board Risk Committee focused on credit, counterparty, market, capital continue to influence the Boards agenda.
However, a major source of losses for Barclays and all banks in recent years has been from operational risk and, in particular, What is meant by corporate governance?
We need to strengthen Board-level Taking a step back, what is meant by corporate governance?
The UK governance over these areas in 2013 and accordingly, we have created Corporate Governance Code the Code is based on the widely-accepted a Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee.
Its definition of corporate governance as the system by which companies responsibilities will include governance over operational risk, conduct are directed and controlled.
Boards of directors are responsible for the risk, reputation matters and Barclays corporate responsibility strategy.
The Code makes clear that corporate It will subsume the current Board Citizenship Committee.
governance is about what the board of a company does and how it sets the companys values.
That is something that has been brought into How do Board Committees support good governance?
sharp focus for Barclays during 2012.
Barclays has a well-defined and The report that follows describes how Barclays applied the principles of well-structured corporate governance framework in place to support the the Code during 2012.
Board Committees play a crucial role in the Boards aim of achieving long term and sustainable shareholder value.
effectiveness of our corporate governance framework and Sir Michael But however robust the framework, it is imperative that it is supported by Rake and David Booth report below on the activities of the Board Audit the right culture, values and behaviours, both at the top and throughout Committee and Board Risk Committee respectively.
And Sir John the entire organisation.
In 2012, Barclays faced much criticism of the Sunderland reports separately in the Remuneration Report on how the values and behaviours it has demonstrated.
We are unanimous as a Board Remuneration Committee has overseen remuneration policy, how Board that we must accept this criticism and seek ways in which we can we link remuneration to our strategy and to long term outcomes and do better in future, with the aim of achieving a leadership position how we ensure that we are not incentivising inappropriate risk-taking.
I regard the independent review of Barclays business practices, led by Anthony Salz, which we announced in July What are the priorities for 2013?
2012, and the work instigated by Antony Jenkins on culture and values as We are determined as a Board and as a company to make progress part of the Transform Programme, as providing a solid foundation on during 2013 and to do everything in our power to regain the trust of our which we can build and move forward to become best in class.
You will stakeholders: our commitment to implementing the recommendations read more about each of these important initiatives elsewhere in the of the Salz Review is affirmation of our determination.
Annual Report and, later in this corporate governance report, Sir Michael Rake, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, reports on how Board governance responded to the LIBOR announcement.
Sir David Walker Chairman 5 March 2013 38 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee C h Board Remuneration Committee i e f E x E e c x u e t i v c e u Corporate governance report Leadership The role of the Board The names of the Directors and their full biographical details, including The principal responsibility of the Board is to promote the long term the skills and experience they each bring to the Board, can be found on success of Barclays by creating and delivering sustainable shareholder pages 67-69. value.
The Board leads and provides direction for management by setting strategy and overseeing its implementation by management.
To assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure there is The Board seeks to ensure that, while the ultimate focus is long term independent oversight of internal control and risk management, the growth, management also delivers on short term objectives, striking Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board Committees, the right balance between the two.
In setting and monitoring the which are comprised of independent non-executive Directors and, in execution of Barclays strategy, consideration is given to the impact that some cases, the Chairman.
The Chairman of each Board Committee those decisions will have on Barclays obligations to various reports to the Board on the matters discussed at Board Committee stakeholders, such as shareholders, employees, suppliers and the meetings.
Each Board Committee has agreed Terms of Reference community in which Barclays operates as a whole.
approved by the Board, which can be found on Barclays website.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring that an effective system of More information on the role of the Board and its Committees can internal control is maintained and that management maintains an be found in Corporate Governance in Barclays, which is available effective risk management and oversight process across the Group, so online at Barclays.
com that growth is delivered in a controlled and sustainable way.
In addition, the Board is responsible for determining and promoting Barclays collective vision of its purpose, values, culture and behaviours.
Specific key decisions and matters have been reserved for approval by the Board.
These include decisions on the Groups strategy, approval of risk appetite, capital and liquidity matters, major acquisitions, mergers or disposals, Board membership, financial results and governance issues, including the approval of the corporate governance framework.
A full formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to the Board can be found on Barclays website at Barclays.
Corporate Governance Framework Board Audit Committee Board Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee A Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee was established at the end of January 2013.
Notes a Known as the Board Financial Risk Committee with effect from 31 January 2013. b Known as the Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee with effect from 31 January 2013. barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 39 C t o i m v m e i t t e O e f f i Board Citizenship b Committee c e r Board Risk a Committee Corporate governance report Leadership continued Roles The Chairman is responsible for the overall operation and It is the responsibility of the Chairman to ensure effective Role of the governance of the Board.
Sir David Walker, the Chairman, communication with shareholders and other stakeholders Chairman provides leadership and manages the Board to ensure that and to ensure that members of the Board develop and Barclays satisfies its legal, regulatory and stewardship maintain an understanding of the views of major investors responsibilities.
The Chairman sets the Boards agenda, in and other key stakeholders.
Details of how Barclays consultation with the Group Chief Executive and Company engages with its shareholders and other stakeholders can Secretary, taking full account of the issues and concerns of be found on pages 60-61.
Board agendas are structured to allow adequate and sufficient time for the discussion of the The full role profile for the Chairman can be found in items on the agenda, in particular, strategic matters.
The Barclays Charter of Expectations, which is available on Chairman is also responsible for facilitating and Barclays website.
encouraging active engagement and appropriate challenge by Directors, particularly on matters of risk and Sir David Walker is also Chairman of the Board Corporate strategy or other major proposals, by drawing on Governance and Nominations Committee and the Board Directors skills, experience and knowledge.
He is a member of the Board Remuneration Committee and, although not a member, will attend a number of the Board Audit and Board Risk Committee meetings each year to observe the Committees in action and assess their effectiveness.
The Group Chief Executive, Antony Jenkins, has The Board has delegated this responsibility to him and he is Role of the Group responsibility for recommending the Groups strategy to accountable to the Board.
He is supported by the Executive Chief Executive the Board and for implementing the strategy agreed by the Committee, which he chairs.
Board, making and implementing operational decisions and managing the business day-to-day.
Non-executive Directors are independent of management.
They are also responsible for exercising appropriate oversight Role of the Their role is to effectively and constructively challenge through scrutinising the performance of management in non-executive management and monitor the success of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitoring Directors delivering the agreed strategy within the risk appetite and performance.
control framework set by the Board.
Sir Michael Rake is Deputy Chairman and Senior During 2012, Sir Michael Rake played a significant role in the Role of Independent Director.
He was appointed as Deputy wake of the announcement of penalties relating to the the Senior Chairman in July 2012, at the height of events following industry-wide investigation into the setting of interbank Independent the LIBOR announcement, having been Senior offered rates.
Subsequent to the announcement of the Director Independent Director since October 2011.
As Senior resignation of Marcus Agius as Chairman, Sir Michael was in Independent Director, Sir Michaels role is to provide a contact with shareholders and other relevant stakeholders, sounding board for the Chairman and provide support for including Barclays regulators, to understand their views and the Chairman in the delivery of his objectives.
He also concerns relating to the LIBOR announcement and the serves as a trusted intermediary for the Directors, when resignation of the Chairman.
He is available to shareholders should the discussions were held with shareholders and other occasion arise where there is a need to convey concerns stakeholders after the ensuing announcement of the to the Board other than through the Chairman or the resignation of Bob Diamond as Chief Executive.
As Deputy Group Chief Executive.
The Senior Independent Director is Chairman, Sir Michael Rake has taken a lead role in the also expected to work with the Chairman and other Boards governance response to the LIBOR announcement Directors or shareholders, as required, where the stability and he reports on that on page 43. of the Board or Barclays is threatened.
The Company Secretary, Lawrence Dickinson, works Board and Board Committee meeting papers are delivered a Company closely with the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and week before the meeting via a secure electronic system, Secretary the Board Committee Chairmen in setting the annual which can be accessed by Directors using tablet computers.
forward calendar of agenda items for the meetings of the After each meeting, the Chairman meets with the Company Board and its Committees.
He also ensures that accurate, Secretary to agree actions to be followed up and to discuss timely and appropriate information flows within and to the effectiveness of the meeting.
Details of the role of the the Board, the Board Committees and between the Company Secretary and the support provided to the Board Directors and senior management in general.
can be found in Barclays Charter of Expectations.
Full role profiles for the non-executive Directors and Senior Independent Director can be found in Barclays Charter of Expectations.
40 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information How the Board operates Where Directors are unable to attend meetings, usually because of The Board meets regularly and there are eight scheduled meetings illness or long-standing prior engagements, they are encouraged to each year, including an annual strategy meeting.
When necessary, and give the Chairman their views or comments on the matters to be if circumstances dictate, additional Board meetings are held.
Following the meeting, the Chairman or the Company there were 15 additional meetings held at short notice to discuss Secretary briefs any Director not present on the discussions and any matters such as changes to Board composition, issues arising from the decisions taken.
Details of Board meeting attendance in 2012 can be LIBOR announcement, taxation matters and corporate transactions.
In found in the table below.
During the year, the non-executive Directors total, the Board met 23 times during the year.
The Chairman met met the time commitment specified in their letters of appointment and privately with the non-executive Directors before each scheduled Board committed significantly more time during the period of stress Barclays meeting to discuss any matters they wished to raise at the meeting.
experienced in July and August 2012.
Attendance Independent Scheduled meetings eligible to attend Additional meetings eligible to attend Group Chairman Marcus Agius to 31 October 2012 On appointment Sir David Walker c from 1 September 2012 On appointment Executive Directors b Robert E Diamond to 3 July 2012 Executive Director Antony Jenkins from 30 August 2012 Executive Director b Chris Lucas Executive Director Non-executive Directors b David Booth Independent non-executive Director Tim Breedon from 1 November 2012 Independent non-executive Director ab Alison Carnwath to 24 July 2012 Independent non-executive Director ab Fulvio Conti Independent non-executive Director Simon Fraser Independent non-executive Director b Reuben Jeffery Independent non-executive Director b Sir Andrew Likierman Independent non-executive Director b Dambisa Moyo Independent non-executive Director b Sir Michael Rake Independent non-executive Director b Sir John Sunderland Independent non-executive Director Lawrence Dickinson Secretary Attended Did not attend Notes a Unable to attend a scheduled meeting owing to a prior commitment.
b Unable to attend certain additional meetings held at short notice owing to prior commitments.
c Appointed to the Board with effect from 1 September 2012 and as Chairman with effect from 1 November 2012.
Board allocation of time % Corporate Governance in Barclays 2012 2011 1 5 1 Strategy formulation and implementation monitoring 39 39 All of our corporate governance practices have been brought 3 2 Governance and Risk together in one document, Corporate Governance in Barclays.
This including regulatory issues 40 35 framework provides the basis for promoting the highest standards 3 Finance including capital and liquidity 12 16 of corporate governance in Barclays.
Corporate Governance in 4 Corporate Finance 0 1 Barclays is available on our website, Barclays.
5 Other including compensation 9 9 2 Charter of Expectations The role profiles, responsibilities, time commitments, key competencies and behaviours we expect of our Directors, together with the key indicators of high performance, are set out in our Charter of Expectations, which is available on our website, Barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 41 Corporate governance report Leadership continued Board balance and diversity Board activity in 2012 Balance of non-executive and executive Directors The Boards agenda in 2012 was dominated by the changing regulatory environment and, in the latter half of 2012, by consideration of the future direction and shape of the business and its culture and values in light of both the external environment and in the aftermath of the LIBOR announcement.
Key activities 1 Chairman for the Board during the year included: 2 Executive Directors 10 Independent non-executive Directors reviewing strategic options open to the Group in its different business areas in light of the regulatory and economic environment.
Board gender balance receiving updates from each of Barclays principal businesses and discussing their progress against agreed strategy.
discussing the implications of a statement by HMRC concerning the repurchase of debt by Barclays.
85% Male considering and approving the sale of Barclays interest in 15% Female BlackRock, Inc. discussing and agreeing Barclays One Africa strategy, involving the combination of the majority of Barclays operations in Africa with Absa.
Length of tenure of non-executive Directors considering the announcement of penalties relating to the industry-wide investigation into the setting of interbank offered rates and the subsequent events.
discussing changes in the composition of the Board, including approving the appointment of a new Chairman and a new Chief 0-3 years Executive.
3-6 years 6-9 years reviewing a report on compliance and internal audit lessons learned from the LIBOR incident.
a Industry background experience discussing and reviewing progress of the work implemented by Antony Jenkins as part of the Transform Programme, including 8 1 7 a review of business performance, costs, funding and liquidity 1 Financial services 6 matters and a discussion of Barclays purpose, values and 2 Accountancy financial expert 2 6 3 Political regulatory contacts 5 behaviours.
4 Current or recent Chairman CEO 4 5 5 International US 2 2 considering and approving Barclays risk appetite, liquidity risk 6 International Europe 2 7 International RoW 1 appetite and the Groups capital plan.
3 8 Retail marketing 1 4 receiving regular updates on global economic conditions and regulatory developments and the outlook for the industry.
Note a Individual Directors may fall into one or more categories.
During 2012, the Board held two informal meetings with representatives from the FSA to ensure that all Directors had the opportunity to hear first-hand from Barclays principal regulator Geographical mix of non-executive Directors and exchange views.
The chart on page 50 illustrates how the Board allocated its time during 2012.
6 from the 2 from 2 from the Priorities for 2013 United Kingdom Continental Europe United States In 2013, the Boards priority will be providing oversight of and challenge to the progress of delivery of the actions and financial and non-financial commitments Barclays has made as part of its Strategic Review, which were announced in February 2013.
42 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Board governance responding to the LIBOR announcement In response to the announcement in June 2012 and subsequent events, the Board set up three specific sub-committees of the Board, chaired by me in my capacity as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
LIBOR Employee Investigation Review Committee The purpose of this Committee, which comprised me, Sir John Sunderland and Marcus Agius, who was succeeded following his retirement by Sir David Walker, was to provide a level of Board oversight in respect of the review of the conduct of certain current and former employees in relation to LIBOR.
The Committees role was to satisfy itself that proper processes had been followed and that outcomes were appropriate.
To assist the Committee in fulfilling this responsibility, the Committee appointed an independent adviser, John Turnbull from Linklaters LLP, who reviewed the scope and methodology of the review and the resulting outcomes.
We met four times during the second half of 2012 to consider the progress of the review and the outcomes.
At the conclusion of the review, 13 current employees were subject to disciplinary action, including 5 who were dismissed.
In total, deferred compensation amounting to 24.6m was clawed back from 15 current and former employees as a result of the review.
This excludes any sums voluntarily surrendered by individuals.
The Board Remuneration Committee considered the wider application of claw back and further details are in the Remuneration Report.
The Committee was satisfied that a thorough and fair process was conducted and that the outcomes of the review were appropriate in each individual case.
This view was supported by our independent adviser.
Business Practices Review Committee The Business Practices Review Committee comprises me, David Booth and Sir John Sunderland and was established following Barclays announcement in July 2012 that Anthony Salz would conduct an independent review of Barclays business practices the Salz Review.
The purpose of the Committee is to oversee the progress of the Salz Review and report to the Board on progress, to consider any recommendations arising from the Salz Review and to oversee any action to be taken as a result.
The Committee met twice in the second half of 2012 to check on the progress of the review and has held further meetings in early 2013.
The Committee will meet again to discuss the recommendations of the Salz Review and Barclays response, which are due to be published prior to the 2013 AGM.
In addition to the formal meetings of the Committee, I have also met with Anthony Salz directly on a number of occasions.
Regulatory Investigations Committee In the fourth quarter of 2012, the Board established a Regulatory Investigations Committee comprising me, Antony Jenkins, Sir John Sunderland and Sir David Walker.
The primary purpose of this Committee is to oversee certain regulatory investigations, to consider the findings of those investigations and to direct the scope and conduct of those investigations as appropriate, including directing and overseeing any remediation activities and considering whether any disciplinary action is required in respect of any Barclays employee.
The Committee met four times in 2012 and will continue to meet in 2013.
The Committee has appointed an independent external adviser, John Turnbull from Linklaters LLP, to assist it in its deliberations.
Sir David Walker assumed chairmanship of the Committee in early 2013.
Sir Michael Rake Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 43 Corporate governance report Effectiveness Board composition, qualification and independence Succession planning and Board appointments The composition, experience and balance of skills on the Board are The Board recognises the need to ensure that the Board and executive regularly reviewed to ensure that there is the right mix on the Board management are always well resourced, with the right people in terms and its committees and that they are working effectively.
There are of skills and experience to deliver the Companys strategy.
Board currently 13 Directors on the Board, which comprises an independent composition is regularly reviewed to ensure the Board is refreshed Chairman, two executive Directors and ten independent non-executive progressively.
Factors considered include length of tenure, background, Directors.
The current members of the Board have a wide range of skills experience, including industry and geographical experience, and and experience.
Diversity, including gender diversity, is important for a diversity.
A chart showing the gender representation on the Board can be found on page 42.
More information on Barclays Board The length of tenure of the current non-executive Directors and diversity policy can be found on page 51. their geographical experience and background is illustrated on page 42 The balance of the Board is illustrated on page 42 The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee is responsible for both executive and non-executive Director succession Director independence planning and recommends new appointments to the Board.
The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and the Board consider and review the independence of each non-executive More details on the role of the Board Corporate Governance and Director on an annual basis as part of the Directors performance Nominations Committee are given on pages 50-51 evaluation.
In carrying out the review, consideration is given to factors such as length of tenure and the ability of the Director to provide In July 2012, the Company announced that Marcus Agius would resign objective challenge to management.
The behaviours that the Board as Chairman and that a successor was being sought.
Following a considers to be essential indicators of independence are set out in search, led by Sir John Sunderland with the assistance of MWM Barclays Charter of Expectations.
Following the annual review for 2012, Consulting, an external search agency, Sir David Walker was appointed the Board concluded that each of the non-executive Directors reviewed as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 September 2012 and continues to demonstrate those behaviours and is considered by the succeeded Marcus Agius as Chairman with effect from 1 November Board to be independent.
Following the resignation of Bob Diamond in July 2012, a search for a new Group Chief Executive commenced, led by the then Directors external activities and conflicts of interest Chairman, Marcus Agius and with the close involvement of the then Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have Chairman-designate, Sir David Walker and the Deputy Chairman, or may have interests that conflict with those of Barclays, unless that Sir Michael Rake.
The search was conducted with the assistance of conflict is first authorised by the Directors.
This includes potential Spencer Stuart, an external search agency.
Antony Jenkins was conflicts that may arise when a Director takes up a position with subsequently appointed as a Director and as Group Chief Executive another company.
Barclays Articles of Association allow the Board to with effect from 30 August 2012.
Sir John Sunderland and Sir David authorise such potential conflicts, and there is in place a procedure to Walker report on the search for a new Chairman and a new Group deal with any actual or potential conflict of interest.
The Board deals Chief Executive, respectively, on the following pages.
with each appointment on its individual merit and takes into consideration all the circumstances.
Prior to taking on additional Tim Breedon was appointed as a non-executive Director with effect responsibilities or external appointments, Directors are obliged to obtain from 1 November 2012, having been identified in early 2012 as a authorisation and it is their responsibility to ensure that they will be able potential candidate by the Board Corporate Governance and to meet the time commitment expected of them in their role at Barclays.
Nominations Committee itself, which had concluded there was a need All potential conflicts approved by the Board are recorded in an Interests to appoint a current or recent Chief Executive to the Board.
Diane fide Register, which is reviewed on an annual basis by the Board Corporate Saint Victor was appointed as a non-executive Director with effect from Governance and Nominations Committee to ensure that the procedure 1 March 2013, having been identified as a potential candidate by MWM is working effectively.
Following a review of the Interests Register in Consulting.
Both were assessed against the required skills and early 2013, the Committee concluded that all the potential conflicts as competencies that the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations registered have been considered thoroughly and appropriately.
Committee had identified as being desirable.
Tim was previously Chief Executive of Legal & General Group plc and has over 25 years Executive Directors may take up only one FTSE 100 non-executive experience of working in the insurance industry.
He brings to the Board directorship and are allowed to retain any fees they receive for a significant knowledge of regulatory issues and a wealth of financial such appointments.
Antony Jenkins and Chris Lucas do not hold services experience in addition to his experience as a chief executive.
Diane is General Counsel of ABB and has a background in legal and regulatory matters and in leading cultural change.
Her experience will Director re-election bring a valuable perspective to the Board as the Transform Programme is implemented and Barclays new Purpose and Values are embedded.
With the exception of Sir Andrew Likierman, who will be standing down at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 25 April 2013, all Directors including Sir David Walker, Antony Jenkins, The external agencies named above have no other connection with Tim Breedon and Diane fide Saint Victor, who were all appointed since Barclays other than to provide executive recruitment services.
the last AGM, will each submit themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Biographical details of each of the Directors, together with details of their skills and experience, may be found on pages 67-69.
Following a rigorous performance evaluation of each Director and the Board as a whole, excluding recent appointees Diane fide Saint Victor and Tim Breedon, all Directors are considered by the Board to be fully effective.
For more detailed information on Board evaluation please see page 48-49 44 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Appointing a new Chairman Following the resignation of Marcus Agius as Chairman in July 2012, the Board asked me to take the lead in finding a successor.
An external search agency was briefed on the essential and desirable experience and personal attributes required for the role, which were agreed beforehand by the Board.
It was clear to us that we needed to appoint an experienced chairman, with financial services experience and strong governance credentials, who could provide the Board with effective leadership and who would command the respect of both fellow Directors and external stakeholders.
Given the resignation of Bob Diamond as Chief Executive, the Board was committed to appointing a new Chairman as quickly as possible.
It was clear that any incoming Chief Executive would need to know the identity of the new Chairman given the pivotal importance of their relationship to the effectiveness of the Board.
It was also clear that, given the events of 2012, the minimum time commitment required of the Chairman would increase from roughly 60% of a full-time role to 80% of a full-time role.
A long list of candidates, both internal and external, was reviewed and discussed by the non-executive Directors during July, with the list being narrowed to a shortlist of two candidates.
Both candidates then had individual meetings with each non-executive Director and with Chris Lucas, Group Finance Director, and feedback on each candidate was obtained.
I also took soundings on the candidates from a number of stakeholders, including Barclays principal regulators and certain major institutional shareholders.
The non-executive Directors met a number of times to provide feedback on their meetings with each candidate and to discuss the personal references.
Our unanimous view was that Sir David Walker was the right candidate to be appointed as Chairman of Barclays.
Sir David has significant experience in financial services, coupled with a wealth of experience as both a director and as a chairman.
He has an impeccable reputation for governance, with an excellent understanding and experience of UK boardroom and corporate governance issues and the role of a chairman.
The Board approved Sir Davids appointment as a non-executive Director and as Chairman-designate in early August and he subsequently joined the Board with effect from 1 September 2012, succeeding Marcus Agius as Chairman with effect from 1 November 2012.
I am delighted that we were able to quickly secure the services of Sir David as Chairman: he commands great respect within the financial services industry and has brought immense experience, integrity and knowledge to the role.
Sir John Sunderland Independent non-executive Director barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 45 Appointing a new Group Chief Executive The process to appoint a new Group Chief Executive was initially led by my predecessor, Marcus Agius, in conjunction with Sir Michael Rake, the Deputy Chairman, and other members of the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee, although I was closely involved from the announcement of my appointment as Chairman-designate in early August 2012.
An external search firm was engaged to identify candidates against the role specification and the skills, experience and personal qualities the Board had agreed were essential and desirable for the role of Group Chief Executive.
An extensive list of global, potential candidates was reviewed, with a shortlist of candidates, both internal and external, put forward to the Board for discussion during July 2012.
After meetings between several candidates and the then Chairman, the Deputy Chairman and the Group HR Director, the candidate list was narrowed further to three potential candidates, who each then met individually with me and with Barclays nonexecutive Directors.
The non-executive Directors on the Board met in mid-August 2012 to allow Directors to provide feedback on their meetings with each candidate.
It became clear from our discussions that Antony Jenkins was the candidate that best fit the role requirements and had the vision required to take Barclays forward, with the support of the Board and the Executive Committee.
I approached a number of our key stakeholders, including some of our major shareholders and representatives of our principal regulators, to discuss the proposed appointment and to gauge their views.
A sub-committee of the Board, comprising Marcus Agius, Sir Michael Rake and Sir John Sunderland, was appointed with delegated authority to finalise the terms of the appointment, which was announced on 30 August 2012.
I am pleased that we were able to implement such a thorough and rigorous process and settle the leadership of Barclays quickly from a strong field of candidates.
Sir David Walker Chairman 46 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Corporate governance report Effectiveness continued Executive Directors service contracts and non-executive Directors minimum of 20 days per annum to the role.
Additional time terms of appointment commitment is required to fulfil roles as Board Committee members On appointment, executive Directors are given a one year rolling and or Board Committee chairmen, as applicable.
On average, the time service contract.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors have a commitment of non-executive Directors is in the range of 3036 days letter of appointment that sets out the terms and conditions of their per annum, although they typically devote considerably more time to Directorship, including the fees payable and the expected time Barclays duties and did so during 2012, particularly in connection with commitment.
Each non-executive Director is expected to commit a the search for a new Chairman and a new Chief Executive.
Board induction and professional development Induction Professional development Newly appointed Directors are provided with a bespoke induction Barclays offers a programme of ongoing professional development for programme to further their understanding and their knowledge of existing Directors.
Personal development logs are maintained for each Barclays, its operations and staff.
The Chairman, with the support of non-executive Director, which record external and internal briefings the Company Secretary, is responsible for the induction of new and other events that each attends, such as internal management Directors and for the ongoing professional development of all conferences.
During 2012, non-executive Directors attended briefing Directors.
Induction programmes are tailored to each new Director, sessions on Long Term Incentive Plans and on the Investment Banks depending on the experience and background of the Director.
For fixed income and prime services businesses.
They also attended example, on his appointment to the Board, Sir David Walkers sessions demonstrating the use of new technology in Barclays branch induction programme took into account his later role as Chairman network.
Members of the Board Audit Committee attended briefing and included the following items: sessions on algorithmic trading and members of the Board Risk Committee attended briefing sessions on operational risk and on the Investment Banks balance sheet.
Directors are asked for input on an induction pack providing background information on Barclays operations and policies: potential topics for ongoing professional development, which informs the planned programme.
sessions with each of the executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee: In addition to the above, independent professional advice is available to the Directors at Barclays expense.
During 2012, an independent adviser was engaged to advise the LIBOR Investigation Employee meetings with the senior executives responsible for each of the Review Committee and the Regulatory Investigations Committee.
Groups principal businesses, including the Investment Bank, Retail and Business Banking, Wealth and Investment Management and Africa, focusing on the challenges and opportunities faced by each An annual review of Barclays Director induction and development programmes is carried out by the Board Corporate Governance and business: Nominations Committee to ensure that they are appropriate and fit for purpose.
More information on Barclays Board induction and meetings with key personnel in central support functions, including ongoing Director development can be found in Corporate compliance, corporate development, finance, risk management, Governance in Barclays.
citizenship and sustainability, internal audit and corporate affairs: and meetings with key external stakeholders, such as major institutional shareholders and regulators.
This initial induction programme will be supplemented with a programme of business visits over a period of 12 18 months, including visits to selected UK and overseas operational centres.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 47 Corporate governance report Effectiveness continued Evaluation Statement A summary of the Boards progress against the actions arising from its 2011 Board Effectiveness Review can be found below: Theme Action Taken Board composition is reviewed regularly.
In 2012, a revised skills Ensuring that the Board continues to have an matrix was developed against which the Board Corporate appropriate range and balance of skills, experience Governance and Nominations Committee assessed the current and diversity composition of the Board and identified the skills and experience to be sought in new appointments.
Appointments were made to the Board and to Board Committees during 2012 to maintain the balance of skills required.
A renewed emphasis was given to gender diversity on the Board following the departure of Alison Carnwath and Diane fide Saint Victor joined the Board in early 2013.
Executive succession planning, including succession planning for Continuing to develop an appropriate process Board and Executive Committee roles, was a regular agenda item for for succession planning for key Board and senior the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee executive management positions during 2012.
During 2012, a revised approach to talent management and the outcomes of a review of succession planning for senior strategic roles were presented to the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee.
There has been greater interaction between the Board and members Enabling the Board to have greater interaction with of the Executive Committee, by way of presentations to the Board on Executive Committee members to gain an enhanced the evening before Board meetings, followed by dinners over which understanding of the challenges and opportunities key issues are discussed in greater depth.
The Board also visited they face in their businesses Barclays operations in New York twice during 2012, to gain first-hand experience of Barclays US businesses.
Three senior talent events took place in 2012, which enabled the Ensuring that the Board has visibility of talent Board to meet and interact with senior executives at the level below amongst senior executive management Executive Committee in order to increase the Boards visibility of potential future leaders.
A weekly update note from the Group Chief Executive is circulated to Continuing to ensure that timely and high-quality Board members, covering key issues and developments, including information flows to the Board and to Board regulatory matters, trading and senior appointments.
This provides Committees up-to-date information to Directors outside the formal Board meeting reports.
Increasing use has been made of a secure electronic system to deliver meeting papers and other information to Directors securely and quickly via tablet computers.
48 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Evaluation of Board performance Enhancing the relationship between the Board and the Executive To improve the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, as well Committee following changes in both Board and Executive as that of each individual Director, a formal and rigorous Board review Committee composition in 2012: is undertaken on an annual basis.
This review has been externally Ensuring that the working relationship between the Chairman and facilitated since 2004.
This formal process enables the Board to CEO is strong in recognition of the critical importance of this monitor trends in responses to questions and track progress made relationship to the effectiveness of the Board as a whole: against action plans.
On an annual basis, Barclays approach to Board evaluation is benchmarked against the practices of other companies in Ensuring that the Board has greater line of sight into the views of key the FTSE 20 to ensure that Barclays remains at the forefront of best stakeholders.
Informal meetings with Barclays regulators have practice.
The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations started and will continue, in both the UK and US: Committee is responsible for overseeing the process and for Rebuilding trust with stakeholders with regard to Barclays monitoring any action plans on behalf of the Board.
remuneration policy, particularly in light of voting at the 2012 AGM.
Extensive consultation took place with stakeholders during 2012 and For 2012, the Board evaluation process was conducted by Egon will continue into 2013: Zehnder International Egon Zehnder, who used a short questionnaire covering similar themes to previous years evaluations, although the Ensuring that an appropriate balance of skills, experience and main part of the evaluation process took the form of structured diversity on the Board is maintained.
Two new non-executive interviews with Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
Directors have been recently appointed and further appointments are While Egon Zehnder is an executive search agent, it did not undertake envisaged in 2013: any Barclays Board searches during the year and the Board believes Further improving the quality of information flows to the Board to that it provides an impartial and objective board evaluation service.
achieve an appropriate balance between data and analysis: and The 2012 Board evaluation reviewed the events of 2012, in particular, Enhancing succession planning for key Board positions, in particular, those culminating in the resignations of Marcus Agius and Bob continuing to ensure that the Board builds its knowledge and Diamond.
The voting at Barclays 2012 AGM was also considered as understanding of the depth of talent in the business.
part of the evaluation process and Egon Zehnder held interviews with a selection of Barclays major shareholders.
The substantial changes in the Board in 2012 inevitably complicated the performance evaluation process, but key themes were identified and form the basis of the action plan for 2013 as follows: barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 49 Corporate governance report Effectiveness continued Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Report Committee composition, skills and experience In addition to the Chairman, there are three non-executive Directors on the Committee, being the Chairmen of the main Board Committees.
The names of the members of the Committee are set out opposite, together with attendance at meetings in 2012.
The Group Chief Executive also attends each meeting, although is not involved in decisions relating to Chief Executive succession.
Committee responsibilities and how they were discharged in 2012 The Committee is responsible for reviewing the composition of the Board and Board Committees to ensure they are properly constituted and balanced in terms of skills, experience and diversity.
In addition to this, it: recommends to the Board the appointment of new Directors: considers succession plans for the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and other key positions, such as roles on the Executive Committee and other senior roles: monitors corporate governance issues and developments to ensure that Barclays is in line with best practice guidelines: and agrees and monitors the annual Board Effectiveness Review and tracks any actions arising.
I t is essential that the Board and its The Committees full terms of reference are available on the corporate Committees are properly constituted governance section of Barclays website.
and balanced in terms of skills, The Committee met four times in 2012, including an additional experience and diversity.
meeting solely to review and discuss Board composition.
The chart below shows how the Committee allocated its time.
In 2012, the Sir David Walker Committee focused primarily on Board composition and succession Chairman, Board Corporate Governance planning for roles below the Board level.
Key activities undertaken by and Nominations Committee the Committee in 2012 were: Board composition reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and the principal Board Committees, looking at the need to refresh the Board and at the balance and diversity of skills and experience on the Board.
In reviewing the composition of the Board, a skills analysis was carried out using a revised skills matrix agreed by the Committee in Member Independent Meetings eligible to attend 2012, which set out the core competencies and skills that it would be a Sir David Walker Chairman On appointment desirable to have on the Board, such as financial services, from 1 September 2012 experienced chief executives from other companies and industries, Marcus Agius On appointment accountancy, retail and marketing and experience of the main to 31 October 2012 geographic markets in which Barclays operates, along with the target Yes David Booth weightings for each.
Following a review of the composition of the Alison Carnwath Yes to 24 July 2012 Board, the Committee approved the appointment of Tim Breedon as Yes Sir Michael Rake a non-executive Director with effect from 1 November 2012 and the Yes Sir John Sunderland appointment of Diane fide Saint Victor as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 March 2013.
Lawrence Dickinson Secretary carried out a review of progress against Board diversity targets and Attended Did not attend discussed and agreed a Board Diversity Policy, recommending it to the Board for its approval.
Note a Member of the Committee since 1 September 2012, considered and recommended changes to Board Committee becoming Chairman from 1 November 2012. composition during the year.
The Committee recommended the appointment of David Booth to the Board Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 July 2012 to provide cross-membership between Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee allocation of time % the Board Remuneration and Board Risk Committees.
Drawing on 2012 2011 1 5 reviews by the Committee, the Board as a whole considered and 1 Corporate governance matters 21 19 approved the appointment of Sir John Sunderland as Chairman of the 2 Board and committee composition 32 31 4 Board Remuneration Committee, recommended the appointment of 3 Succession planning and talent 29 30 2 4 Board effectiveness 14 16 Tim Breedon as a member of the Board Risk Committee and Board 5 Other 4 4 Remuneration Committee and the appointment of Sir David Walker as a member of the Board Remuneration Committee and as a member and Chairman of the Board Corporate Governance and 3 Nominations Committee and Board Citizenship Committee.
50 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Report Succession planning discussed succession planning for the position of Chief Executive and Statement on diversity policy for the Executive Committee and reviewed potential candidates for these roles: Board diversity, in particular, gender diversity, continues to be a topic of much discussion.
The Board believes that diversity is reviewed the Groups succession and talent management important for board effectiveness.
However, diversity is much programme below Board level: more than the issue of gender, and includes diversity of skills, reviewed and discussed the processes, overall methodology and experience and background.
In response to Lord Daviess report contingency plans in place for senior strategic roles: and on Women on Boards, Barclays published a Board Diversity Policy in April 2012, which sets out Barclays approach to received updates on Barclays graduate recruitment and training diversity on the Board.
The Board Diversity Policy can be found in programme, including an update on gender diversity.
the Corporate Governance section of Barclays website.
All Barclays Board appointments are made on merit, in the context Corporate governance of the skills and experience the Board as a whole requires to be reviewed Barclays corporate governance disclosures in the 2011 effective.
Nevertheless the Board is aiming to ensure that at least annual report and considered the proposed disclosures for the 2012 20 per cent of the Board is made up of women by the end of annual report: 2013 and for that position to have exceeded 25 per cent by the reviewed and discussed Barclays approach to Board and Committee end of 2015.
Women currently represent 15% of the Board.
induction and development: Diversity in relation to employees of the Barclays Group is covered by Barclays Equality and Diversity Charter and more received updates on significant corporate governance developments information on diversity across Barclays can be found in the in the UK and EU and how these might impact Barclays: People section on page 71. carried out an annual review of the Directors Interests Register to ensure that an effective process for authorising conflicts is in place and authorised conflicts have been dealt with appropriately: reviewed and discussed issues raised at corporate governance Committee Effectiveness meetings held with institutional investors and investor bodies: and The performance of the Committee is reviewed each year as part reviewed the effectiveness of the Committee and proposed changes of the Board Effectiveness Review.
to its terms of reference following a review against best practice.
Following the 2011 annual effectiveness review of the Board effectiveness Committee, the Committee improved the induction process for discussed and approved the proposed actions to be taken in its new members by committing to implement a bespoke response to the findings of the 2011 Board Effectiveness Review.
The induction for any new member, to be agreed by the Company Committee also reviewed reports on the status of the action plan to Secretary with the Chairman and the new member.
The monitor the progress being made: Committee also provided more opportunities for members to bring items onto the Committee agenda, such as including the reviewed the status of actions being taken in response to the findings Committees annual forward agenda with the papers for each of the FSAs review of Barclays Board governance as part of its Core meeting.
Prudential Programme, on which it reported in early 2012: and reviewed the market for board effectiveness facilitators and agreed to The 2012 review concluded that the Committee continues to re-appoint Egon Zehnder.
operate effectively, although there was a slight diminution in the overall score.
Priorities for 2013 In 2013, the Committee will continue to carry out regular reviews of the balance of skills and experience on the Board against the skills matrix that has been developed and will seek to make further progress towards achieving the Board diversity targets that have been set.
Executive succession will continue to be high on the Committees agenda.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 51 Corporate governance report Accountability Board Audit Committee Chairmans Report Sir Michael Rake, Chairman of the Board Audit Committee, reports on how the Board Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities during 2012.
Chairmans overview of 2012 The work of the Committee in 2012 has seen us address three main themes.
First, accounting judgements, particularly in respect of provisions to be made for product mis-selling.
Secondly, the impact on the systems and controls in place at each of Barclays businesses arising from increasing regulatory demands and rising consumer expectations.
And thirdly, the remediation programmes in place to enhance our internal control and regulatory compliance systems and procedures.
June 2012 saw the announcement of the penalties imposed on Barclays relating to the industry-wide investigation into the setting of interbank offered rates and this impacted the Committees agenda in the second half of the year.
I report on all of these matters in more detail below.
The approach of our regulators to regulation has continued to be intensive and intrusive, particularly in anticipation of the implementation of the new 'twin-peaks' model of regulation in the UK and the additional focus on conduct risk and outcomes for consumers.
During 2012, I held a number of meetings with Barclays regulators in June 2012 saw the announcement of the UK and US to discuss our approach to financial reporting, internal controls and regulatory compliance and to hear from them what they penalties imposed on Barclays relating to expect of the Board Audit Committee and Barclays in this regard.
I also interacted regularly with the lead audit partner of Barclays the industry-wide investigation into the external auditors.
setting of interbank offered rates and I reported after each Committee meeting to the Board on the main this impacted the Committees agenda.
matters discussed in Committee meetings to ensure that all Directors were kept informed of the Committees agenda.
I also made myself Sir Michael Rake available if any Director wished to discuss any particular matters with Chairman, Board Audit Committee me in more detail.
Committee composition, skills and experience Membership of the Committee and attendance at meetings held in 2012 is set out opposite.
Tim Breedon joined the Committee with effect from 1 March 2013.
Sir Andrew Likierman and I are the designated financial experts on the Committee for the purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, although each member of the Committee has a depth of financial expertise and collectively, the Committee has considerable financial and financial services experience on which to draw.
More information on the skills and experience of the Committee Independent Member Meetings eligible to attend members may be found in the Directors biographies on pages 67-69.
Sir Michael Rake Chairman Yes The Committee is conscious of the need to keep its knowledge up to a Alison Carnwath date and, in early 2012, Committee members attended two briefing to 24 July 2012 Yes sessions on algorithmic trading, covering both the principles of Fulvio Conti Yes algorithmic trading and the control mechanisms in place.
Simon Fraser Yes a Sir Andrew Likierman Yes Ahead of each Committee meeting, I held a private meeting with the members of the Committee at which we discussed any particular items Lawrence Dickinson Secretary that they wished to raise during the meeting.
I also made myself available Attended Did not attend if any Committee member wished to discuss any particular matters with me and I was in regular contact with management, including the Group Note Finance Director and Chief Internal Auditor during 2012. a Unable to attend one meeting owing to prior commitments.
Board Audit Committee allocation of time % 2012 2011 1 1 Control issues 13 4 2 2 Financial results 31 42 3 Internal audit matters 14 6 6 4 External audit matters 6 6 5 Business control environment 14 23 6 Other including Governance and Compliance 22 19 5 4 3 52 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Board Audit Committee Chairmans Report Committee responsibilities and how they were discharged in 2012 We also reviewed the judgements made in respect of tax, in The Committee is responsible for: particular, deferred tax assets in Spain and the US, including their recoverability.
We supported managements assumptions, based on current forecasts.
We reviewed the level of tax provisioning in light monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting and satisfying itself that any significant financial judgements made by of ongoing discussions with HMRC.
We believe that the current level of provisions is reasonable: management are sound: monitoring the Groups internal controls, including internal financial At the request of the Board we considered whether the 2012 Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable and whether controls: and it provided the necessary information for shareholders to assess monitoring and reviewing the activities and performance of the Barclays performance, business model and strategy.
We were internal and external auditor, including monitoring their satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced independence and objectivity.
and understandable: We reviewed the Groups credit impairment charges, which have You can obtain the Committees full terms of reference on the reduced overall in 2012, to satisfy ourselves with the corporate governance section of Barclays website.
appropriateness of the provision: The Committee met 10 times in 2012 and the chart opposite shows the We received reports from the Investment Bank Valuations way in which we allocated our time.
Committee meetings were Committee on the processes followed and the judgements made in attended by management, including the Group Chief Executive, Group valuing certain asset classes, in particular, those assets where there Finance Director, Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Risk Officer and General is little or no market data.
We were content with the rigour of the Counsel, as well as representatives from the businesses and other processes and the resulting valuations: functions from time to time.
The external auditor attended each Given ongoing uncertainties in the Eurozone, we reviewed and meeting and the Committee held regular private sessions with the agreed enhanced disclosure of Barclays exposures in selected Chief Internal Auditor and the external auditor, which were not Eurozone countries, including sovereign debt exposures, and attended by management.
These private sessions allowed us to discuss Barclays disclosures in respect of re-denomination risk for certain matters directly with the audit teams.
countries: The main matters and areas of judgement we reviewed and considered We reviewed disclosures on litigation and competition and during 2012 were as follows: regulatory matters contained in Barclays full and half-year results and trading statements, in particular, the statements made with Financial Reporting and Significant Financial Judgements respect to investigations by the Financial Services Authority, Serious With the support of the external auditor, the Committee assessed Fraud Office, US Department of Justice, and the US Securities and whether suitable accounting policies had been adopted, whether Exchange Commissions investigation into Barclays relationships management had made appropriate estimates and judgements and with third parties who assist it to win or retain business.
We also whether disclosures were balanced and fair.
The main areas of focus in reviewed the disclosure made in respect of civil claims made in 2012 and matters where we specifically considered the judgements connection with Barclays role in the setting of interbank offered that had been made are set out below: rates: and We considered the presentation of the financial statements and in We received an update on future accounting standards changes particular, the presentation of adjusted performance and the and the potential impact that these may have on Barclays financial adjusting items, including own credit, provisions for product statements, particularly the impact of IFRS 10 Consolidated mis-selling redress and the gain on the disposal of Barclays interest in Financial Statements and IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
Some of these BlackRock, Inc. We discussed the treatment of the LIBOR penalties new accounting standards will apply for the financial year 2013 and and agreed with managements judgement that these should not be we will continue to assess the impact on our financial statements.
treated as an adjusting item: Internal control We received reports on the assumptions underlying the provisions To discharge our responsibility to review the effectiveness of the made for product mis-selling redress, specifically PPI and Interest Groups internal controls, we received specific control environment Rate Hedging Products.
The trend in PPI claims has proved to be reviews from each of the businesses, we reviewed control issues of volatile during 2012, resulting in provisions being taken in both the Group level significance and specific control issues and also received first quarter and the third quarter.
A provision for Interest Rate regular reports on regulatory and compliance matters.
Some of the Hedging Products was taken at the half-year.
We were content after specific matters we reviewed in 2012 are set out below: due challenge and debate with the assumptions made and the judgements applied.
As part of reviewing the results for 2012, we considered a recommendation from management that further We reviewed the control environment of each of our principal businesses: Europe RBB: UKRBB: Africa: Investment Bank: provisions should be taken in respect of PPI and Interest Rate Hedging Products in the financial results for 2012 and, having Barclaycard: Corporate Banking: and Wealth and Investment Management.
Given the planned integration of Absa and Barclays reviewed the trend data and provisioning assumptions, agreed with managements recommendation: Africa, which is a major change programme, we were particularly concerned to understand the potential impact on resources in In reviewing the results for 2012, we reviewed the assessments made those businesses as they integrate and automate and standardise for goodwill impairment and confirmed, based on managements processes and controls: expectations of future performance of certain businesses, that no goodwill impairment charges were required in 2012: Technology remained an area of specific focus in 2012, particularly in view of a number of well-publicised IT failures at certain banks and the impact of such failures on business continuity.
We regularly reviewed specific IT-related control issues and also the progress of barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 53 Corporate governance report Accountability continued Board Audit Committee Chairmans Report continued the remediation work that is under way to address them.
We also Internal Audits self-assessment of conformance, which we reviewed received an update on cyber-security threats and the defences in the fourth quarter of 2012, evidenced that the function generally Barclays has in place against cyber attacks: conforms to the standards set by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
During 2013, an external assessment of the performance of the Internal The control environment in the Investment Bank was regularly Audit function will be conducted and the results will be reported to reviewed, including reviewing the specific action plans that are the Committee.
in place to enhance the control environment and in particular, to enhance the Compliance function.
We will continue to review External Audit this important workstream in 2013: It is our responsibility to monitor the performance, objectivity and We received regular updates on compliance matters.
These independence of the external auditor.
Each year, we agree the audit included updates on the actions being taken to comply with the plan with the auditor to ensure that the coverage is focused and that Deferred Prosecution Agreement DPA entered into as part of the there is appropriate overlap with the work of Internal Audit.
We also settlement with US authorities following an investigation into agree the terms of the engagement letter and approve, on behalf of the Barclays compliance with US sanctions and US Dollar payment Board, the fees payable for the audit.
practices: all of the actions required by the DPA were completed in 2012.
Further details of Barclays compliance with the DPA may be To discharge our responsibility to assess the performance and found in the Risk management Supervision & Regulation section effectiveness of the auditor, we carried out a survey in the fourth of the Annual Report: quarter of 2012, seeking views from key stakeholders across the Group.
The survey gathered views on the performance and effectiveness of We also received a number of updates on Anti-Bribery and  PwC.
The results were reported to the Corruption, Anti-Money Laundering and Client Assets compliance: Committee in early 2013 to help inform the Committees deliberations We were updated on the arrangements Barclays has in place for on the auditors performance and whether the auditor should be employees to raise concerns and received reports on any incidents recommended for re-appointment.
A more detailed follow-up survey reported and investigated.
There was a small increase in the will be conducted at the end of the first quarter of 2013 following number of reports and concerns raised by employees following completion of the year-end audit.
the LIBOR announcement, although no new material issues were raised.
We continue to regard employee reports as a valuable PwC and its predecessor firms has been Barclays auditor for many source of information that helps identify fraud, inappropriate years, since 1896, although the lead audit partner now rotates every behaviour and control weaknesses: and five years.
Based on the 2012 survey results and the Committees own interactions with PwC, the Committee concluded that it continues We received an update on the likely direction to be taken by the to be fully satisfied with the performance of PwC and that PwC Conduct Business Unit of the FSA in respect of the governance of continues to be objective and independent.
The auditors objectivity conduct risk and will be considering this further in 2013. and independence is supported by Barclays policy on non-audit services provided by the auditor, which is described on page 55.
Further details of the Groups system of internal control and risk PwC also provides specific assurance to the Committee on the management, including the main features of our internal control arrangements it has in place to maintain its independence and and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting objectivity.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board process, are included in the Directors Report on pages 64-66 and and to shareholders that PwC should be re appointed as the Groups in the Risk management section on pages 313-343. auditors at the AGM on 25 April 2013.
The Committee recognises however that the length of tenure of auditors is under increasing Oversight of Internal Audit and External Audit scrutiny and is therefore considering, in light of the new requirement Internal Audit in the Code that the external audit contract is put out to tender at To fulfil our responsibility to monitor the effectiveness of the internal least every ten years, how and when a tender process might be audit function, we received regular reports from the Chief Internal implemented, particularly given the transitional provisions suggested Auditor, setting out the Internal Audit functions view of the control by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
A recommended course of environment and performance against any key indicators.
We also action will be proposed to the Board during 2013. regularly reviewed the Internal Audit Plan, any changes proposed and the level of resourcing available to the Internal Audit function.
A new Chief Internal Auditor was appointed in early 2012 and during the year provided the Committee with his views on the resourcing and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
2012 has seen a change in methodology in order to improve the effectiveness of internal audit by focusing audit resources on high-risk auditable entities.
In particular, the audit coverage of the Investment Bank has been increased.
Given the change in audit methodology, we reviewed and approved the annual Internal Audit plan for 2013 in early 2013.
The Chief Internal Auditor updated the Committee on the work that Internal Audit will carry out as a result of the LIBOR settlement, in order to meet the requirements of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC Order.
Regular audits of the LIBOR-setting process will be carried out on a six-monthly basis and a third party audit will also be conducted.
We received the first of these reports in late 2012.
54 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Board Audit Committee Chairmans Report continued Objectivity and independence Committee Effectiveness of the external auditor The performance of the Committee is reviewed each year as part of the Board Effectiveness Review.
This years review concluded The Committees responsibility to monitor and review the that the Committee continues to operate effectively, although objectivity and independence of the external auditor is supported there was a slight diminution in the overall score.
by a policy to govern the non-audit services that may be provided by the external auditor.
The policy sets out the circumstances in which the external auditor may be permitted to undertake non-audit services.
Allowable services are pre-approved up to but Priorities for 2013 not including 100,000, or 25,000 in the case of certain taxation services.
Any non-audit service that exceeds these thresholds For 2013, I anticipate the Committees areas of focus to be driven requires approval from me as Chairman of the Committee and primarily by the changing regulatory environment, particularly as must be robustly justified and, if appropriate, tendered, before it the new regulatory regime in the UK is implemented.
I closely review all requests for approval, particularly be seeking to ensure that the control remediation programmes any which concern taxation-related services, and specifically tax we already have in place are delivered, in addition to having advisory services, where our approach is not to use the auditor oversight of any action plans that arise from the controls unless there is a very strong case for not seeking an alternative workstream of the Transform Programme.
The Committee receives a quarterly report on non-audit services undertaken by the auditor so that it can monitor the types of services being provided and the fees incurred.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the auditor for non-audit work may be found in note 44 on page 310.
Significant categories of engagement undertaken in 2012 include tax compliance services for assignments initiated pre January 2011 in connection with our Sir Michael Rake expatriate and international assignees and attest and assurance Chairman, Board Audit Committee services in connection with the production of a report attesting to the effectiveness of controls in place at some of Barclays US based entities.
In each case, approval was only given after a full and thorough assessment of the value case for using the auditor and of the skills and experience that the auditor would bring to each assignment.
I also satisfied myself that there were safeguards in place to protect the objectivity and independence of the auditor.
Further details of the non-audit services that are prohibited and allowed under our policy can be found on our website, Barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 55 Corporate governance report Accountability continued Board Risk Committee Chairmans Report David Booth, Chairman of the Board Risk Committee, reports on how the Committee discharged its responsibilities in 2012.
From 31 January 2013, the Committee was renamed the Board Financial Risk Committee and oversight of operational risk was assumed by the Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee.
Chairmans overview of 2012 2012 has been another challenging year for the Committee.
Global economic conditions, particularly in the Eurozone, have driven much of our agenda.
We have been looking to take a more holistic view of risk management, partly in response to regulatory pressure so that we have an enterprise wide view of risk management that goes beyond the management of financial risks, such as credit risk, market risk and funding risk.
I held a number of meetings with Barclays regulators in the UK and US during 2012 to discuss our approach to risk management and to understand better our regulators areas of focus and how this might impact the remit of the Committee.
I continued this year to request that representatives from the business, that is, business unit employees with day-to-day operational responsibility for risk management, attend Committee meetings and present on specific issues.
This provided the Committee with a valuable We have been looking to take a more insight into how risk management principles are implemented in the business and gives a sense of the risk management culture in holistic view of risk management, so the business.
that we have an enterprise wide view I submitted a report after each Committee meeting to the Board, to of risk management that goes beyond ensure that all Board members were aware of the Committees areas of focus.
I continued to liaise with Sir Michael Rake, Chairman of the the management of financial risks.
Board Audit Committee, to ensure that both Committees had appropriate oversight of risk and control matters.
I also met regularly David Booth with the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Internal Auditor and the Group Chairman, Board Risk Committee Treasurer.
In July 2012, I joined the Board Remuneration Committee, which provides an opportunity for me to provide direct input into remuneration decisions from the perspective of risk management and control.
The Committee individually and collectively has experience in finance and financial risk management and that experience and knowledge was strengthened further in late 2012 with Member Independent Meetings eligible to attend the appointment of Tim Breedon to the Committee.
More information David Booth Chairman Yes on the skills and experience of the Committee members may be found Tim Breedon in the Directors biographies on pages 67-69.
The Committee is keen to from 1 December 2012 Yes ensure that it has sufficient knowledge and information to be able to a Reuben Jeffery Yes discharges its responsibilities effectively and during 2012, Committee Sir Andrew Likierman Yes members attended two specific briefing sessions, the first on a Dambisa Moyo Yes operational risk management, in light of increased regulatory focus a Sir Michael Rake Yes in this area, and the second an in-depth review of the Investment Banks balance sheet.
Lawrence Dickinson Secretary Attended Did not attend Committee responsibilities and how they were discharged in 2012 During 2012, the Committee was responsible for: Note a Unable to attend meetings because of prior commitments.
recommending to the Board the total level of risk the Group is prepared to take risk appetite to achieve the generation of shareholder value: Board Risk Committee allocation of time % monitoring risk appetite, including setting limits for individual types 2012 2011 1 of risk, e. g. credit, market, funding risk and operational risk: 5 1 Risk profile Risk appetite 4 including capital and monitoring the Groups risk profile: 3 liquidity management 61 45 2 Key risk issues 18 38 ensuring that management properly identifies principal risks and that 3 Internal control Risk policies 6 6 they are being appropriately managed: 4 Regulatory frameworks 5 4 5 Other including Remuneration 2 and Governance issues 10 7 56 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Board Risk Committee Chairmans Report ensuring that risk is taken into account during the due diligence We considered and approved the scenarios for Barclays internal stress phase of any strategic transaction: and testing exercise, including a reverse stress test, and later reviewed the results.
The stress tests included a potential Eurozone break-up providing input from a risk perspective into the deliberations of the scenario.
As in previous years, the stress testing exercises Board Remuneration Committee.
demonstrated that Barclays remains well-capitalised and profitable in a stress scenario: and You can obtain the Committees full terms of reference on the corporate governance section of Barclays website.
More information We considered risk appetite for 2013 and recommended it to the Board for approval.
Taking a 1 in 7 scenario and a 1 in 25 scenario, on risk management and the internal control framework is included in the Directors Report on pages 64-66 and in the Risk management we assessed the performance of agreed financial volatility parameters in those scenarios to establish if there are any potential section on pages 313-343. constraints.
While the financial volatility parameters are largely unchanged from the prior year, some were recalibrated.
The Committee met 10 times in 2012 and the chart opposite shows The proposed risk appetite for 2013 also allows for a higher level the way in which we allocated our time.
Committee meetings were of non-credit losses, given the impact in 2012 of such losses, attended by management, including the Group Finance Director, Chief for example, product mis-selling redress.
The Committee will Internal Auditor, Chief Risk Officer and General Counsel.
The external monitor risk appetite for 2013 and may revisit it in light of the auditor also attended each meeting.
From time to time, senior Transform Programme.
management below Board and Executive Committee level, including representatives of the risk management function at both Group and Key Risk Issues business unit level, attended meetings for specific items.
The Chief Internal Auditor, in addition to providing input on risk and control Some of the other specific matters we considered in 2012 were: matters presented to the Committee, also presented a regular, formal report on risk control issues.
We undertook two specific country and business risk reviews in 2012.
We reviewed our operations in India, where we primarily have Investment Banking business and support activities.
From that The way in which the Committee discharged its responsibilities during 2012 is described below: discussion, we asked for loan to deposit ratios on a country by country basis to be reported to the Committee as a key indicator.
We also reviewed our business in South Africa in view of the weak Risk Profile Risk Appetite economic outlook there and the difficult political environment, We considered the following matters in 2012: which present a number of challenges, particularly in terms of operational risk management.
The Committee was content with The Chief Risk Officer presented a quarterly Group Risk Profile Report, the actions being taken by management to address these providing an update on credit, market, funding and liquidity and challenges although asked to be kept informed of the progress operational risk in each of Barclays main businesses.
Given the of certain remediation programmes: continuing uncertainties in the Eurozone, our discussions focused primarily on the potential impact of the Eurozone debt crisis, Eurozone After the significant trading losses experienced at JPMorgan in sovereign risk and redenomination risk in our European businesses.
We 2012, we received a report from management on their received specific reports on Eurozone sovereign risk, including details understanding of what occurred in this incident and an assessment of Barclays scenario planning in the event of a country exiting the Euro.
of the risk management systems and controls in place over any In addition, we discussed the potential impact on our businesses of similar trading activity at Barclays.
After due consideration, the failure to resolve the US Fiscal Cliff.
We were also updated on specific Committee was satisfied with managements assessment that country risk for countries where the economic outlook may be appropriate systems and controls are in place: worsening or where there is risk to our businesses arising from We received a regular report on the progress of the enhancements political instability: that are being made to risk management systems and controls in The Group Treasurer provided a quarterly update on capital and our Investment Bank business in the US.
During 2012, given market conditions and the ongoing continue to monitor progress in 2013: uncertainty in the Eurozone, we held two additional meetings In view of continuing weak global economic conditions, we were specifically to discuss liquidity risk appetite and Barclays liquidity risk updated on Barclays credit rating strategy and on the potential management framework.
In view of the external environment, and impact on Barclays credit ratings should the UKs credit rating be taking into account the potential stresses on Barclays following the downgraded.
Having discussed and assessed the position, the announcement of the penalties imposed relating to the industryCommittee supported the recommended credit rating strategy wide investigation into the setting of interbank offered rates, for a and associated programme of engagement with ratings agencies: time over the summer we asked management to implement a revised liquidity risk management framework, in order to extend the time Each year the Committee reviews Tax Risk.
In early 2012, HMRC horizon period for Barclays liquidity and to reduce our overall balance issued a statement concerning the tax treatment of a repurchase of sheet leverage.
Also during 2012 we agreed to a revised limit debt by Barclays.
In light of that announcement, in its discussion on framework for Barclays US repo business.
Further details of Barclays Tax Risk the Committee focused on tax risk in Barclays Structured liquidity risk management framework can be found in the Risk Capital Markets business and on the steps being taken to enhance management section.
The Group Treasurer also updated the Barclays compliance with both the letter and spirit of its obligations Committee on regulatory changes in liquidity rules, on the under the HMRC Code of Practice.
After discussion and challenge, introduction of new facilities, such as the Funding for Lending the Committee was satisfied with the actions being taken by Scheme and on the potential impact of CRD IV: management and asked to be promptly advised should tax risk limits require further review: and barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 57 Corporate governance report Accountability continued Board Risk Committee Chairmans report continued We were updated on Barclays Leveraged Finance business, in particular, the performance of the portfolio and the level Committee Effectiveness of refinancing risk, which has reduced since the end of 2011.
Having reviewed the status, the Committee was content with the As part of the annual Board Effectiveness Review, the actions being taken by management to monitor and mitigate performance of the Committee is assessed.
This years review refinancing risk.
concluded that the Committee continues to operate effectively and there was a slight improvement in the overall score.
Internal Control and Risk Management Framework The Committee conducted its annual review of the Groups internal control and risk management framework GICAF to ensure it remains fit for purpose and concluded that it remained so.
More Priorities for 2013 details on the GICAF and the Principal Risks Policy can be found in the Directors Report on pages 64-66 and in the Risk management I expect the Committee in 2013 to continue to focus on section on pages 313-343.
During 2012, we were updated on conduct monitoring the risk to Barclays business from the ongoing weak risk and the potential areas of focus for the Conduct Business Unit of economic conditions in its main geographies.
This new focus on conduct risk is likely to have an impact on maintain our focus on capital and liquidity, particularly in view Barclays Principal Risks Policy and we will assess how conduct risk is of the implementation of CRD IV.
The Committee will also seek reflected in Barclays risk management framework.
to understand and act upon any changes required to Barclays risk management framework that might arise as a consequence The Committee spent a significant amount of time on operational of the new regulatory regime in the UK.
risk matters in 2012, including a specific in-depth briefing session on operational risk and the development of our operational risk management framework.
During the year we discussed the effectiveness of the operational risk control framework and whether Barclays control environment is effective relative to the size and complexity of the business.
With input from Barclays Internal Audit, we subsequently looked in more detail at five businesses, Absa, Barclays Africa, Investment Bank US, Wealth & Investment David Booth Management US and Continental Europe, to assess the general Chairman, Board Risk Committee control environment and the resulting levels of operational risk in the context of any growth plans for those businesses.
We were satisfied that any growth plans for those businesses are appropriate to the control environment.
Due diligence The Committee reviewed the due diligence process followed for the acquisition of certain portfolios from Edcon Proprietary Limited and ING Direct UK, to satisfy itself that the due diligence process in each case was thorough.
This included reviewing the impact of each transaction on Barclays risk profile and risk appetite.
In both cases, the Committee concluded that the due diligence process had been thorough and that the size and the impact of the acquisitions could be accommodated within the Group's agreed risk appetite.
Remuneration The Committee provided input to the Board Remuneration Committee on the risk metrics to be used to determine financial performance and reviewed the risk functions view of performance, which was used to inform remuneration decisions for 2012.
The risk perspective took into account specific matters, such as product mis-selling redress, the penalties relating to the industry-wide investigation into the setting of interbank offered rates and, at the Committees request, internal control issues.
The Remuneration Report on page 72 includes more detail on how risk is taken into account in remuneration decisions.
58 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Board Citizenship Committee Report Committee composition, skills and experience The Committee was established in August 2011 and during 2012 was responsible for the oversight of Barclays conduct with regard to its corporate and societal obligations and its reputation as a responsible corporate citizen.
The Committee was also responsible for: Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of Barclays citizenship strategy, including the management of significant reputational, social and environmental issues: and Ensuring the fulfilment of the Boards objective to protect and enhance the brand and reputation of Barclays and ensuring that Barclays is Treating Customers Fairly TCF.
From the end of January 2013, the Committee was renamed the Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee.
You can obtain the Committees full terms of reference on the corporate governance section of Barclays website.
During 2012, the Committee comprised two non-executive Directors and the Chairman, who chaired the Committee.
Membership of the Committee is set out opposite, together with attendance at meetings in 2012.
Sir David Walker joined the Committee on his appointment to the Board on 1 September 2012 and took over as Chairman of the Committee on 1 November 2012.
Tim Breedon joined the Committee While retaining its responsibility with effect from 1 February 2013 and Diane fide Saint Victor joined the Committee with effect from 1 March 2013. for oversight of Barclays citizenship Committee responsibilities and how they were discharged in 2012 strategy, the Committee in 2013 The Committee met twice in 2012.
The chart opposite shows how the Committee allocated its time at those meetings.
During the year, the will focus on developing Barclays Committee conducted the following business: approach to conduct risk.
Reviewed the citizenship disclosure in the 2011 Annual Report: Received an update on Barclays citizenship strategy and discussed Sir David Walker the five-year citizenship plan: Chairman, Board Citizenship Committee Reviewed the plans for the 2012 Barclays Citizenship Day: Reviewed the activities of the Global Investment Committee, which manages Barclays community investment programme: Conducted in-depth reviews of regional citizenship activity in Barclays businesses in the UK, US and Africa: Received updates on specific areas of focus such as supply chain management, human rights, complaints and agricultural commodities trading: Reviewed and approved Barclays reputational risk control framework and policy: and Member Independent Meetings eligible to attend a Received an update on Barclays TCF agenda and discussed Sir David Walker On the progress made against objectives.
from 1 September 2012 appointment Marcus Agius On resigned 31 October 2012 appointment Dambisa Moyo Yes Committee Effectiveness Sir John Sunderland Yes The performance of the Committee was reviewed as part of Lawrence Dickinson Secretary the Board Effectiveness Review.
The review concluded that the Committee had operated effectively, although it was recognised Attended Did not attend that it was in its first full year of operation and its role and Note responsibilties will become more defined in future.
a Member of the Committee since 1 September 2012, becoming Chairman from 1 November 2012.
Priorities for 2013 Board Citizenship Committee allocation of time % With effect from 31 January 2013, the Committees remit was 2012 1 5 1 Citizenship strategy 39 broadened to include conduct, reputation and operational risk and 2 Reputation Issues it was renamed the Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational including reputation risks 11 Risk Committee.
It will retain responsibility for oversight of Barclays 3 Regional Citizenship activities 18 citizenship strategy.
The Committee is expected to focus in 2013 on 4 Policy and Business issues including conduct issues 29 developing Barclays approach to conduct risk in the context of the UK 4 5 Other 3 regulators new focus on conduct risk and outcomes for consumers.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 59 Corporate governance report Relations with Shareholders Shareholder type Barclays Investor Relations is dedicated to managing long term relationships with institutional investors and sell-side Institutional analysts.
A structured Investor Relations programme is in place to ensure regular communication with shareholders Shareholders and access to the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director as well as senior management from across the business.
Shareholder engagement is spread throughout the year, with particular focus around results periods, which provide the opportunity for regular dialogue with current and prospective investors.
Approximately half of our investor engagement is conducted by executive management, with the remainder led by Barclays Investor Relations.
In addition to the global programme of investor meetings, Barclays also participates regularly in investor conferences designed to provide access to a wider audience.
Barclays also hosts seminars for investors and analysts on business specific topics led by senior management.
Relationships with sell-side analysts are maintained through regular dialogue with Investor Relations and formal briefings with executive management.
Views expressed by shareholders are communicated effectively to the Board.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director also meet regularly with Barclays larger shareholders to hear their views on corporate governance matters, including remuneration and Board composition.
A dedicated Debt Investor Relations team within Investor Relations was set up in the autumn of 2012, with the aim of Debt proactively engaging with fixed income investors and credit analysts in a way that presents a single equity and debt Investors face to the market.
The team has led numerous meetings, including supporting Treasury in the global marketing of the Contingent Capital Notes issuance in November 2012, and is the primary contact for credit rating agencies.
The Debt Investor Relations team has also launched a new debt focused section in the Investor Relations section of Barclays website, which provides information on the Groups capital, funding and liquidity positions as well as credit ratings.
During 2013, Debt Investor Relations will continue to work closely with Treasury to deliver structured, targeted and disciplined debt investor engagement.
Barclays has a large private shareholder base and understands the need to treat all shareholders fairly, following Private industry best practice in terms of disclosure.
Shareholders We recently re-consulted all of our private shareholders on how they would like to receive their shareholder information.
We believe that communicating electronically with our shareholders ensures that they receive regular, up to date information about Barclays directly to their inbox.
For example, we email all Barclays e-view members with our quarterly financial results and dividend information.
They can also vote online for AGMs, view any transactions on their shareholding, instantly update their personal and bank details and receive an electronic dividend tax voucher.
It is also beneficial for the environment and lowers costs for Barclays.
We therefore actively encourage private shareholders to join Barclays e-view.
Shareholders can sign up to Barclays e-view at www.
We also encourage our private shareholders to hold their shares in Barclays Sharestore, where shares are held electronically in a cost-effective and secure environment.
We maintain a dedicated email address and Barclays Shareholder Helpline with our registrars so that our shareholders can easily contact them if they have any questions about their shareholding.
In order to ensure that the registrar provides the highest quality of service to our shareholders, we regularly monitor their operational performance via monthly meetings at which management information on transactions undertaken by the registrar are discussed in detail, together with service level reports.
We are aware that, sometimes, shareholders do not keep their personal details on the shareholder register up to date.
We recently conducted a tracing process using our search agent, Prosearch, to reunite over 24,000 Barclays Sharestore members identified by the registrar as having lost contact with us, with their shares and unclaimed dividends.
As at 31 December 2012, we had returned 1.8m of unclaimed dividends to our shareholders.
A wide range of information for all our shareholders can be found on our website Barclays.
We ensure that all documents produced for investor events are provided on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Private shareholders can discuss their concerns with us by email: @barclays.
com or in writing to Shareholder Relations at Barclays PLC, 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP.
60 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Remuneration Statements of Compliance Sir John Sunderland, who became Chairman of the Remuneration UK Corporate Governance Code Committee in July 2012, reports on the Board Remuneration As Barclays is listed on the London Stock Exchange, we comply with Committees activities during 2012 in the remuneration report the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
A revised Code came on pages 72-103. into effect in 2012, applying to financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2012.
Having adopted some of the provisions of the Code early, Barclays has chosen to report in this report as though the revised Relations with Shareholders Code was in effect throughout 2012.
For the year ended 31 December 2012, we have complied with the relevant provisions set out in the Understanding the views of shareholders Code and applied the principles of the Code as described in this report, Part of the Chairmans responsibility is ensuring that there is effective except as disclosed below: communication with shareholders.
The Chairman is in regular contact Provision A.
2.1 of the Code requires that the roles of chairman and with institutional shareholders and reports back to the Board on any chief executive are not exercised by the same individual.
For a period significant issues that are raised.
The Group Chief Executive, Group during July and August 2012, Barclays was without a Chief Executive Finance Director and Senior Independent Director also had regular and Marcus Agius, the then Chairman, became full-time Chairman contact with shareholders during 2012 and the Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Executive Committee.
The terms of Mr Agiuss Remuneration Committee also held a series of meetings with key appointment as full-time Chairman provided that he could not shareholders to discuss the Groups remuneration structure and policy.
exercise any executive powers without prior discussion with the Executive Committee.
The appointment of Mr Agius as full-time During 2012, the Board received the results of an investor audit, Chairman was a short term measure pending the appointment of conducted by one of Barclays investor relations advisers, which set out a new Chief Executive and, during this time, Barclays maintained views gathered from interviews with a number of Barclays investors on a strong non-executive Director element on the Board, including Barclays strategy, priorities, businesses, capital, funding and liquidity a Deputy Chairman, who was appointed in July 2012. and management.
It also provided a view on the outlook for stock market conditions.
Directors receive a weekly briefing note from the Provision D. 2.2 of the Code requires that the remuneration Group Chief Executive, which includes share price and market committee should have delegated responsibility for setting information.
Analyst notes are made available to Directors on remuneration for the Chairman.
The remuneration for Sir David a regular basis.
Walker, who was appointed as Chairman during 2012, was set by the non-executive Directors, led by Sir John Sunderland, Chairman of the Engaging effectively with investors Board Remuneration Committee, as part of the process of appointing Barclays understands the need to engage with its investors in a the new Chairman.
Barclays does not consider this to be any less meaningful way and for such communication to be transparent to effective than delegating the question of the Chairmans facilitate a mutual understanding of respective objectives.
Interaction remuneration to the Board Remuneration Committee.
with investors falls into four main areas: institutional shareholders, debt investors, private shareholders and the AGM.
Provision C. 3.7 of the Code requires that the external audit contract is put out to tender at least every ten years.
This requirement is a new General shareholder information can be found on Barclays provision in the Code that applies for financial years beginning on or website, Barclays.
Barclays external audit contract has not been re-tendered at any time in the past ten years.
Given the complexity AGM of the Barclays audit and the significant work that would be involved The Board as a whole understands the importance of communicating in putting the audit out to tender, Barclays is considering how it might effectively with shareholders and is committed to the constructive use comply with this provision in future, taking into account the nonof the AGM to meet with shareholders, hear their views and to answer binding transitional provisions suggested by the FRC which were their questions.
All Directors are required to attend the AGM.
They issued along with the revised Code.
all attended the 2012 AGM which was held on Friday, 27 April 2012.
The Chairman as well as the Chairmen of the Board Committees were Further information on the Code can be found at available to answer shareholders questions.
In accordance with best www.
uk practice, all resolutions were considered on a poll, which was conducted by the registrar and monitored by independent scrutineers.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules The results, along with proxy votes lodged prior to the meeting, were Certain additional information that is required to be disclosed pursuant made available on our website the same day.
The votes cast at the to DTR7.2.
6 may be found in the Directors Report on pages 62-66. meeting represented 60-67% of all the shares in issue and all resolutions were approved.
New York Stock Exchange NYSE NYSE rules permit Barclays to follow UK corporate governance practices The 2013 AGM, will be held on Thursday, 25th April 2013 at the Royal instead of those applied in the US, provided that any significant variations Festival Hall in London.
The Notice of AGM can be found in a separate are explained.
This explanation is contained in Barclays Form 20-F filing, document, which is sent out at least 20 working days before the which can be accessed from the Securities and Exchange Commissions meeting.
The Notice of AGM and the accompanying circular, which SEC EDGAR database or via the website www.
com sets out a clear explanation of each resolution to be proposed at the meeting, can also be found at www.
The resolutions will be considered on a poll and the results will be announced via the Regulatory News Service and made available on our website on the same day.
Shareholders unable to attend the AGM are encouraged to vote in Sir David Walker advance of the meeting via www.
Chairman They may also submit questions to the Board by writing to Shareholder Relations at the address given above.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 61
