Governance Statement of corporate governance Application of principles of good corporate governance There is, and historically there has been, throughout the company and the group, a commitment to high standards of corporate governance.
The directors continue to develop procedures which ensure that, where the board considers it appropriate, the Beazley group will comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Compliance with code provisions The board confirms that the company and the group have complied with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2012, with the exception of the fact that Gordon Hamilton and Ken Sroka were unable to attend the AGM due to other pressing business commitments.
The companys auditors have reviewed the companys compliance to the extent required by the UK Financial Services Authority for review by auditors of UK listed companies.
The board is accountable to the companys shareholders for good governance and the statements set out below describe how the main principles identied in the UK Corporate Governance Code have been applied by the group.
The board The board consists of a non-executive chairman, Dennis Holt, together with six independent non-executive directors, of whom George Blunden is the senior independent non-executive director, and six executive directors, of whom Andrew Horton is chief executive.
The non-executive directors, who have been appointed for specified terms, are considered by the board to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Biographies of current board members appear in the board of directors section of this report.
The biographies indicate the high level and wide range of business experience that are essential to manage a business of this size and complexity.
A well dened operational and management structure is in place and terms of reference exist for all board committees.
The roles and responsibilities of senior executives and key members of staff are clearly dened.
The full board meets at least five times each year and more frequently where business needs require.
The board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
This includes, inter alia strategic matters: statutory matters intended to generate and preserve value over the longer term: approval of financial statements and dividends: appointments and terminations of directors, ofcers and auditors: appointments of committees and setting of terms of reference.
It is responsible for the review of group performance against budgets: approving of risk management strategy and material contracts: determining of authority levels within which management is required to operate: reviewing the groups annual forecasts and approval of the groups corporate business plans, including capital adequacy and the own risk solvency assessment.
The board has also appointed an executive committee with delegated responsibility for particular matters such as considering the business plan, the underwriting, risk and regulations included the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems, investments and operations.
There is an agreed principle that directors may take independent professional advice if necessary at the companys expense, on the basis that the expense is reasonable.
This is in addition to the access which every director has to the company secretary.
The secretary is charged by the board with ensuring that board procedures are followed.
To enable the board to function effectively and directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress reports and discussion documents regarding specic matters.
All directors allocate sufficient time to the company to enable them to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
For the appointment of Dennis Holt as chairman, the nomination committee prepared a job specication, including an assessment of the time commitment expected.
The terms and conditions of appointment of all the non executive directors set out the expected time commitment and they have undertaken that they have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
Any changes to other significant commitments of the chairman and the non executive directors would be reported to the board as they arose.
The composition of and appointments to the board of both executive and non-executive directors are considered by the nomination committee.
The recommendations of the nomination committee are ultimately made to the full board, which considers them before any change is made.
All directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the board and the chairman regularly reviews and agrees with each director their training needs, to ensure that they continually update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the company, as required to full their role both on the board and on any board committee of which they are a member.
The remuneration committee considers any remuneration package of executive directors before it is offered to a potential appointee.
The members of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees are set out on page 64.
The board is complying with the provision on annual re-election of all directors introduced by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Full details of directors remuneration and a statement of the companys remuneration policy are set out in the directors remuneration report.
Beazley Annual report 2012 63 Governance Statement of corporate governance continued Meetings with non-executive directors The chairman holds meetings as required with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
Board performance evaluation Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the board is required to undertake a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors, and for this to be externally facilitated every three years.
In 2012 an assessment of the effectiveness of the board and its committees was externally facilitated by Deloitte LLP.
This involved a review of board papers and information, attendance at board meetings and interviews with individual directors.
Deloitte also serves as advisor to the remuneration committee and the board has satisfied itself that this did not compromise its independence.
Individual attendance by directors at regular meetings of the board and of committees In addition to the five regular board meetings, there was a further meeting to consider potential corporate transactions.
Attendance at the meeting was high.
All the directors also attend an annual strategy day.
Attendance at the regular board and committee meetings is set out in the table below: Audit and risk Remuneration Nomination Board committee committee committee No.
Director meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended J G W Agnew 22 11 G P Blunden 55665 555 M L Bride 55 A P Cox 54 J G Gray 53 A G K Hamilton 55662 255 D Holt 553 355 D A Horton 55 33 P J OConnor 555 5 N P Maidment 55 V J Sheridan 5566 K P Sroka 555 5 R W Tolle 5464 C A Washbourn 55 On 27 March 2012 Jonathan Agnew resigned from the board and nomination committee.
Dennis Holt was appointed as chairman of the board and of the nomination committee on 27 March 2012.
Dennis chaired 4 board meetings and 4 nomination committee meetings in 2012.
Board committees The group has established properly constituted audit, remuneration and nomination committees of the board.
During 2012, the audit committee was reconstituted as the audit and risk committee.
Audit and risk committee The board has delegated oversight of audit and risk matters to a newly constituted audit and risk committee which currently comprises Gordon Hamilton committee chairman, Vincent Sheridan, George Blunden and Rolf Tolle.
The committee regularly meets without any executive management being present and the committee holds regular meetings with the head of internal audit and with the external auditor.
The committees main audit related objectives are, inter alia: to monitor the integrity of the groups financial statements and any other formal announcements relating to the groups financial performance: review critical accounting policies, significant financial reporting judgements, the going concern assumption, compliance with accounting standards and other requirements under applicable law, regulations and governance codes applicable to the financial statements, before submission to and approval by, the board, and before clearance by the external auditors: review the groups internal financial controls and the groups internal control and risk management systems: approve the appointment, or termination of the appointment, of the head of internal audit and monitor and review the effectiveness of the groups internal audit function: and review the arrangements by which employees of the group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Beazley 64 Annual report 2012 Governance The committees main risk related objectives are, inter alia: advise the board on the groups risk management framework, which includes the risk management objectives, risk appetite, risk culture and the assignment of risk management responsibilities, review risk reports and management information to enable a clear understanding of the key risks and controls in the business, review any breaches of risk appetite and the adequacy of proposed action, review the identication of future risks, including considering emerging trends and future risk strategy and review the remit of the risk management function and ensure it has adequate resources and appropriate access to information to enable it to perform its function effectively.
The committee also reviews any matters raised by the external auditors and internal audit, including significant audit adjustments if any.
The chief executive, the finance director, and the chief risk officer are invited to attend part of each meeting of this committee.
The audit and risk committee received a number of presentations during the year on operational and underwriting activities.
The external auditors are invited to attend meetings regularly.
The auditors have unrestricted access to the members of the audit and risk committee, and the committee ensures that meetings are used as a forum for discussion and communication between Beazleys assurance functions, the external auditors and the board.
The committee receives regular updates and monitors the status of actions taken by management to address issues raised by both external and internal audit.
In 2012, Deloitte LLP facilitated the review of the effectiveness of the audit and risk committee and feedback has been formally reported to the board.
In respect of any rm of external auditors and consulting actuaries which may be appointed by any group company, the audit and risk committee is also responsible for recommending their appointment and termination: recommending their terms of reference: receiving regular reports, independent of management where necessary: determining their independence: monitoring their performance: and approving their fees and terms of engagement.
The audit and risk committee has developed and implemented a policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditors.
The objective is to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair the external auditors objectivity.
The policy specically disallows certain activities to be undertaken by the auditors, such as bookkeeping and accounting services, internal actuarial services and executive remuneration services.
The policy requires pre-approval for all other material services, such as due diligence assistance, tax services and advice on accounting and audit matters.
The aim is to limit the total spend on non-audit services to a maximum of the annual audit fee, unless it is deemed to be in the shareholders interest from an efficiency and effectiveness point of view.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year under review is disclosed in note 6 to the financial statements.
All of these are considered by the audit and risk committee not to affect the auditors independence or objectivity.
The committees terms of reference are published on the companys website.
Remuneration committee The remuneration committee comprises Padraic OConnor as the chairman, Dennis Holt appointed 9 May 2012, George Blunden and Ken Sroka.
Gordon Hamilton stepped down from the committee on 9 May 2012.
The work of the remuneration committee is covered further in the directors remuneration report.
Copies of executive directors service contracts and the terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the companys ofce during normal business hours.
The terms of reference of the remuneration committee are published on the companys website.
Nomination committee The nomination committee consists of Dennis Holt as the chairman, together with George Blunden, Gordon Hamilton and Andrew Horton, who was appointed on 19 July 2012.
Jonathan Agnew left the committee on 27 March 2012.
It meets as required and makes recommendations to the board on all board appointments, including the selection of non-executive directors.
The nomination committee engaged Zygos to support the search for a new non-executive director which resulted in the nomination committee in 2013 recommending the appointment of Angela Crawford-Ingle.
Zygos are wholly independent of the company and of the group.
During the year, the committee reviewed the composition of the board committees and recommended the appointment of Andrew Horton to the nomination committee.
The committee has also considered the performance of, and succession plans for, the executive directors.
An independent assessment of the board and committees has been carried out in 2012 by Deloitte LLP and matters arising are being appropriately addressed.
The terms of reference of the nomination committee are published on the companys website.
Beazley Annual report 2012 65 Governance Statement of corporate governance continued Shareholder communication The company places great importance on communication with shareholders.
The annual report and accounts and the interim report will be available from www.
com and on request, will be mailed to shareholders and to other parties who have an interest in the groups performance.
The company responds to individual letters from shareholders and maintains a separate investor relations centre within the existing www.
com website, as a repository for all investor relations matters.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, as well as general presentations, attended by executive directors, after the preliminary and interim results.
The board is advised of any specic comments from institutional investors, to enable it to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put forward questions at the companys annual general meeting.
The company has the authority within its articles to communicate with its shareholders using electronic and website communication and to allow for electronic proxy voting.
Audit and internal control The respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in connection with the accounts are explained in the statement of directors responsibilities and the independent auditors report, together with the statement of the directors on going concern in the directors report.
The board confirms that there is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant compliance issues and risks facing the group.
All significant risks are captured in the Beazley risk register and monitored on a monthly basis.
The risk register and the relating internal capital assessment process are subject to review, challenge and approval by the board.
The board agreed the 2012 risk appetite for the group at the end of 2011 and, throughout 2012, the board has considered and acted upon the information presented to it in order to make risk based decisions against the 2012 risk appetite.
Key components of the risk management framework include monthly control self assessments and six monthly risk assessments, with ad hoc risk assessments being conducted when required.
These reports have been considered by the executive risk and regulatory committee each month and the audit and risk committee and board quarterly.
In addition, the board has considered the quarterly Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA report in the past year.
This risk management framework has provided the board with an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, monitoring and managing the risks to the company, and accords with the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code guidance.
The directors are responsible for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives within the risk appetite set by the board.
The key procedures that the directors have established to ensure that internal controls are effective and commensurate with a group of this size include: the day-to-day supervision of the business by the executive directors: review and analysis by the various group committees of standard monthly, quarterly and periodic reporting, as prescribed by the board: review of financial, operational and assurance reports from management: and the review of any significant issues arising from external audits.
The board therefore confirms that it has during 2012 reviewed the effectiveness of the groups risk management and internal controls including financial, operational and compliance controls, which have been in place throughout the year under review and continue to operate up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Further information on the role of the audit and risk committee is set out above.
The committee, on behalf of the board, approves the internal audit plan and any subsequent changes.
Internal audit reports directly to the audit and risk committee, whose terms of reference include approving the appointment, or termination of appointment, of the head of internal audit and monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys internal audit function.
Further information on risk management at Beazley is set out in the risk management report.
