Corporate Governance Statement continued The Committee has also reviewed and accepted the Remuneration Committee whistleblowing policy that has been put in place by the Investment Remuneration of the Chairman and the Directors is determined Manager under which its staff, in con dence, can raise concerns by the Board.
It is not considered necessary to have a separate about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or Remuneration Committee as the Directors are not currently other matters, insofar as they affect the Group.
employed by the Investment Manager and were not so employed within the last five years.
The remuneration of the Chairman and The Committee considers the risks associated with audit rms Directors is reviewed against the fees paid to directors of other withdrawing from the market and the relationship with the Groups specialist investment trusts and investment trusts of a comparable auditor.
The appointment of the auditor is reviewed each year size, as well as taking account of any data published by the and the audit partner changes at least every five years.
There are Association of Investment Companies.
no contractual obligations that restrict the Committees choice of auditor.
Attendance record The Board meets formally to review investment performance, Non audit service fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP include 6,000 financial reports and other reports of a strategic nature.
Board or excluding VAT relating to their review of the half yearly financial Board Committee meetings are also held on an ad hoc basis to statements and 198,000 relating to tax and structuring services consider particular issues as they arise.
In 2011 and 2012, a provided in connection with the acquisition of investments.
The signi cant number of additional meetings were held in respect of Committee considers whether the skills and experience of the the strategy to acquire more royalties.
Ad hoc meetings are also auditor make them a suitable supplier of the non audit service and anticipated to increase in the future whilst the Board seeks to add whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no new royalties to the portfolio.
threat to their objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit resulting from the provision of such services.
The following table sets out the number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings held during the year under On an annual basis, Ernst & Young LLP review the independence of review and the number of meetings attended by each Director.
their relationship with the Company and report to the Board, Scheduled providing details of any other relationship with the Investment Board Audit Manager.
The Board has concluded that Ernst & Young LLP are independent of the Company and the Investment Manager.
The Number of Meetings held 5 2 Board has taken account of all relevant factors relating to the Number of Meetings attended auditors independence including the ratio of audit to non audit fees Anthony Lea 5 2 on both a retrospective and prospective basis and concluded that Ian Barby 5 2 Ernst & Young LLP are independent of the Company and the Colin Buchan 5 2 Investment Manager.
The Committee has approved all audit and Oliver Baring 5 2 non audit fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP.
David Cheyne 3 1 Gordon Sage 3 2 The external auditor is invited to attend the Audit & Management Engagement Committee meetings at which the semi-annual and Mr Cheyne was appointed on 1 June 2012 and Mr Sage retired on 9August 2012. annual accounts are considered and at which they have the opportunity to meet with the Committee without representatives of Internal controls the Investment Manager being present.
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Companys systems of internal control and for reviewing their Membership of the Audit & Management Engagement Committee effectiveness, for ensuring that financial information published or Colin Buchan Chairman used within the business is reliable, and for regularly monitoring Ian Barby compliance with regulations governing the operation of investment Oliver Baring trusts.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the internal control David Cheyne systems on an ongoing basis to identify, evaluate and manage the Anthony Lea Companys signi cant risks.
As part of that process, there are procedures designed to capture and evaluate any failings or weaknesses and should a case be categorised by the Board as signi cant, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
The Board is not aware of any signi cant failings or weaknesses in the year.
32 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
