Directors Report continued Resolution 13 Authority to buy back shares Corporate Governance The resolution to be proposed will seek to renew the authority Full details are given in the Corporate Governance Statement on granted to Directors enabling the Company to purchase its own pages 29 to 34.
The Corporate Governance Statement forms part of shares.
The Directors will only consider repurchasing shares in the this Directors Report.
market if they believe it to be in shareholders interests and as a means of correcting any imbalance between supply and demand for Audit information the Companys shares.
As required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors in of ce at the date of approval of this report each Under the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the con rm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit maximum price which can be paid shall be the higher of i 5% information of which the Groups auditor is unaware and each above the average of the market values of the ordinary shares for Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit purchase is made and ii the higher of the price quoted for a the information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware last independent trade of, and b the highest current independent of that information.
bid for, any number of ordinary shares on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
In making purchases, the Company will Auditor deal only with member rms of the London Stock Exchange.
The The auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has indicated their willingness to Directors are seeking authority to purchase up to 26,575,357 continue in of ce and resolutions proposing their reappointment ordinary shares being 14.99% of the issued share capital, excluding and authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration for treasury shares, as at the date of this report.
This authority, unless the ensuing year will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
renewed at an earlier general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of next years Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Resolution 14 Amendment to the Articles of Association Secretary As a result of recent changes to tax and company law rules, with 19 February 2013 effect for financial years commencing on or after 6 April 2012, onshore investment companies are generally now permitted to pay out accumulated realised capital pro ts in the form of dividends.
While the Directors have no present intention of making use of such powers, they believe it prudent to provide the Company with the necessary exibility to do so should it prove appropriate in the future.
Resolution 14 seeks to amend the Companys Articles accordingly.
The Board is proposing to update Article 139 to permit distributions out of capital pro ts and for Article 126 to be amended to re ect the changes to Article 139.
The opportunity will also be taken to update the relevant tax legislation reference in Article 138.
A copy of the Articles, showing the proposed changes, will be available for inspection at the Companys registered of ce.
Recommendation: As each Director has an interest in resolution 10, the Board does not believe it appropriate to make a recommendation to shareholders in relation to voting in respect of that resolution.
The Board considers that each of the other resolutions is likely to promote the success of the Company and is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of these resolutions as they intend to do so in respect of their own bene cial holdings.
26 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
