Corporate Governance Compliance with the Code Details of attendance of the individual members of the Board at its The Directors are committed to a high standard of corporate meetings during the year is shown in the table below.
governance and to compliance with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which was Maximum Possible issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2010.
The following Attendance Attendance statement, the Directors Remuneration Report, the Audit Henry Algeo 11 11 Committee Report, the Risk Committee Report and the Business Robin Bayford 11 11 Review: Finance explains how the provisions set out in the Code Barry Howard 11 11 have been applied by the Group and details the Groups 1 Nick Hood 44 compliance with the provisions of the Code for the year.
The Angela Knight 11 11 Sir Stephen Lamport 11 10 Directors consider that the Company has been in compliance with Jamie Matheson 11 11 the provisions set out in the Code throughout the 52 weeks ended David McCorkell 11 11 30 September 2012, except for the following circumstances: Simon Miller 11 11 2 David Nicol 66 Sarah Soar 11 10 t The requirement under the code B.
1.2 for at least half the Ben Speke 11 11 Board to comprise of Non-Executive Directors is not Michael Williams 11 11 beingmet.
Jock Worsley 11 11 1 resigned 24 02 12 2 t In designing schemes of performance-related remuneration, the appointed 01 03 12 remuneration of directors fully complies with the provisions in Section D to the Code, save for that of Michael Williams an The Non-Executive Directors frequently meet with the Executive Executive Director who does not fully comply with Section D. 1.1 Chairman and also on their own, without any executives present and Schedule A of the Code.
Michael Williams profit share at meetings led by the Senior Independent Director.
The Board participation is determined solely by reference to his own teams maintains a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board investment management performance on a strict formula in line which is reviewed annually by the Company Secretary and with other investment managers within the Group.
1 3 of profit approved by the Board.
The Board is regularly updated throughout share above 50,000 is paid in deferredshares.
the year and receives in advance of the monthly meetings, detailed board packs, which include an agenda based upon the schedule The Board of matters reserved for its approval and appropriate reports and At the end of the year the Board had thirteen members, comprising briefing papers.
The specific responsibilities retained by the Board eight Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
include: approving the annual budget: reviewing the Groups However, following the retirement of David McCorkell on operational and financial performance: approving major 22October 2012 the number of Executive Directors have reduced acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure: reviewing the to seven.
At present the requirement for at least half the Board to Groups systems of control and risk management: approving comprise of Non-Executive Directors is not being met.
This remains appointments to the Board and of the Company Secretary: under review as part of the work being carried out by the approving policies relating to Directors remuneration and the Nomination Committee and it is anticipated that the number of severance of Directors contracts: ensuring that a reasonable Non-Executive Directors will eventually increase to 6, which the discourse occurs with shareholders and establishing and Board considers is appropriate for the size of the Company.
In addition to the scheduled board Biographies of all the current Directors are presented on pages14 meetings, the Board also has a day devoted entirely to the Groups and 15.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered by the strategic objectives, which provides a further opportunity for all Board to be independent, notwithstanding the fact that Jock Directors and particularly the Non-Executive Directors, to ensure Worsley has served in excess of nine years on the Board.
The the strategy is on course, that KPIs are rigorously reviewed and the Non-Executive Directors provide a strong, independent element objectives are analysed and challenged.
Primary responsibility for on the Board and are well placed to constructively challenge and the day-to-day operations, the development and recommendations scrutinise the performance of management.
They bring robust of the Groups long-term objectives and the implementation of the opinions, knowledge and skill to the BDH Board discussions.
commercial strategy for the Group have been delegated to the The Board is in no doubt as to the continued independence of board of the principal operating company, Brewin Dolphin Limited Jock Worsley, his thinking, decision making and the rigorous level BDL Board.
All the Executive Directors on the Group Board also of challenge provided by him.
This separation of responsibilities across the two boards ensures that a range of skills and opinions on strategic and operational matters is applied across the Group.
22 Development Directors Conflicts of Interest Appropriate training and induction is made available to newly The Board has a policy and effective procedures for managing and, appointed Directors, taking into account any previous experience where appropriate, approving conflicts or potential conflicts of they may already have as directors of a public limited company or interest.
It is a recurring agenda item at all Board meetings and otherwise.
Training sessions are regularly undertaken for the entire gives each Director the opportunity to raise any conflict of interest Board and the Executive Directors have access on request to a they may have, or to update the Board on any change to a previous professional development trainer, who can provide individual conflict of interest already lodged.
A Register of Conflicts is held by executive training tailored to their requirements.
Executive members the Company Secretary and referred to when decisions are made.
of the Board have to date largely been appointed from within the A log of all conflicts raised is maintained and updated accordingly.
Group and have served on the Brewin Dolphin Limited Board prior All Directors are aware that it is their responsibility to raise and to appointment.
update any conflicts of interest they may have.
The Roles of the Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Committees of the Board Deputy Chairman The Board had four standing committees during the year: the There is a clear division of duties between the Executive Chairman Nominations Committee: the Remuneration Committee: the Audit and the Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, with terms of reference Committee and the Risk Committee.
These committees have that have been clearly defined in writing and which are reviewed written terms of reference, which are reviewed regularly and any annually and agreed by the Board.
This ensures that a clear amendments approved by the Board.
Membership of the balance of power and authority is present.
The Executive Committees is as set out on page 24.
The terms of reference of the Chairman, Jamie Matheson, has four direct reports: Finance Committees can be viewed on the Companys website, together Director Robin Bayford: Group Managing Director Henry Algeo: with Committee membership.
The Risk Committee was formed in Director of Human Resources Ben Speke and Head of Regulation October 2011, to adopt the risk management responsibilities of the and Risk BarryHoward.
Board Evaluation All the Committees are able to call on independent professional In line with the Code, a formal evaluation of the Board and its advisers if they consider it necessary.
Committees is carried out on an annual basis.
Last year an external evaluation of the Board was conducted by Trust Associates.
The Nomination Committee external facilitator selected was independent and had no other The majority of the members of the Nomination Committee are connection with the Company.
This year a questionnaire was Non-Executive Directors, the Committee consists of Sir Stephen compiled taking into account some of the suggestions from the last Lamport appointed Chairman 24 February 2012, Jock Worsley, review and was completed by all members of the Board.
The results Simon Miller, Angela Knight, David Nicol and the Executive were provided to the Board and the findings recommendations Chairman, Jamie Matheson.
Nick Hood previous Chairman discussed and reviewed.
There were no material areas of concern resigned from the Committee on 24 February 2012.
The role of highlighted and the report reaffirmed that the Board as a whole the Nomination Committee is to review the structure, size and functioned well and is comprised of members who understood the composition of the Board and to be responsible for the Boards nature and extent of the Boards responsibilities and its role within succession planning.
The report also confirmed that there is an open and challenging culture at theBoard.
During the year, the Nomination Committee took forward further work on the current succession plan, which included the successful Appointment of Executive and Non-Executive Directors recruitment of a replacement Finance Director and a Non-Executive The Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 Director following the retirement of Nick Hood.
The process of and other applicable regulations and policies govern the recruiting a further Non-Executive Director has been postponed, appointment of the Directors.
Sight of all Directors contracts, or, pending further clarification of the suitable expertise, knowledge in the case of Non-Executive Directors, letters of appointment, can and skill set which will fully meet the Boards future needs.
A be obtained via the Company Secretary.
Directors may be elected planned process for recruitment is in place, involving the entire by shareholders in a general meeting or appointed by the board Board in the selection process.
Specialist external search of directors in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of consultants, Odgers Berndtson were used in the recruitment of Association.
In accordance with the Code all directors will be the two new directors.
They had a specific remit to source the subject to re-election at the 2013 Annual General Meeting, skills, knowledge and experience required for the continued apart from David McCorkell who retired on 22 October 2012 success of the Board.
The Committee takes careful account of and Robin Bayford who will be retiring on 31 December 2012. the recent recommendations on diversity.
At the same time it is committed to providing equal opportunities for all and to appointing After due consideration, it is the view of the Board that both the and promoting on merit, while taking care to embrace the range of Executive and Non-Executive Directors continue to perform relevant skills and experience needed to ensure that the Board is effectively and it is appropriate for them to continue to serve as able to discharge its responsibilities properly.
The Board will be recommending that all directors be re-elected by shareholders.
The biographical details of the Directors can be found on pages 14 and 15.
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23 Corporate Governance continued A table detailing the attendance of the individual members of the Board Risk Committee committee during the year is shown below: The members of the Risk Committee are Simon Miller Chairman, Angela Knight, Jock Worsley and the Group Head of Regulation and Risk Barry Howard.
The Risk Committee Report is presented Maximum on page 26, which gives further information.
possible attendance Attendance 1 Details of meeting attendance of the individual members of the Nick Hood 11 Angela Knight 33 committee during the year are shown below: Sir Stephen Lamport 33 Jamie Matheson 33 Simon Miller 33 Maximum 2 David Nicol 22 possible Jock Worsley 33 attendance Attendance 1 resigned 24 02 12 B Howard 66 2 appointed 22 03 12 S Miller 66 A Knight 66 J Worsley 65 Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Simon Miller and the other members are Jock Worsley, Sir Stephen Lamport and Internal Control and Risk Management Angela Knight.
The Directors Remuneration Report is presented The Board undertakes a full review of all aspects of the Groups on page30, which gives further information.
business: identifies the main risks to the business and identifies the key controls to counter those risks.
The Board recognises that its A table detailing the attendance of the individual members of the risk management strategy is essential for achieving good business committee during the year is shown below: governance to protect stakeholders and enhance shareholder value.
The Board has adopted a risk-based approach to establish a system of internal control.
It reviews its effectiveness periodically, Maximum by receiving ongoing reports on internal control from the Audit possible Committee and the BDL Board which is informed by the attendance Attendance established Risk Committees.
1 Nick Hood 33 Angela Knight 65 Sir Stephen Lamport 64 The framework of the Risk Committees can be found on page 26.
Simon Miller 65 Jock Worsley 66 Day-to-day review and monitoring of risks has been delegated to 1 resigned 24 02 12 the Risk and Controls Committee RCC and Business Support Risk and Controls Committee of Brewin Dolphin Limited, the Audit Committee activities of which include overseeing and reviewing the controls, The members of the Audit Committee are Jock Worsley Chairman, monitoring and reporting frameworks and related procedures for Angela Knight, Simon Miller and David Nicol.
The Audit Chairman risk management.
will remain in his role through to the completion of the current calendar year end and then with effect from 1 January 2013, the The Regulation and Risk Department and Internal Audit also carry Chairmanship of the Audit Committee will pass to David Nicol, who out regular reviews.
Full details of the principal risks identified by is also a qualified Chartered Accountant.
Details of meeting the Board are set out in the Risk Committee Report on page 26. attendance of the individual members of the committee during the Business Continuity Management is embedded within the business year are shown below: and is reviewed and tested regularly.
The Board recognises the potential operational and financial losses associated with a service Maximum possible interruption and the importance of maintaining viable business attendance Attendance resilience strategies.
Angela Knight 77 1 Sir Stephen Lamport 44 The Directors are responsible for the system of internal control Simon Miller 77 2 established by the Group, reviewing its effectiveness and reporting David Nicol 33 Jock Worsley 77 to the shareholders that they have done so.
They report as follows: 1 resigned 24 02 12 2 appointed 01 03 12 i There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group as outlined above.
This has been in place for the period under review and up A separate Audit Committee Report is set out on page 28 and to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
It is provides details of the role, composition, responsibilities of the regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Committee and its relationship with internal and external auditors.
Any system of internal control is designed to questions formally at the meeting or more informally with all highlight and manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failure to members of the Board afterwards.
The Companys policy is to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable, announce the number of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
For shareholders who are clients of Brewin Dolphin Limited The Board has implemented the Three Lines of Defence model and who hold their shares in one of our nominee accounts, we to ensure a robust and effective framework to manage internal provide an on-line voting service on the Group website for controls and risks across the organisation.
It facilitates the decision shareholders to vote before our AGM.
making process while providing effective governance around risk management and assurance.
Model Code The Company has its own internal dealing rules which extend the ii Financial results, key operating statistics and controls are FSA Listing Rules Model Code provisions to all employees.
reported to the Board monthly, and variances are followed up vigorously.
Monthly reports are received from the Regulation and Risk and Internal Audit functions.
Angela Wright Secretary iii The Directors have reviewed the Groups system of internal 4 December 2012 controls and compliance monitoring and believe that these provide assurance that problems have been identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately throughout the period under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Both the Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee assist the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
iv There is a whistleblowing policy detailing the internal or external procedures through which employees are able to raise any concerns.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all Corporate Governance matters as well as ensuring good information flows within the Board and its Committees.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take, if necessary, independent, professional advice at the Companys expense.
Insurance The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of litigation against the Directors.
Relationship with Shareholders The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with shareholders and aims to keep shareholders informed by regular communication.
The Groups Executive Chairman, Finance Director and Group Managing Director meet regularly with the Groups institutional investors, analysts and financial press.
Annual and Interim reports are distributed to other parties who may have an interest in the Groups performance and the Groups website is kept up-to-date covering all corporate activity.
The Executive Chairman provides the Board with regular feedback following meetings with shareholders.
The Deputy Chairman also speaks to shareholders and is available to address their concerns.
The Company recognises the importance of ensuring effective communication with all of its shareholders.
Equity Development Limited, provide reports at least twice a year, written on the Group and are available to all shareholders on the web at www.
Regular reports are also available from Edison Investment Research, www.
The Company welcomes all shareholders to its AGM, with the opportunity to ask Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25
