Audit Committee Report Summary of the Role of the Audit Committee Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the Committee and the Executive Chairman, who is not a member of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Audit Committees Audit Committee, at regular intervals and they recommend any terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and changes to the Nomination Committee for onward recommendation Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
The terms of reference are to the Board.
The Audit Chairman will remain in his role through to considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred the completion of the current calendar year end and then with effect to the Board for approval.
from 1January 2013, the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee will pass to David Nicol, who is also a qualified Chartered Accountant.
The Audit Committee is responsible for: The Group provides an induction programme for new Audit t monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group Committee members and ongoing training to enable the committee and any formal announcement relating to the Groups financial members to carry out their duties.
performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein, prior to their submission to Meetings theBoard: The Audit Committee maintains a formal calendar of items that are to be considered at each committee meeting and within the annual t reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and the audit cycle, to ensure that its work is in line with the requirements of Groups internal control systems: the Code and meets its responsibilities.
The items to be reviewed are approved by the Audit Committee Chairman on behalf of his t monitoring the work of the Internal Audit function and reviewing fellow members.
Each member has the right to require reports on the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: additional matters of interest.
t reviewing regular reports from the Head of Regulation and Risk and keeping under review the adequacy and effectiveness of The Finance Director, Head of Regulation and Risk, Head of Internal the Companys Regulation function: Audit, Head of Investment Management, the Chief Operating Officer and the Company Secretary normally attend all Audit t reviewing the Companys procedures for handling allegations Committee meetings.
At the Committees request, other senior from whistleblowers and for detecting fraud: management are invited to present such reports as are required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
t making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to shareholders for their approval in the annual general The number of meetings and attendance for the year are on meeting, on the appointment of the external auditors and the page22 of the Corporate Governance Report.
approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: Overview of the actions taken by the Audit Committee to t reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence discharge its duties and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: and During the year, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference by undertaking the followingwork: t maintaining and reviewing the policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into t reviewed the Annual Report and Financial Statements, account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit half-yearly Financial Report and Interim Management services by the external audit firm.
In doing so, the Committee reviewed significant accounting policies, financial reporting issues and judgements The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, and received reports from the external auditor on their audit of identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action the Annual Report and Financial Statements and review of the or improvement is needed, making recommendations on the steps half-yearly Financial Report: to be taken.
t reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process, the Composition of the Audit Committee external auditors strategy and plan for the audit and the The members of the Audit Committee are: qualifications, expertise, resources and independence of the external auditors: Name Date of Appointment Qualification t reviewed and approved the Internal Audit annual plan, Jock Worsley 1 October 2003 FCA reviewed all reports from internal audit including management David Nicol 1 March 2012 CA responses to the findings of the reports and their proposals Simon Miller 27 October 2005 and evaluating the effectiveness of Internal Audit: Angela Knight 26 July 2011 Chairman t reviewed the Companys procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers and for detecting fraud: The Chairman of the Committee is a qualified Chartered t reviewed regular reports from the Groups Head of Regulation Accountant and the Board is satisfied that the other members of and evaluated the effectiveness of the Groups Regulation and the Committee are all financially literate.
Risk function: 28 t considered a report from the external auditors on their review of The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the the effectiveness of controls across the Group and received a Board the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external report on management action taken in response to the report: auditor.
It is the policy of the Board to undertake a major review of the appointment every six years.
t reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and disclosures made in the annual report and financial statements The Committee has considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of on this matter: the external auditor from the market and noted that there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditors.
t reviewed the Groups ICAAP: The external auditors meet privately with the Audit Committee t reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be at least twice a year without senior executive management undertaken by the external auditor and the fees to be paid to beingpresent.
the external auditors: An annual review of the effectiveness of the external auditors is t reviewed the Audit Committees own terms of reference: and carried out by the Audit Committee, taking into consideration: t reviewed its own effectiveness.
t the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors independence and objectivity: the external auditors fulfilment of The Audit Committee reports its findings to the Board, identifying the agreed audit plan: any matter on which it considers that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations on the steps to be taken.
t the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and External Auditors The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external t the content of the external auditors reporting on internal controls.
The policy sets out the categories of non-audit services and audit services which the external auditor will be allowed to Following the annual review of effectiveness, the Audit Committee undertake and provides an approval process for the provision of recommended to the Board that the reappointment of the auditors any other non-audit services.
This policy is available on the Investor be proposed to shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
Relations section of the Companys website, under the Board Committees subsection.
Internal Audit The Internal Audit function is outsourced to Grant Thornton LLP, The Board uses the auditors for audit and related activities.
It does not the Audit Committee assists the Board to fulfil its responsibilities use the auditors for non-audit services unless there are appropriate relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans of the Internal reasons for doing so, thereby retaining their objectivity and Audit function.
To fulfil these duties the Audit Committee reviewed: independence.
The majority of tax advisory and similar work is carried out by another major accountancy firm.
An analysis of auditors t Internal Audits methodology, reporting lines and access to the remuneration is provided in note 8 to the financial statements.
Audit Committee and all members of the board: To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external t Internal Audits plans and its achievement of the planned activity: auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: t the results of key audits and other significant findings, the t the external auditors plan for the current year, noting the role of adequacy of managements response and the timeliness of the senior statutory audit partner, who signs the audit report resolution: and and who, in accordance with professional rules, has not held office for more than five years, and any changes in the key t the timeliness of reporting.
audit staff: Overview t the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has relationship: concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the t a report from the external auditor describing their arrangements external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the committee.
t the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors, in addition to its case-by-case approval of the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor: and Jock Worsley Chairman of the Audit Committee t the past service of the auditors who were first appointed in 4 December 2012 April 2002 and reappointed following a review in 2007.
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29
