Risk Committee Report Summary of the Role of the Board Risk Committee identification, assessment and reporting of risks and reviewing The Board Risk Committee was formed in October 2011 in recognition and approving the statements to be included in the annual of the ever increasing importance and complexity of risk.
It has report concerning risk management: and assumed the responsibilities in relation to risk that were previously t the remit of the risk management function and ensuring it has under the remit of the Audit Committee.
The Board Risk Committee adequate resources and appropriate access to information to has oversight of the risk management framework of the Group and enable it to perform its function effectively and in accordance specifically the effectiveness of risk management, governance and with the relevant professional standards.
The Committee also regulation activity within the Group.
The Board Risk Committee ensures the function has adequate independence.
supports the Board in its consideration of the business activities that expose the business to material risks taking into account The Board Risk Committee reports on its proceedings to the Board forward-looking aspects of risk exposure.
The Committee advise the and on any appropriate matters to the Audit Committee, identifying Board on the considerations and process for setting the Risk Appetite any issues it considers that action or improvement is needed and and related tolerances.
The Board retains responsibility for approval making recommendations on the steps to be taken.
The Board of the Risk Appetite.
The terms of reference are reviewed annually by Risk Committee works closely with the Audit Committee in ensuring the Risk Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
that all aspects of the Groups risks are considered.
The Board Risk Committee is supported by the Risk Management Composition of the Board Risk Committee Committee which monitors risks and controls beneath which is a The majority of the members of the Board Risk Committee are Risk and Controls Committee which monitors the operational risks Non-Executive Directors, the Committee consists of Simon Miller and controls.
Chairman, Jock Worsley, Angela Knight and the Executive Director, Group Head of Regulation and Risk, Barry Howard.
The framework of the Risk Committees is shown below: Meetings The number of meetings and attendance for the year are on VHYK 9PZR VTTP[[LL VHYK page22 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Overview of the actions taken by the Board Risk Committee to discharge its duties 3 VHYK During the year, the Board Risk Committee discharged its responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference by undertaking the following work: 9PZR 4HUHNLTLU[ VTTP[[LL 94 t reviewing regular reports from the Group Head of Regulation and evaluating the effectiveness of the Groups Regulation and Riskdepartment: 9PZR HUK VU[YVSZ VTTP[[LL 9 t receiving regular reports from the Groups Risk Management Committee: t considering the output from the process used to identify, ZPULZZ : WWVY[ 9PZR HUK evaluate and mitigate risks: and VU[YVSZ VTTP[[LL t in conjunction with the Audit Committee reviewing the GroupsICAAP.
The Board Risk Committee is responsible for keeping under review: Risks and Uncertainties t the alignment of the Groups strategy to the risk appetite, The principal risks to the business are assessed and reviewed by tolerance and policy of the Board: the Risk Management Committee.
They are subsequently t the quality of the Group operating structure as a mitigation submitted to the Board Risk Committee for approval.
The principal and key control to Group-wide risks: risks are formally reviewed by the Board twice a year, following recommendation from the Board Risk Committee.
t the quality and timeliness of the companys overall risk assessment processes that inform the Boards decision making: The Groups risk management policies and procedures are discussed in both the Corporate Governance Statement and the t the companys capability to identify and manage new risk financial risks and risk management form part of note 26 to the types and the overall adequacy of stress testing: financial statements.
t any reports detailing any material breaches of risk limits and The inherent risk to our business which has a direct impact on the adequacy of proposed action: revenue, is adverse movements in the market in the short term.
t the adequacy and effectiveness of the companys risk management systems including procedures for the 26 At the Board meeting in October 2012 the following principal financial and non-financial risks were identified or reconfirmed: Risk Type Risk Key mitigants or controls Earnings Risk Loss of client facing staff t Firm wide staff share ownership and profit share t Contracts of employment with 6 months garden leave for all client facing staff t Remuneration structure and deferred profit share lock in staff Legal and Regulatory Risk Changing regulatory environment and t Strong and proactive Regulation and Risk function and regulatory breaches Internal Audit function Poor advice portfolio performance t Good in-house research including mis-selling t Business Standards Team reviews t Monitoring by the Regulation and Risk Department t Strong training and appraisal programme t Management Information monitoring t Treating Customers Fairly embedded into the ethos of thefirm Operational and ITRisk Business Continuity t Large branch network with back-up systems in place t Back-up computer site t Main server located outside of London Electronic dealing error e. g. Fat Fingers t Close management supervision t Integrated system error warnings t High value trade monitoring t Multiple validation on equity trading platform t E-ticket validation controls Project control t Regular meetings by project overview committee consisting of Senior Managers and Board Executives t Change Management governance for projects and programmes Significant Strategic Change t BDH Board approve new business initiatives after appropriate reviews and due diligence t Risk Appetite Statement Simon Miller Chairman of the Risk Committee 4 December 2012 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27
