42 Annual report 2012 Caledonia Investments plc Corporate governance report Statement of compliance All directors receive detailed papers in advance of board The board recognises the importance of good corporate meetings to enable them to discharge their duties and also have governance and this report describes how the company has unlimited access to senior management should further complied with The UK Corporate Governance Code issued information be required.
Presentations by senior executives of in June 2010. investee companies and external economic commentators are also arranged periodically to enable the board, and the nonShareholders registered on the companys New Zealand branch executive directors in particular, to gain a closer understanding register should note that the principles of good corporate of some of the companys signiicant investments and to assess governance set out in The UK Corporate Governance Code may macro-economic trends which may affect the companys business differ materially from the New Zealand Exchange Ltds corporate and strategy.
governance rules and the principles of its Corporate Governance Best Practice Code.
Appointment, induction and training The company complies with the recommendation of The UK A copy of The UK Corporate Governance Code is available Corporate Governance Code that all directors of FTSE 350 on the website of the Financial Reporting Council at companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
On appointment, new directors are offered induction and The board training considered appropriate by the board and subsequently Overall responsibility and operation as necessary, and the annual performance evaluation of the board The board as a whole is collectively responsible for the success of encompasses the identiication of any individual training need s the company and for supervising its affairs.
It sets the companys of board members so that these can be reviewed with the strategic aims, ensures that the necessary inancial and human Chairman.
The directors receive brieings at board meetings on resources are in place to enable the company to meet its regulatory and other issues relevant to the company and its objectives and reviews management performance.
It also sets the business sector and, in addition, the Company Secretary provides companys values and standards and ensures that its obligations details of, and where requested arranges attendance at, external to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
It aims to courses to assist in directors professional development.
provide leadership of the company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed Board composition and appropriately managed.
The biographies of the directors appear on pages 36 to 37.
To assist its operation, the board has adopted a Schedule of The board currently comprises twelve directors.
Excluding the Authorities which sets out those matters which it speciically Chairman, four of the directors are executive and seven are reserves for its own decision and those which are delegated to non-executive.
The board considers all of the non-executive board committees and to executive management.
Matters directors to be independent.
In assessing Mr Goblet dAlviellas reserved for the boards own decision include the following: independence, the board took account of his position as Executive Chairman of Soina S. A. whose wholly-owned subsidiary, O the appointment and removal of directors of the company, Rebelco S. A. has a 4.9% shareholding in Caledonia.
Mr Goblet as prescribed by the companys articles of association, dAlviellas position at Soina has not given rise to any conic tl s and of certain senior executive positions of interest and his circumstances very much accord with the O the terms of reference of board committees and the importance that Caledonia attaches to its own executives having membership thereof board positions at investee companies.
Mr Allen-Jones, Mr Davies and Mr Thompson have all served as non-executive directors O the companys strategy for more than nine years.
The board with none of the relevant O annual budgets non-executive directors taking any part in the discussions has speciically considered each of these non-executive directors O the companys systems of risk management and internal control independence in the context of The UK Corporate Governance O treasury policies, banking counterparties and counterparty Code and does not believe that their status is compromised exposure limits simply by length of service.
Rather, the experience, character and conduct of each director are the boards determinants of O policy on executive directors remuneration and terms of their independence.
The board has recognised that succession appointment of non-executive directors planning is of particular importance in the context of long service O signiicant capital transactions and, accordingly, the Nomination Committee has commenced a process of gradual refreshment of the non-executive O charitable and political donations.
representation on the board, whilst balancing the need for continuity and stability, given that there have been a number The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separated of changes in key positions on the board in the recent past.
and clearly deined in the Schedule of Authorities.
The Chairmn a is primarily responsible for the leadership of the board and for Board committees ensuring that it carries out its role effectively and the Chief The board has delegated certain speciic areas of responsibily it Executive for the implementation of the boards strategy and to the following standing committees, the terms of reference of policies and the management of the companys activities, other which are reviewed annually and are available on the companys than those matters speciically reserved to the board.
The current membership of these committees is noted Schedule of Authorities is reviewed annually by the board.
The membership of the boards committees has remained unchanged throughout the year, other than that Mr Thompson assumed the chairmanship of the Audit Committee from Mr Allen-Jones in June 2011 and Mr Kent and Mr Woods were appointed as members of the Governance and Nomination Committees, and in Mr Woods case also as a member of the Remuneration Committee, on their appointments as directors.
Governance Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2012 43 O Nomination Committee the design and approval of the terms of the new 2011 The Nomination Committee, chaired by Mr Loudon, is responsible performance share scheme and updated 2011 deferred for the regular review of the structure, size and composition bonus plan including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the O the approval of the 2011 Directors remuneration report board and for giving consideration to succession planning for directors and, if requested by the board, for other senior O the grant of awards under the 2011 performance share executives.
It is responsible for identifying, using external search scheme and 2005 deferred bonus plan consultants where necessary, candidates to ill board vacancie s O the approval of the terms of the termination of Mr Mays as and when they arise, for making recommendations to the board employment with the company in relation thereto and for keeping under review the leadership O needs of the company, both executive and non-executive.
the determination of basic salaries for executive directors and review of salaries for other senior executives for the year The Nomination Committee also reviews the time required of the ending 31 March 2013. non-executive directors and ensures that they receive formal letters of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of Further information on the companys executive remuneration them in terms of time commitment, committee service and policy and the work of the Remuneration Committee is included involvement outside board meetings.
in the Directors remuneration report set out on pages 47 to 54.
The Nomination Committee met three times during the year Audit Committee and the principle business undertaken included: The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr Thompson, is responsible for the monitoring of the integrity of the inancial statement of s O a formal review of the size and composition of the board the company and any announcements relating to the companys following the 2011 annual board performance evaluation inancial performance and for reviewing any signiicant in al a nci O consideration of the contributions of the non-executive reporting judgements contained therein.
It also reviews the directors seeking re-election at the 2011 annual general companys systems of internal control and risk management meeting, prior to giving recommendations for their re-elections procedures and considers annually whether an internal audit function is required.
The Audit Committee believes that, in the O consideration of the independence of Mr Davies in the context context of the companys business as an investment trust, the of his having served more than nine years on the board key issues on which it has to satisfy itself are the integrity O the conduct of a search for additional independent nonof the application of the companys policy for the valuation of executive directors and the recommendations to the board its investments, particularly those which are unlisted, and the that Mr Kent and Mr Woods be appointed as directors robustness of the groups internal controls.
The valuations of the companys unlisted investments are subject to formal O consideration of the review by Lord Davies of Abersoch on six monthly reviews by the Valuation Committee.
The Audit Women on boards published in February 2011.
Committee then selects a number of valuations for speciic review.
A register of the key business risks facing the company Neither an external search consultant nor open advertising was used for the appointments of Mr Kent and Mr Woods as and the controls, monitoring procedures and further actions non-executive directors, as the board and Nomination needed to mitigate these is maintained by the Finance Director Committee felt able to draw up a suitable list of candidates and reviewed by the Audit Committee and the board every six months.
A formal report on the effectiveness of the groups with the required skills and attributes from their own wide sphere of contacts.
Subsequent to the year end, the Nomination internal controls and risk management procedures is prepared Committee recommended to the board that Mr Kent should annually for the Audit Committee by the companys Risk succeed Mr Loudon as Chairman, with effect from the Manager, which is then summarised for the board.
It is the Audit Committees current opinion that, in view of these conclusion of the 2012 AGM.
In making this recommendation, the Nomination Committee did not use an external search control processes, the size of the entities controlled by Caledonia consultancy or open advertising, as it considered that and the relatively straightforward control considerations in Mr Kents business career, the breadth of his previous relation to other investments, a separate internal audit function is not necessary.
non-executive roles and his knowledge of the company made him the most suitable candidate for the position.
It is also the Audit Committees responsibility to review and Remuneration Committee monitor the independence and objectivity of the external auditor The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Mr Davies, is and the effectiveness of the audit process and to develop and responsible for the review of executive remuneration policy.
implement policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
In this regard, the Audit Committee Within that policy, the Remuneration Committee determines the has approved a schedule of speciic non-audit activities which remuneration packages of executive directors and reviews those of other senior executives.
It is also responsible for the design of, may not be undertaken by the external auditor, within the broad and grant of awards under, the companys share incentive schemes principles that the external auditor should not audit its own work, should not make management decisions on behalf of the and for the determination of the policy for, and scope of, pension company, should not be put into the role of advocate for the arrangements, service agreements, termination payments and compensation commitments for executive directors and, if company and that no mutuality of interest should be created requested by the board, for other senior executives.
between the company and the external auditor.
The Audit Committee believes that, by applying these principles, the The Remuneration Committee met ive times during the year.
The objectivity and independence of the auditor is maintained, matters undertaken by the Remuneration Committee included: notwithstanding that non-audit work may be undertaken.
O The Audit Committee considers the appointment, re-appointment the approval of bonus awards for the year ended 31 March or removal of the external auditor and makes recommendations 2011 for executive directors and other senior executives to the board where necessary in relation to these matters.
O the conduct of a consultation with the companys larger institutional shareholders and investor representative bodies regarding proposed changes to the companys long term incentive arrangements 44 Annual report 2012 Caledonia Investments plc Corporate governance report continued The Audit Committee is also responsible for the companys Governance Committee formal whistle blowing arrangements, whereby members of staff The Governance Committee, chaired by Mr Allen-Jones, keeps may raise any issues of concern regarding possible impropriety under review corporate governance issues relating to the in the conduct of the companys business and whereby any such company and is responsible for the monitoring and review of the concerns are properly investigated and appropriate action taken.
ability of each director to act in the interests of shareholders as a whole and to exercise independence of judgement free from The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that at least relationships or circumstances which are likely to, or could one member of the Audit Committee should have recent and appear to, affect his judgement.
The Governance Committee also relevant inancial experience and the Financial Services reviews conlict or potential conlict situations relating to Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules similarly directors which may require the prior authorisation of the board require that one member should have competence in accounting under the Companies Act 2006 and makes recommendations to and or auditing.
The Audit Committee considers that the board as to whether such conlict or potential conlict Mr Allen-Jones has met these requirements given his extensive situations should be authorised and, if so, whether any conditions, involvement in inancial transactions as a corporate lawyer an d such as duration or scope of the authority, should be attached.
that he was previously a member of the Financial Reporting The Governance Committee reviews annually all authorisations Council and the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
previously granted by the board to ensure that they remain The Audit Committee held four meetings during the year, appropriate.
If the Governance Committee believes that a director may be subject to a conlict of interest which may prejudice h s i three of which included a discussion with the auditor without any of the executive directors present.
During the year, the ability to exercise independence of judgement, it may make such business undertaken by the Audit Committee included: recommendations to the board as it may think it, including tht a the director abstains from participating in any decision of the O the conduct of a tender of the group audit and subsequent board or any of its committees on the matter concerned.
recommendation to the board that KPMG Audit Plc be The Governance Committee met twice during the year, appointed in place of Deloitte LLP principally to review and approve the Corporate governance O scrutiny of valuations of unlisted investments selected by report for the year ended 31 March 2011, to review potential the Audit Committee following the half-year and full-year conlict situations notiied by directors in accordance with e th Valuation Committee meetings Companies Act 2006 and to make recommendations to the board O consideration of the reports from the external auditor in relation thereto.
The Governance Committee also formally concerning its audit of the 2011 annual inancial statements considered whether the inluence of the Cayzer Concert Party on Caledonias board was in the general interest of the non-Cayzer of the company and its review of the 2011 half-year report Concert Party shareholders and concluded that it was.
O consideration of the inancial disclosures contained in the Attendance at board and board committee meetings 2011 annual and half-year reports to shareholders and inancial reporting issues for the 2011 annual report The following table identiies the number of board and committee meetings held in the year to 31 March 2012 and the O consideration of the scope of the 2012 annual audit and attendance record of individual directors.
agreement with the external auditor of the key areas of focus Nomination Remuneration Audit Governance O the review of the risk register and reports from the companys Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Finance Director and Risk Manager on the effectiveness of 1 Number of meetings 10 3 5 4 2 the groups internal controls and risk management procedures for the year ended 31 March 2012 Attendance by J R H Loudon 10 3 O approval of proposals for an enhanced internal controls assurance programme W P Wyatt 10 S A King 10 O consideration of the need or otherwise for an internal The Hon C W Cayzer 9 audit function J M B Cayzer-Colvin 10 O a review of the independence and objectivity of the external auditor, including its system of quality controls and the level C M Allen-Jones 10 3 5 4 2 and nature of non-audit services provided M E T Davies 10 3 5 2 O an evaluation of the performance of the Audit Committee R Goblet dAlviella 9 4 itself including a review of its role and responsibilities C H Gregson 10 3 5 4 2 2 O consideration of the Bribery Act 2010 and the anti-bribery and R D Kent 4 1 corruption policy and procedures adopted by the company D G F Thompson 10 3 5 4 2 3 O assurance of the companys compliance with the requirements R B Woods 3 1 for approval as an investment trust.
Mr K ent was appointed as a director on 1 October 2011.
He attended four out of the ive board meetings, and all of the Governance Committee meetings, held after that date.
Mr W oods was appointed as a director on 1 November 2011.
He attended three out of the four board meetings and all of the Remuneration Committee meetings held after that date.
There were no Governance or Nomination Committee meetings held after his appointment.
Mr Ma y resigned as a director on 30 September 2011, but attended four out of the ive board meetings held prior to that date.
Governance Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2012 45 Other committees The results of the evaluation of the board as a whole and of its Various other committees have been established to focus on a committees for the year ended 31 March 2012 were presented speciic area of the companys activities, other than matters in a report to the board.
The main action points arising from reserved to the board as a whole, as follows: the evaluation process were the continuation of the gradual refreshment of the board and the adoption of formal key Executive Committee performance indicators and milestones to enhance the boards The Executive Committee meets weekly and is responsible for monitoring of the progress of the implementation of the revised matters relating to the day to day management of the companys strategy and the delivery of its objectives.
The Nomination business, other than where delegated to other committees.
It is Committee also reviewed the size, structure and composition of chaired by the Chief Executive and attended by the Chairman, the board in the light of the report to the board, but in the context the executive directors, the heads of the pools of capital and the that a process of gradual refreshment was already underway.
Directors conlicts of interest Investment Management Committee Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a The Investment Management Committee meets weekly and situation where he has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest considers matters relating to the companys investment portfolio which conlicts, or may possibly conlict, with the companys and monitors the companys cash requirements and its net asset interests.
The Companies Act 2006 however allows directors of value per share performance.
The Investment Management public companies to authorise conlicts and potential conli cts Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and is attended where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
by the entire investment team, the Company Secretary and the The Companies Act 2006 also allows the articles to contain other Deputy Company Secretary.
provisions for dealing with directors conlicts of interest t o Investment Approvals Committee avoid a breach of duty.
The Investment Approvals Committee considers and formally There are safeguards in the companys articles which apply when approves new investments and proposed realisations.
This the directors decide whether to authorise a conlict or potenal ti committee meets when required, is chaired by the Chief Executive conlict of interest.
First, only independent directors, being th ose and is attended by the Chairman, the executive directors, the who have no interest in the matter being considered, are able to heads of the pools of capital and the Company Secretary.
take the relevant decision and, second, in taking the decision, Compliance Committee the directors must act in a way which they consider, in good The Compliance Committee meets weekly to monitor the faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the company.
companys ongoing compliance with the requirements for The directors are able to impose time limits or conditions when investment trust status and to approve all investment activity giving authorisations if they think this is appropriate.
from an investment trust compliance perspective.
It also The board has adopted procedures to address the requirements monitors the potential impact of legal and regulatory of the Companies Act 2006 in relation to directors conlicts o f developments.
The Compliance Committee is chaired by the interest.
Each director is required to declare any potential conlict Company Secretary and attended by the Finance Director, the situations which may relate to him or his connected persons.
group heads of tax, treasury and inance, the Group Financial If necessary, these are reviewed by the Governance Committee Controller Risk Manager and the Deputy Company Secretary.
with each member taking no part in the consideration of his own Valuation Committee declaration, which then puts forward recommendations to the The Valuation Committee formally reviews valuations of all board as to whether these situations should be authorised and, of the companys unquoted investments at each half-year and if so, whether any conditions to such authority should be attached.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive and attended by The board then considers and, if appropriate, approves these the Finance Director, the head of inance, the Chairman of the recommendations, again with each director taking no part in Audit Committee and observed by KPMG.
relation to his own potential conlict situations.
Board performance evaluation Each board meeting includes a standing agenda item on conlict s The board conducts an annual formal evaluation of its of interest to ensure that directors disclose any new potential performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
These are then reviewed, if necessary als o For the year ended 31 March 2012, the evaluation of the board by the Governance Committee, and authorised by the board as as a whole and of its committees was led by the Chairman and appropriate.
A register of directors conlicts of interest is was conducted by inviting individual board members to complete maintained by the Company Secretary and reviewed annually questionnaires regarding the operation and effectiveness of by the Governance Committee.
the board as a whole and of its committees, the responses from Internal control which were collated by the Company Secretary and discussed.
The board has overall responsibility for the groups systems of The evaluation of the performance of the Chairman was led by risk management and internal control, although the detailed the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and involved review of risk management procedures and internal controls is individual private discussions with all other members of the delegated to the Audit Committee.
The groups system of internal board on his performance, the results of which were then control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk of considered by the non-executive directors, without the Chairman failure to achieve business objectives.
It is recognised that such a present.
The performance of the non-executive directors was system can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance reviewed by the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Senior against material failure or loss.
The board conirms that the Independent Non-Executive Director, with the Senior Independent system of internal control operated by the group accords with Non-Executive Director absent in respect of his own performance the Turnbull Guidance 2005, has been in place throughout the appraisal.
The evaluation of the performance of the Chief year and up to the date of approval of these inancial statemets n Executive was undertaken by the Chairman and the non-executive and has been reviewed by the board.
The performance of the other executive directors was reviewed by the Chairman, Chief Executive and non-executive directors and the performance of all of the executive directors was also separately considered by the Remuneration Committee as part of the annual executive salary review process.
46 Annual report 2012 Caledonia Investments plc Corporate governance report continued The board monitors the key risks facing the company through Financial performance is continuously measured by comparing a risk register maintained by the Finance Director, which total shareholder returns and net asset value movements against identiies the signiicant business risks to which the compa ny the FTSE All-Share index.
Performance statistics are reported is exposed at any particular time broadly categorised under monthly to the board.
Income and expenses are monitored by the company strategy, market risk, operational risk, inancial ris k board against an approved annual budget and regularly updated and subsidiary company risk and the controls and monitoring forecasts.
Valuations of unlisted investments are subject to a procedures in place to mitigate these, together with any rigorous six monthly review process undertaken by the Valuation outstanding actions and progress undertaken in relation thereto.
Committee and selected valuations are then reviewed by the Each risk is scored according to potential impact and likelihood, Audit Committee.
All members of the board are provided with a from which an overall risk factor is derived and compared copy of the valuations and supporting materials for all of the against a target score, with changes in the risk assessment unquoted investments.
All new investment activity and proposed continuously monitored by way of an agenda item at the weekly disposals are subject to formal approval by the Investment meetings of the Investment Management Committee.
register is formally reviewed in detail by the Audit Committee Since the year end, the directors have concluded their annual and then by the board on a six monthly basis.
review of the operation and effectiveness of the groups system Major business risks facing group and key investee companies of internal control.
No material control failings or weaknesses are identiied and assessed by local management and procedures were identiied.
Notwithstanding, the board believes that the are agreed to address these as appropriate.
The boards of these monitoring of the companys control procedures could be companies review business risk and controls regularly to ensure enhanced by more rigorous testing and therefore an improved the system of risk management operates effectively.
Caledonias internal control assurance programme is being developed investment executives then conirm, through the companys which will provide the Audit Committee with more quantitative Risk Manager, to the Audit Committee that the system of risk evidence that the control procedures in place throughout the management is operating effectively for these group companies group are robust and are being properly operated.
Relations with shareholders Key investment and market risks identiied are regularly The company welcomes dialogue with investors in order to monitored at company level by members of the Investment achieve a mutual understanding of objectives.
The Chief Management Committee, who have clear mandates to assess Executive and the Finance Director regularly hold meetings and report on risk in their particular areas of responsibility.
with institutional investors, private client stockbrokers and All of the companys signiicant investments are reviewed at fund managers.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director least annually by the board and the smaller portfolio holdings attends some of these meetings.
Any views put forward by reviewed at least annually by the Investment Management shareholders are reported back to the board, which periodically Committee.
The Risk Manager produces reports for the Audit also receives presentations from Caledonias brokers on Committee on speciic risk areas as and when requested.
shareholder feedback and the general market perception of the company.
In addition, the annual general meeting provides Speciic control procedures are in place to ensure that the a forum for shareholders to meet the directors, both formally company continually monitors and complies with the and informally.
requirements for investment trust status.
The board receives monthly compliance reports evidencing that the company is The Chairmen of all of the boards committees will be available meeting the various tests for investment trust status and also to answer questions at the annual general meeting.
conirming that the investment activities undertaken by executive management are within the policy limits set by the board.
The Compliance Committee reviews and monitors in detail all aspects of the companys activities which could affect its ability to maintain its investment trust status.
