The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 17 Report of the Directors continued g Principal risks and uncertainties Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company the Manager and its other suppliers, and the key elements and has put in place a schedule of investment limits and designed to provide effective internal control, are explained further in the internal controls section on page 21. restrictions, appropriate to the Companys investment objective and policy, in order to mitigate these risks as far as Further details of the Companys exposure to market risk practicable.
The principal risks which have been identified and including market price risk, currency risk and interest rate the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these are as follows: risk, liquidity risk, and credit and counterparty risk and how they are managed are contained in Note 16 on pages l Portfolio and market price 41 to 45.
Although the Company invests almost entirely in securities that are quoted on recognised markets, share prices may Corporate Governance Statement move rapidly.
The companies in which investments are a Applicable corporate governance codes made may operate unsuccessfully, or fail entirely.
A fall in The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance the market value of the Companys portfolio would have of the Companys affairs.
Paragraph 7.2 of the Disclosure and an adverse effect on shareholders funds.
The Board Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority requires all reviews the portfolio each month and mitigates this risk listed companies to publish a corporate governance through diversification of investments in the portfolio.
6 of the Listing Rules requires l Investment activity, gearing and performance all listed companies to disclose how they have applied the An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in principles and complied with the provisions of the UK terms of asset allocation or the level of gearing may result Corporate Governance Code the Code.
As an investment in underperformance against the Companys benchmark.
trust, most of the Companys day-to-day responsibilities are The Board monitors investment performance at each Board delegated to third parties, the Company has no employees meeting and regularly reviews the level of its gearing.
and the directors are all non-executive.
Thus, not all the provisions of the Code are directly applicable to the Company.
l Tax and regulatory A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act The Financial Reporting Council the FRC confirmed on 2010 could lead to a loss of investment trust status, 30 September 2010 that it remained the view of the FRC that resulting in capital gains realised within the portfolio being by following the Corporate Governance Guide for Investment subject to corporation tax.
A breach of the UKLA Listing Companies produced by the Association of Investment Rules could result in suspension of the Companys shares, Companies the AIC Guide, published in October 2010, while a breach of the Companies Act 2006 could lead to boards of investment companies should fully meet their criminal proceedings, or financial or reputational damage.
obligations in relation to the Code and paragraph 9.8.
6 of the The Company must also ensure compliance with the listing Listing Rules.
The AIC Code of Corporate Governance rules of the New Zealand Stock Exchange.
published in October 2010 the AIC Code applies to the Company.
The AIC Code, and the related Corporate l Operational Governance Guide for Investment Companies, are accessible Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers accounting, at www.
dealing or payment systems or custody records could prevent the accurate reporting and monitoring of the The Board of The City of London Investment Trust plc believes Companys financial position.
The Company is also exposed that reporting against the AIC Code by reference to the AIC to the operational risk that one or more of its suppliers Guide will provide the most appropriate information to may not provide the required level of service.
shareholders and has therefore followed the principles and recommendations set out in the AIC Code.
The Manager has contracted to provide investment, company secretarial, administration and accounting services through b Statement of compliance qualified professionals.
The Board receives internal control The AIC Code comprises 21 principles.
The directors believe reports produced by the Manager on a quarterly basis, which that during the year under review they have complied with confirm regulatory compliance.
the provisions of the AIC Code, insofar as they apply to the
