The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 21 Report of the Directors continued l Board attendance eliminate risks of failure to achieve the Companys business Attendance at Board and Committee meetings held during objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute the financial year are shown below.
All directors usually assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board attend the Annual General Meeting.
has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of Audit Nominations internal controls for the year ended 30 June 2012.
During the Board Committee Committee course of its review of internal controls, the Board has not No of meetings 9 3 1 identified or been advised of any failings or weaknesses that Simon Barratt 8 3 1 have been determined as significant.
David Brief 9 3 1 Richard Hextall 9 3 1 The Board, assisted by the Investment Manager, undertook a full 1 Martin Morgan 3 review of the Companys business risks and these have been Philip Remnant 9 1 analysed and recorded in a risk map which is reviewed regularly.
2 Simon fide Zoete 3 1 1 The Investment Manager has established an internal control Appointed to the Board on 1 March 2012 2 Retired from the Board on 24 October 2011 framework to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance on the effectiveness of the internal controls operated on e Performance evaluation behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness of the internal controls l The Company is assessed by the Investment Managers compliance and risk The performance of the Company is considered in detail at department on a continuing basis.
The Board receives each each Board meeting.
quarter from the Investment Manager a formal report which l The Board details the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including The work of the Board as a whole and of the Board those that are not directly the responsibility of the Investment Committees was reviewed by the Nominations Committee Manager, and which reports the details of any known internal in July 2012 and no areas of concern were identified.
The Board receives each year from the l Individual directors Investment Manager a report on its internal controls which The Chairman reviews each individual directors includes a report from the Investment Managers auditors on contribution on an annual basis.
The Nominations the control policies and procedures in operation.
Steps will Committee meets without the Chairman present if continue to be taken to embed the system of internal control necessary, in order to review the performance of the and risk management into the operation and culture of the Chairman.
Company and its key suppliers.
At the 2012 meeting the Nominations Committee agreed g Accountability and relationship with the Investment that the Chairman continues to promote effective leadership Manager and each of the directors contributes valuable experience The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the and skills to the Board.
The Company is required to engage Financial Statements is set out on page 25, the Independent an external facilitator for the Board evaluation every three Auditors Report on page 49 and the Statement of Going years.
The evaluation in 2012 was undertaken internally and Concern on page 15. an external evaluation will be undertaken next year.
The Board has delegated contractually to external third parties, f Internal controls including the Investment Manager, the management of the The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the safeguarding of the assets, the day to day accounting, company Company.
The process has been in place since 2000 and is secretarial and administration requirements and registration subject to regular review by the Board.
Up to the date of this services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and report the process accords with the Internal Control Guidance proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the for Directors on the Combined Code published in September services offered, including the control systems in operation in so 1999 the Turnbull Guidance.
far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system The Board receives and considers regular reports from the of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Investment Manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
In addition, the Chairman However, such a system is designed to manage rather than 22 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Report of the Directors continued attends meetings of all the chairmen of the investment trust As a result of their annual review, it is the opinion of the companies managed by the Investment Manager: these directors that the continued appointment of the current meetings provide a forum to discuss industry matters and the Investment Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests of Chairman reports on them to the Board.
the Companys shareholders as a whole.
The Investment Manager takes decisions as to the purchase i Share capital and shareholders and sale of individual investments.
The Investment Manager l Share capital also ensures that all directors receive, in a timely manner, all The Companys equity and non-equity share capital comprises: relevant management, regulatory and financial information.
i ordinary shares of 25p nominal value each.
The voting Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each Board rights of the ordinary shares on a poll are one vote for meeting enabling the directors to probe further on matters of every 15 shares held.
At the beginning of the year, there concern.
A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for were 224,859,868 ordinary shares in issue.
During the decision by the full Board has been defined and a procedure year, 14,000,000 shares representing 6.23% of the adopted for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the number of shares in issue at the beginning of the year Company within certain parameters.
The directors have access were issued for total proceeds net of commissions of to the advice and services of the corporate Company Secretary 39,250,000.
At 30 June 2012 the number of ordinary through its appointed representative who is responsible to the shares in issue with voting rights was 238,859,868.
Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and Since 30 June 2012 and up to the date of this report a that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The further 1,950,000 ordinary shares have been issued for a Board and Investment Manager operate in a supportive, total consideration of 5,891,452.
The number of shares in co-operative and open environment.
issue at the date of this report is 240,809,868.
The Board has reviewed the implications of the Bribery Act ii cumulative first preference stock.
The voting rights of the 2010, which came into force on 1 July 2011, and confirmed first preference stock on a poll are one vote per 10 of its zero tolerance to bribery and corruption in its business stock held.
At 1 July 2011 and at 30 June 2012 there was activities.
It has sought and received assurances from its main 301,982 of first preference stock in issue.
contractors and suppliers that they will maintain adequate safeguards to protect against any potentially illegal behaviour iii non-cumulative second preference stock.
Second preference by their employees and agents.
stockholders have no rights to attend and vote at general h Continued appointment of the Investment Manager meetings except on the winding-up of the Company or if The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of dividends are in arrears.
At 1 July 2011 and at 30 June 2012 investment management and other services to the Company on there was 507,202 of second preference stock in issue.
The principal contents of the agreement with iv non-cumulative preferred ordinary stock.
The voting rights the Investment Manager are contained on page 16. of the preferred ordinary stock on a poll are one vote per The Board reviews investment performance at each Board 20 of stock held.
At 1 July 2011 and at 30 June 2012 meeting and a formal review of the Investment Manager is there was 589,672 of preferred ordinary stock in issue.
As part of the annual review in July 2012 Further details on the first and second preference stock the directors discussed the quality and continuity of the and the preferred ordinary stock together the Preferred personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs, with Stock are contained in note 15 on page 39. particular reference to performance and results achieved to date.
In addition, they reviewed other services provided by the There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys Investment Manager to the Company, such as accounting, share capital and there are no shares or stock which carry company secretarial and administration services, and the specific rights with regards to control of the Company.
Investment Managers promotion of investment and savings l Substantial share interests products linked to the Companys shares.
The Board noted the Investment Managers resources and experience in Declarations of interests in the voting rights of the Company, at 30 June 2012, are set out overleaf.
managing and administering investment trust companies.
The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 23 Report of the Directors continued Shareholder % of voting rights writing to the Company Secretary at the Registered Office address given on the inside back cover.
Legal & General Investment Management 3.3% General presentations to both shareholders and analysts Since year end the Company has not been notified of any follow the publication of the annual results.
All meetings declarations of interests in the voting rights of the Company.
between the Investment Manager and shareholders are The Board is aware that, as at 30 June 2012, 14.87% of the reported to the Board.
issued ordinary shares were held on behalf of participants in l New Zealand listing the Halifax Share Dealing products and 3.02% were held on It should be noted that the UK codes of Corporate behalf of participants in Henderson products.
The Governance may materially differ from the New Zealand participants in these schemes are given the opportunity to Stock Exchanges corporate governance rules and principles instruct the relevant nominee company to exercise the of the Corporate Best Practice Code.
voting rights appertaining to their shares in respect of all general meetings of the Company.
The nominee companies j Corporate Responsibility have stated that they will exercise the voting rights of any l Responsible investment SEE statement shares held through these schemes that have not been Responsible Investment is the term Henderson uses to cover exercised by the individual participants in them.
They will do its work on corporate governance and corporate responsibility so by voting for or against all resolutions to be put at all or social, environmental and ethical SEE issues in the general meetings of the Company or by withholding votes companies in which it invests on its clients behalf, across all funds.
In May 2005 Henderson became a founding signatory on such resolutions pro rata to the aggregate voting to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment.
instructions for each resolution received from those The Principles, developed under the auspices of the UN participants who have chosen to exercise their voting rights.
Secretary-General, are a voluntary and aspirational framework l Relations with shareholders for incorporating environmental, social and corporate Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board.
governance ESG issues into mainstream investment decisionThe prime medium by which the Company communicates making and ownership practices.
with its shareholders is through the Half Year Update and The way companies respond to sustainability and corporate Annual Report and Financial Statements which aim to responsibility can affect their business performance, both provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the directly and indirectly.
An investee companys policy on Companys activities and their results.
This information is social responsibility and the environment is therefore supplemented by the daily calculation and publication at considered as part of the investment risk decision.
the London and New Zealand Stock Exchanges of the net asset value of the Companys ordinary shares and a l Voting policy and the UK Stewardship Code monthly fact sheet.
Hendersons Responsible Investment Policy sets out the Managers approach to corporate governance and corporate The Board considers that shareholders should be encouraged responsibility for all the companies in which it invests on to attend and participate in the Annual General Meeting, behalf of its clients, and its policy on proxy voting.
The Policy which is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and which all also sets out how Henderson implements the Stewardship directors normally attend.
Shareholders have the opportunity Code.
The Company has reviewed Hendersons policy and to address questions to the Chairman of the Board, the has delegated responsibility for voting to the Manager.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee and all other directors at Board receives a report, at least annually, on the voting the meeting.
The Portfolio Manager, as the representative of undertaken by the Manager on behalf of the Company.
the Investment Manager, makes a presentation to shareholders.
A summary of the proxy votes received on the The Board and Henderson believe that voting at general resolutions proposed is displayed at the meeting.
It is the meetings is an important aspect of corporate stewardship intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Financial and a means of signalling shareholder views on Board Statements and Notice of Annual General Meeting be issued policy, practices and performance.
Voting recommendations to shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working are guided by the best interests of the investee companies days notice of the meeting.
Shareholders wishing to lodge shareholders.
Depending on the nature of the resolution questions in advance of the meeting are invited to do so by the Portfolio Manager and or members of the Board will
