Close Brothers Group plc 33 Annual Report 2012 Governance Corporate Governance This year there has been a particular focus on monitoring the growth within the Banking division and ensuring that it has the appropriate infrastructure and resources to support and maintain the current pace of growth and expansion while maintaining a prudent business model.
In relation to the Securities division the board has spent time understanding the impact of the current market conditions on its business model and long-term strategy.
In Asset Management the focus has been on monitoring the transformation process with the development of the new client propositions and platform and ensuring that key milestones are met and Strone Macpherson, Chairman.
The board has also spent significant time reviewing and understanding As chairman of Close Brothers, I view the the potential impact of external factors on the governance and oversight of its distinctive and group such as the ongoing Eurozone prudent business model and strategy as key uncertainty, regulatory developments as a to the ongoing creation and delivery of value result of the new Financial Services Bill and to its stakeholders, particularly in an economic the recommendations from the Independent environment that remains both uncertain Commission on Banking.
We are committed to the principles To accomplish this the board has met nine established in the UK Corporate Governance times this year and prior to each board Code the Code issued by the Financial meeting receives reports, not only on the Reporting Council and this report will explain results of each of the three divisions and key and demonstrate how the group has performance indicators, but also detailed complied with the Code.
updates on the progress and implementation Strone Macpherson of the agreed strategies for each division.
The Chairman board has the opportunity to discuss the 25 September 2012 reports and challenge each of the divisional chief executives, who attend all or part of the board meetings, directly on the progress and implementation of their divisional strategy.
In addition, in May 2012 the board attended two strategy days dedicated to discussing and reviewing the groups long-term strategy with executive management.
Close Brothers Group plc 34 Annual Report 2012 Governance Corporate Governance continued Compliance It is the boards view that the Companys governance regime has The Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in May been fully compliant with the best practice set out in the Code for 2010, has been applied by the Company since the start of the the year.
A copy of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting The Code sets out guidance on best practice in the form of Councils website: www.
principles and provisions on how companies should be directed and controlled to follow good governance practice.
The Financial Services Authority FSA requires companies with a premium listing in the UK to disclose, in relation to the Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they have complied with its provisions throughout the financial year.
Where the provisions have not been complied with, companies must provide an explanation for this.
Governance Framework Board governance structure The Board Audit Remuneration Risk Nomination and Committee Committee Committee Governance Committee Executive Committee Responsible for developing strategy, setting business objectives and assisting the chief executive with management of the group.
Board and committee meeting attendance 2011 2012 The attendance of directors at board meetings and committee meetings of which they were members during the financial year is shown in the table below.
Some directors also attended committee meetings as invitees during the year.
This is not reflected in the table.
Nomination and Audit Remuneration Risk Governance Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Reg Ad hoc Total Reg Ad hoc Total Reg Ad hoc Total Reg Ad hoc Total Reg Ad hoc Total Number of meetings during the year 8 1 9 5 5 5 5 5 1 6 3 3 Executive director Stephen Hodges 8 1 9 Jonathan Howell 8 1 9 Preben Prebensen 8 1 9 Non-executive director Bruce Carnegie-Brown 8 1 9 5 5 5 5 5 1 6 3 3 Jamie Cayzer-Colvin 8 1 9 Ray Greenshields 8 1 9 5 5 5 5 5 1 6 3 3 1 Geoffrey Howe 8 1 9 2 2 3 3 2 1 3 2 2 Strone Macpherson 8 1 9 3 3 Douglas Paterson 8 1 9 5 5 5 5 5 1 6 3 3 1 Geoffrey Howe was appointed a member of the Audit, Remuneration, Risk and Nomination and Governance committees on 13 February 2012 and attended all committee meetings since this date.
Close Brothers Group plc 35 Annual Report 2012 The Board objective manner and therefore, under the Code, is independent Leadership of the board and free from any relationship that could affect their judgement, The boards primary role is to provide leadership, ensure that the with the exception of Jamie Cayzer-Colvin who is a director of a Company is appropriately managed and deliver long-term substantial shareholder.
The boards opinion was determined by shareholder value.
It sets the groups strategic objectives and considering for each non-executive director: provides direction for the group as a whole.
A number of key Whether they are independent in character and judgement: decisions are reserved for and may only be made by the board, How they conduct themselves in board and committee which enables the board and executive management to operate meetings: within a clear governance framework.
Whether they have any interests which may give rise to an actual or perceived conflict of interest: and Below is a summary of matters specifically reserved for the board: Whether they act in the best interests of the Company and all Setting and monitoring strategy: its shareholders at all times.
Oversight of regulatory compliance and internal control: Ensuring adequate financial resources: Each non-executive director is required to confirm at least Acquisitions and disposals over certain thresholds: annually, whether any circumstances exist which could impair Board appointments and removals: and their independence.
The board reviewed and considered the Davies report on diversity The board has delegated specific powers for some matters and is committed to ensuring a diverse pool of candidates is to its committees as set out in each committees terms of considered for any vacancies that may arise and that they are filled reference which are reviewed annually and can be found on our by the most qualified candidates based on merit, having regard to website at www.
com investor-relations corporatethe benefits of diversity.
The chairman of each committee regularly reports to the board on matters discussed at Meetings and attendance committee meetings.
The board has regular scheduled meetings.
During the year there were eight scheduled board meetings and one ad hoc board At each regular scheduled meeting the board receives reports meeting called to deal with specific time critical business matters.
from the chief executive and finance director on the performance There were also additional board meetings convened to deal with and results of the group.
In addition, the heads of the Banking, operational issues.
Details of attendance at board meetings can Securities and Asset Management divisions update the board on be found on page 34. performance, strategic developments and initiatives in their respective areas and the board receives updates from the group The directors receive detailed papers in advance of each board operating functions on legal, compliance, human resources and meeting.
The board agenda is carefully structured by the corporate development matters.
chairman in consultation with the company secretary and the chief executive.
Each director may review the agenda and There is an annual schedule of rolling agenda items to ensure propose items for discussion with the chairmans agreement.
that all matters are given due consideration and are reviewed at Additional information is also circulated to directors between the appropriate point in the financial and regulatory cycle.
meetings including analyst reports on the group and relevant Meetings are structured to ensure that there is sufficient time for regulatory announcements.
consideration and debate of all matters.
The annual schedule of board meetings is decided a substantial During the year, the board has, in particular, focused on: time in advance in order to ensure the availability of each of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and directors.
In the event that directors are unable to attend reverse stress testing: meetings due to conflicts in their schedule, they receive papers in Budget for the 2013 financial year: the normal manner and have the opportunity to relay their Appointment of new directors: comments in advance of the meeting, as well as follow up with Recovery and resolution plan for the Bank: the chairman if necessary.
The same process applies in respect Audit, compliance and risk plans for the 2013 financial year: of the various board committees.
Board and committee evaluation: and Implications of the new regulatory regime.
Chairman and chief executive The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate and Board size, composition and independence there is a clear division of responsibilities between the two roles.
During the year the board comprised nine members: the chairman, In accordance with the Code, there is a written statement of the three executive directors and five non-executive directors.
On division of responsibilities which has been reviewed and 1August 2012 Shonaid Jemmett-Page was appointed as an approved by the board.
The chairman is Strone Macpherson.
His independent non-executive director and Elizabeth Lee was other significant commitments are set out in his biography on appointed as an executive director.
The structure of the board page 28.
The board is satisfied that his significant commitments continues to ensure that no individual or group of individuals is able do not restrict him from carrying out his duties effectively.
to dominate the decision making process and no undue reliance is placed on any individual.
As chairman, Strone Macpherson is primarily responsible for leading the board and ensuring the effective engagement and Details of the individual directors and their biographies are set out contribution of all the directors.
His other responsibilities include on pages 28 and 29. setting the agenda for board meetings, providing the directors with information in an accurate, clear and timely manner and the The board has assessed the independence of each non-executive promotion of effective decision making.
The chairman is also director and is of the opinion that each acts in an independent and charged with ensuring that the directors continually update their Close Brothers Group plc 36 Annual Report 2012 Governance Corporate Governance continued skills and knowledge and that the performance of the board, its The evaluations confirmed the directors opinion that the board committees and the individual directors is evaluated on an annual and its committees continue to be highly effective.
In addition to the board evaluation process, the senior The group chief executive is Preben Prebensen who is primarily independent director led a separate performance review in responsible for the day-to-day management of the groups respect of the chairman which involved a review with the business.
His other responsibilities include proposing and non-executive directors excluding the chairman and separate developing strategic objectives for the group, managing the consultation with the chief executive.
The senior independent groups risk exposures in line with board policies, implementing director subsequently provided feedback to the chairman on his the decisions of the board and facilitating appropriate and appraisal.
effective communication with shareholders and regulatory bodies.
Appointment of directors The appointment of directors is governed by the Companys Senior independent director articles of association, the Companies Act 2006 and other The senior independent director is Bruce Carnegie-Brown.
Directors may be elected by Inaddition to the existing channels for shareholder shareholders in general meeting or appointed by the board of communications, shareholders may discuss any issues or directors in accordance with the provisions of the articles of concerns they may have with the senior independent director.
The articles of association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
New directors are also available to meet major shareholders on request.
In accordance with the Code all directors will be subject to re-election at the AGM.
The board will only recommend to Powers of directors shareholders that executive and non-executive directors be The directors are responsible for the management of the proposed for re-election at an AGM after evaluating the Company.
They may exercise all powers of the Company, subject performance of the individual directors.
Following the to any directions given by special resolution and the articles of performance evaluations, the board will be recommending that association.
The directors have been authorised to allot and all directors be re-elected by shareholders and confirms that issueordinary shares and to make market purchases of the each director continues to be effective and demonstrates Companys ordinary shares by virtue of resolutions passed at the commitment to their role.
Letters of appointment are available for inspection by Board evaluation shareholders at each AGM and during normal business hours at In 2012 the Nomination and Governance Committee the Companys registered office.
recommended that the board evaluation should be carried out internally.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code the Induction and professional development board intends to appoint an external consultant to facilitate the On appointment all new directors receive a comprehensive and board evaluation in 2013.
The 2012 internal evaluation was led personalised induction programme to familiarise them with the bythe company secretary and took the form of confidential Company and to meet their specific requirements.
The Company questionnaires which assessed the performance of the board also provides bespoke inductions for directors when they are and its committees with the option for a confidential interview.
In appointed as a committee chair.
Induction programmes are order to assess the progress of the board over the year, the 2012 tailored to a directors particular requirements but would typically evaluation focused on the same areas as the 2011 evaluation: include site visits, one-to-one meetings with executive directors, Board and committee competencies and experience: the company secretary, senior management for the business Effectiveness of the board and director commitment: areas and support functions and a confidential meeting with the Succession planning and talent review: external auditor.
Directors also receive guidance on directors Strategic direction: liabilities and responsibilities.
Board training: and Use of time at board meetings.
There is a central training programme in place for the directors which is reviewed and considered by the board.
In addition, the The feedback from the evaluations was collated by the company chairman discusses and agrees any specific requirements as secretary, reviewed with the chief executive and chairman and part of each non-executive directors half year and year end presented to the Nomination and Governance Committee in July reviews.
During the year, training took the form of site visits, 2012. including visits to the Asset Management divisions businesses at Cuckfield and Northwich, informal meetings with senior The majority of responses were positive and the feedback management, in-depth business reviews, attendance at external confirmed that there had been notable improvement in a number seminars and FSA forums and briefings from both internal and of areas identified in the 2011 evaluation and forming the basis external advisers covering topics such as: ofthe 2012 action plan including succession planning, board The Retail Distribution Review: training and culture and the performance of the Risk Committee.
The new regulatory regime: Governance and the audit committee: and The 2012 evaluation also assessed the effectiveness of each of Regulatory risk management.
The committee members were asked questions regarding governance arrangements, the quality of All directors also attended a dedicated two day strategy session advice and input from external advisers, the quality of contribution in May 2012 which focused on strategy development and of relevant internal functions, the quality of presentations and execution.
Training and development records are maintained by disclosure by the executive and the overall effectiveness of the the company secretary and reviewed annually by the chairman committees.
The majority of responses were positive.
Close Brothers Group plc 37 Annual Report 2012 All directors have direct access to the services and advice of the The group reviews and revises its risk appetite as part of the company secretary who is responsible for ensuring that the strategy setting process.
This aligns risk taking with the board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are achievement of strategic objectives.
Adherence to appetite is observed.
Directors are able to take independent external monitored by the groups risk committees.
professional advice to assist with the performance of their duties at the Companys expense.
The risk management framework is based on the concept of three lines of defence.
Business management are responsible Risk and Control Framework for ensuring that all key risks have been identified, assessed and The board has overall responsibility for maintaining a system evaluated and that, where necessary, appropriate controls have ofinternal control that ensures an effective risk management been put in place to manage and mitigate them within defined andoversight process operates across the group.
Risk functions provide oversight of this and group management framework and associated governance internal audit ensures that the first and second lines of defence arrangements are designed to ensure that there is a clear are working effectively.
The risk management framework is organisational structure with well defined, transparent and illustrated in the table below.
consistent lines of responsibility and effective processes to identify, manage, monitor and report the risks to which the group The key principles underlying risk management in the group are: is, or might become, exposed.
Business management own all the risks assumed throughout the group and are responsible for ensuring that these are Identification, measurement and management of risk are managed on a day-to-day basis to ensure that risk and return strategic priorities for the group.
Over the past 12 months the are balanced: group has continued to strengthen its risk management The board and business management promote a culture in framework and further develop the groups risk committee, and which risks are identified, assessed and reported in an open, its divisional risk committees, which continue working efficiently transparent and objective manner: and effectively.
The overriding priority is to protect the groups long-term viability and produce sustainable medium to long-term revenue streams: A key priority of the risk and control framework is to allow Risk functions are independent of the businesses and provide business opportunities to be captured while maintaining an oversight of and advice on the management of risk across the appropriate balance of risk and reward.
The groups risk businesses: management framework is designed to ensure that the risks to Risk management across the group is proportionate to the which the group is or may become exposed are identified and scale and complexity of the groups individual businesses: that those which the group chooses to take are managed, Risk mitigation and control activities are commensurate with controlled and, where appropriate, mitigated so that the group the degree of risk: and isnot subject to material unexpected loss.
Risk management and control supports decision making.
Risk Management Framework First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence Group Risk and Compliance Risk Committee Audit Committee Committee Reports to the board via the Risk Reports to the board.
Chief executive delegates to divisional and Risk Committee delegates to the chief risk Audit Committee mandates the head of operating business heads day-to-day officer day-to-day responsibility for internal audit with day-to-day responsibility responsibility for risk management, oversight and challenge on risk related for independent assurance.
regulatory compliance and internal control issues.
in running their divisions or businesses.
Business management has day-to-day Risk functions provide support and Group internal audit provides independent ownership, responsibility and independent challenge on: assurance on: accountability for risks: Risk framework: First and second lines of defence: Identifying and assessing risks: Risk assessment: Appropriateness effectiveness of internal Managing and controlling risks: Risk appetite and strategy: controls: and Mitigating risks: and Performance management: Effectiveness of policy implementation.
Risk reporting: and Adequacy of mitigation plans.
Key features Key features Key features Promotes a strong risk culture and focus Over-arching risk oversight unit takes Draws on in depth knowledge of the on sustainable risk-adjusted returns: an integrated view of risk qualitative and group and its businesses: Implements the risk framework: quantitative : Independent assurance on the activities Promotes a culture of adhering to limits Risk management separate from risk of the firm including the risk and managing risk exposures: and control but work together: management framework: and Ongoing monitoring of positions and Supports through developing and Assesses the appropriateness and management of risks.
advising on risk strategies: and effectiveness of internal controls.
Creates constructive tension through challenge, critical friend.
Close Brothers Group plc 38 Annual Report 2012 Governance Corporate Governance continued Membership and meetings The Committee comprises me as chairman, Douglas Paterson and Bruce Carnegie-Brown who chair the Audit and Remuneration Committees respectively and Geoffrey Howe who joined the Committee with effect from 13 February 2012.
Each of the Committee members is independent and attended all of the six meetings held during the year other than Geoffrey Howe who attended all three meetings held since his appointment.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page was appointed to the Committee on 1 August 2012.
Meetings are regularly attended by the chairman, chief executive, finance director, chief risk officer, head of compliance and the head of internal audit all of whom have supported and informed the Committees discussions.
The company secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Other executives, subject matter experts and external advisers may also be invited to attend the Committee to present and advise on reports commissioned.
I continue to meet regularly with the chief risk officer and have regular formal and informal meetings with senior management across the group to discuss key risks and emerging issues.
Ray Greenshields, Chairman of the Risk Committee.
Responsibilities Risk Committee The role of the Committee in summary is to: Chairmans overview Oversee the maintenance and development of a supportive This report explains the role and responsibilities of the Risk culture in relation to the management of risk: Committee which supports the board in its oversight of risk Review and set risk appetite, which is the level of risk the group management across the group.
The sections below set out the is willing to take in pursuit of its strategic objectives: Committees membership, key responsibilities, and the key areas Monitor risk profile against the prescribed appetite: upon which we have focused on during the year.
The Review the effectiveness of the risk framework to ensure that identification, management and mitigation of risk is fundamental key risks are identified and appropriately managed: and to the success of the group.
The Committee plays an important Provide input from a risk perspective into the alignment of role in setting the tone and culture that promotes effective risk remuneration with performance against risk appetite through management across the group.
This was the first full year of operation for the Committee The Committees full terms of reference are available from the following its establishment in January 2011.
The year has seen corporate governance section of our website.
some particular challenges for the Committee in its oversight of risk management.
Global economic conditions have continued to Activity in 2012 financial year be difficult.
Concerns over the economic prospects for the The Committee has focused on ensuring that, as the loan book Eurozone, specific countries within it and the possibility of a grows, we maintain credit quality and stay within the credit risk break up, have greatly influenced our consideration of our risk appetite.
As part of this we have overseen the further profile and emerging issues.
The regulatory environment has also development of the credit risk management framework including evolved, as our regulators continue to seek assurance as to the the further enhancement of management information.
We have robustness of risk management and the financial viability of also reviewed and challenged stress testing and risk analysis of financial institutions in a stressed environment.
key areas of the loan book and considered the associated operational risks to ensure loan book growth is both scalable and In an increasingly challenging external environment, the sustainable.
overarching objective of the Committees work has been to maintain assurances that the group continues to operate within We continue to oversee and review the change management the boards approved strategy and risk appetite: and that the programmes across the group, focusing on the Banking and groups risk management framework is properly structured and Asset Management divisions.
Specifically we have reviewed the effectively implemented.
project management office in the Banking division.
In our regular Committee meetings we review and challenge the progress of key projects.
Close Brothers Group plc 39 Annual Report 2012 The Committee continued to closely monitor the turbulent external environment and the changing regulatory environment.
While our direct exposure to the Eurozone is low we have continued to review and assess the impact both directly and indirectly of the current environment and consider the potential effect of a worsening of the Eurozone situation.
In all our Committee meetings we devote considerable time to current and emerging regulatory challenges to ensure the group is well placed to implement new regulation.
The Committee undertook regular reviews of the groups risk profile against the key performance indicators set out in the Risk Appetite Statement and considered the need for any adjustment to the risk appetite which has recently been refreshed.
Given the criticality of capital and liquidity, over the course of the year the Committee has maintained its focus on this area.
The Committee considers and discusses the groups capital and liquidity position, regulatory environment and expectations at each scheduled meeting.
This includes oversight of key regulatory submissions such as the ICAAP: the Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA : and the Banks Recovery and Resolution Plan RRP.
Looking ahead to 2012 2013 Key priorities for the coming year include: Continuing to ensure that an appropriate balance is struck between strategic forward looking oversight of the groups risks and more detailed review of management information and risk management processes across all risk types: Continuing to keep abreast of the changing economic landscape and evolving regulatory environment.
Macroeconomic factors and regulation will continue to shape the Committees agenda: and Continuing to monitor our risk profile and performance against risk appetite to ensure that this remains aligned to business strategy, with a particular focus on capital and liquidity.
Remuneration We provided input to the Remuneration Committee, to ensure that risk behaviours and incidents over the course of the financial year were appropriately reflected in the annual performance appraisal and compensation review process.
Ray Greenshields Chairman of the Risk Committee 25 September 2012 Close Brothers Group plc 40 Annual Report 2012 Governance Corporate Governance continued Standing invitations are extended to the chairman, the other non-executive directors and the executive directors, all of whom attend the meetings as a matter of practice.
In addition the heads of group internal audit, compliance and risk and the group financial controller also attend by invitation.
I meet with the group finance director and this latter group to set the agenda and receive full briefing on relevant issues in advance of each of the scheduled meetings.
In addition I have had regular contact with the lead audit partner throughout the year.
The external audit partner attends all the meetings and meets in private with the Committee on each occasion.
I have also met with the heads and senior staff in each of the divisions to discuss and review with them enhancing the effectiveness of internal audit and the reports issued.
Responsibilities The key role of the Committee in summary is to: Monitor the integrity of the groups financial statements and to ensure any significant financial judgements are appropriate: Review the adequacy of the groups system of regulatory compliance and internal control: and Monitor and review the activities and performance of both internal and external audit.
Douglas Paterson, Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Committees full terms of reference are available from the Audit Committee corporate governance section of our website.
Chairmans overview This report explains the role and responsibilities of the Audit Activity in 2012 financial year Committee in support of the board in its oversight of the internal During the year under review the Committee focused, inter alia, control systems and integrity of the financial statements.
The on the following key areas: sections below set out the Committees membership, key responsibilities and the key areas we have focused on during the Integrity of financial statements year.
There is also more detail on how the Committee has Considered the results of an independent review of the front discharged its oversight of both internal and external audit.
section of the Annual Report and managements proposals in response: In addition to the Committees regular responsibilities, during the At both interim and full year stages, reviewed the groups year we have considered evolving developments in company reporting and key accounting judgements.
In particular this stewardship and commissioned an independent review of the year the Committee focused on the approach taken to front section of our Annual Report disclosures.
As a result we accounting for the phased disposal of Mako and its impairment have made a number of changes to our Annual Report which the implications: and Committee believes provides a clearer insight of the groups Reviewed briefings on the latest consultation papers from the performance, business model and strategy.
Financial Reporting Council on company stewardship and corporate governance.
Membership and meetings The Committee comprises me as chairman, Bruce CarnegieCompliance and internal control Brown and Ray Greenshields who chair the Remuneration and Reviewed the annual compliance plan and regular compliance Risk Committees respectively and Geoffrey Howe who joined the updates at each meeting: Committee with effect from 13 February 2012.
Each of the Reviewed a summary of the groups tax affairs and endorsed Committee members is independent and attended all of the five the groups tax policy: and meetings held during the year except for Geoffrey Howe who Received a presentation on the project to install a new general attended both meetings held since his appointment.
The ledger system across the majority of the groups businesses.
meetings held were scheduled to coincide with the financial reporting cycle of the group.
Close Brothers Group plc 41 Annual Report 2012 Review of internal and external audit The Committee also assesses the objectivity and independence Reviewed and challenged the annual plans of both internal and of the auditor, having particular regard to the level of non-audit external audit: work carried out.
We have a policy in place to regulate the level of Considered the effectiveness of the external audit and non-audit work which reflects the Committees continued view assessed external auditor independence particularly with that the group benefits from Deloitte carrying out non-audit work.
reference to the level of non-audit fees paid in the year: This arises where: Reviewed internal audits presentation at each meeting Work is closely related to the audit work: covering the 32 reports completed during the year: A detailed understanding of the group is required: or Discussed and endorsed an acquisitions review process and Deloitte LLP is deemed able to provide a higher quality and or an enhanced internal audit report process: and better value service than available in the market place.
Considered, challenged and ultimately concluded on the ongoing independence of both the internal and external The Committee balances these benefits with any possible threat auditor, including reviewing the external audit fee.
Non-audit fees during the year primarily related to tax compliance services and assurance work on securitisation Oversight of internal and external audit in the Banking division and client assets within Asset Management.
Internal audit Details of all fees paid to Deloitte LLP are shown in note 6 on The role of internal audit is to evaluate continuously the adequacy page 77. and effectiveness of governance systems, risk management, compliance and internal control and to report regularly to the Non-audit work in excess of 100,000 must be pre approved by Committee on the results of these assessments.
the Committee and I am consulted for any individual work over 10,000.
The Committee receives a report from the head of group internal audit at each meeting as well as reviewing the departments plan The Committee believes that the framework described continues on an annual basis.
The head of internal audit meets privately to ensure that Deloitte LLP remain independent and objective with the Committee at each meeting and with me regularly and the audit remains effective.
The Committee has reviewed the throughout the year.
proposed audit fee and is satisfied that it is appropriate to ensure an adequate audit can be undertaken.
As a result, we do not During the year the Committee has focused on ensuring that believe an audit tender is necessary at this time and the board reports are agreed with management and issued promptly will propose the re-election of Deloitte LLP at the Companys following field work as well as continuing to actively monitor the AGM.
timely completion of agreed action points from past reports.
Douglas Paterson External audit Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance, objectivity and independence of the external auditor as well as 25 September 2012 recommending the reappointment of the auditor to the board.
Deloitte LLP has acted as auditor to the group for the year and has been the sole auditor of the group since 2008.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the groups choice of external auditor.
An evaluation of audit performance is undertaken annually following the completion of the Annual Report and audit.
Key areas covered by the evaluation include: The experience and expertise of the engagement team: The scope of the audit work planned and carried out: The quality of dialogue between the auditor, the Committee and senior management: The clarity, quality and robustness of written reports presented to the Committee on audit findings and the groups systems of control: and The views of management.
Close Brothers Group plc 42 Annual Report 2012 Governance Corporate Governance continued Nomination and Governance Committee Remuneration Committee This report sets out the role and responsibilities of the board Details of the role and work of the Committee are set out in the Nomination and Governance Committee.
Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 46 to57.
Membership and meetings The Committee comprises me as chairman, Geoffrey Howe and Conflicts of Interest Bruce Carnegie-Brown, Ray Greenshields and Douglas Paterson The articles of association include provisions giving the directors who chair the Remuneration, Risk and Audit committees authority to approve conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of respectively.
All the members of the Committee are independent interest as permitted under the Companies Act 2006. non-executive directors.
A record of attendance at meetings during the year is set out on page 34.
In addition, Jamie CayzerA procedure has been established whereby actual and potential Colvin and the chief executive attend meetings by invitation.
conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed and appropriate Shonaid Jemmett-Page was appointed to the Committee on authorisation sought, prior to the appointment of any new 1August 2012. director or if a new conflict arises.
The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can only be made by non-conflicted directors The company secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
and in making such a decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Responsibilities success of the Company.
The board believes this procedure The Committees primary responsibilities are: operated effectively throughout the year.
Considering the appointment or retirement of directors: before an appointment is made, the skills, knowledge and experience Investor Relations required for a particular appointment are evaluated and external The group has an extensive investor relations IR programme advisers may be used to facilitate the search for suitable toinform shareholders and financial analysts about the groups candidates: performance throughout the year and to ensure they have Regular reviews of the structure, size and composition of the appropriate access to the groups management.
The IR team board: also regularly provides the board with feedback from investor Considering the leadership needs of the group and considering meetings, relevant analyst research and updates on share price succession planning for directors and other senior executives: performance.
and Assessing the contribution of non-executive directors.
The chief executive and finance director meet with the groups major institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
The chairman Work in 2012 and the senior independent director are also available to meet During the year the Committee focused on: with major shareholders, particularly in relation to corporate Appointment of new directors: governance and remuneration.
Shareholders also have the Reviewing the Companys succession plans to ensure that an opportunity to ask the board questions at the AGM, either in appropriate balance of skills and experience is maintained and person or by submitting written questions in advance.
The recommending new non-executive and executive director chairman of each of the board committees attends the AGM and appointments: all other directors are expected to attend the meeting.
Executive management and succession planning: Board evaluation: and The groups financial reports, news releases, presentation Diversity within the group.
materials and web casts of financial presentations are available on the IR section of the Close Brothers group website: Strone Macpherson www.
Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee Substantial Shareholdings 25 September 2012 The Company has been notified at 14 September 2012 under the provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following significant interests in the voting rights of the Company.
Ordinary Voting shares rights millions % Caledonia Investments 17.6 11.97 Lloyds Banking Group 14.3 9.72 Prudential 10.0 6.81 Standard Life Investments 8.3 5.65 Schroders 6.4 4.33 Artemis Investment Management 5.9 4.01 Norges Bank 4.5 3.09 Legal & General 4.4 3.00 Aberdeen Asset Management 4.3 2.89 Substantial shareholders do not have different voting rights from those of other shareholders.
Close Brothers Group plc 43 Annual Report 2012 Going Concern In preparing the group financial statements, IAS 1 requires that The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to directors: affect its future development and performance and its Properly select and apply accounting policies: summarised financial position are set out in the Chairmans and Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner Chief Executives Statement and Business Review on pages 4 to that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 7 and 12 to 23 respectively.
The principal risks and uncertainties information: the group currently faces are described on pages 24 to 27 of the Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Business Review along with the ways the group seeks to specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users manage those risks.
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and The group has a strong, proven and conservative business financial performance: and model and a range of diversified financial services businesses Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a and has traded profitably during the year.
It is well positioned in going concern.
each of its core businesses, well capitalised, soundly funded and has adequate access to liquidity.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time expectation that the Company and the group have adequate the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of basis in preparing the annual report.
the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law the corporate and financial information included on the and regulations.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may Company law requires the directors to prepare financial differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the group financial statements in Responsibility statement accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the International Accounting Standards Regulation IAS and have relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted the Company and the undertakings included in the Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and consolidation taken as a whole: and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not The management report, which is incorporated into the Report approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a of the Directors, includes a fair review of the development and true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the performance of the business and the position of the Company profit or loss of the Company for that period.
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and In preparing the parent company financial statements, the uncertainties that they face.
directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them By order of the board consistently: Make judgements and accounting estimates that are Elizabeth Lee reasonable and prudent: Company Secretary State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 25 September 2012 explained in the financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
