Executive Committee 1 2 3 4 5 1 Robert Bailhache 2 Jamie Brown 4 Jonathan Greenwood Director of Communications Managing Director of International Managing Director of Commercial Appointment Appointment Appointment Rob joined as Director of Communications Jamie joined the Group in 1997.
Jonathan joined the Group in 2001. in February 2012.
Experience and qualications Experience and qualications Experience and qualications Jamie joined as part of the Motor team, initially Previously, Jonathan held various senior Group Rob has 19 years experience in international setting up Direct Line Rescue.
In 1999 he was positions in Personal Lines and Partnership capital markets as a communications specialist responsible for the acquisition and integration divisions including Managing Director Home and financial journalist.
Rob was previously a of Green Flag.
In 2001 he moved to Italy and Product and pricing Director Partnerships.
Managing Director and Head of Group Press to lead the development of the Direct Line Immediately prior to joining the Group, Jonathan Ofce at HSBC Holdings.
Prior to this he was business in that market, and in 2007 took was Vice President of Insurance for MBNA Managing Director, Financial Services and broader responsibility across the Groups other Europe and prior to that General Manager for a Partner of Financial Dynamics, a subsidiary European businesses.
Previously Jamie followed a joint venture between Commercial Union of FTI Consulting Inc.
Rob began his career in a career both inside and outside the insurance and BNP Paribas.
Jonathan started his career business media where he held senior journalist industry in the UK and overseas.
He is a at Halifax, later HBOS, where he held a variety roles in the UK and Asia.
Rob is a graduate Chartered Accountant and has spent six years of senior product and operational roles in the of the University of Nottingham where he in the accountancy profession, 23 years in general insurance division.
gained a Bachelor of Arts Honours in Politics the insurance industry with AIG, Churchill and 5 Steve Maddock and the University of London where he gained Direct Line and six years in other industries.
Managing Director of Claims a Master of Arts in South Asia Studies.
He 3 Darrell Evans Appointment holds a Certicate in Investor Relations Chief Customer officer Steve joined as Managing Director of Claims awarded by The Investor Relations Society.
Darrell joined the Group in October 2009.
Experience and qualications Experience and qualications Previously, Steve held the position of Director of Before his current role, Darrell was Managing Strategic and Technical Claims at RSA, a role Director, Sales, Services and Partnerships.
He has over 20 years Prior to this, he was Director of Products at insurance industry experience, including roles RBS Group before assuming responsibility as Director of Claims and Customer Service for mortgage brands and the retail telephony at Capita and Director of Operations at AMP.
centres at the retail bank at RBS Group.
Darrell Steve holds an MBA from the University of began his career with RBS Group when he Reading and is a Non-Executive Director of joined NatWest in 1986 where he undertook the Motor Insurers Bureau and the Insurance a variety of strategy, finance, marketing and Fraud Bureau.
Darrell holds an MBA from Aston Business School.
58 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors report: Corporate governance 6 7 8 9 10 6 Mark Martin 8 Humphrey Tomlinson 10 Thomas Woolgrove Human Resources Director General Counsel and Managing Director of Personal Lines Appointment Company Secretary Appointment Mark joined as Human Resources Director Tom joined as Managing Director, Appointment in February 2010.
Humphrey joined the Group in November 2011.
Experience and qualications Experience and qualications Previously he was Human Resources Director Tom previously held various Managing Director Experience and qualications and a member of the Board at T-Mobile roles with HBOS and Lloyds Banking Group, Humphrey has had more than 20 years Limited.
Before this, he held a number of including UK Private Banking, General Insurance experience since qualifying as a solicitor human resources, general management and and Motor Finance.
Before that, he was a in 1989, and has advised on corporate marketing roles in the food manufacturing, strategy consultant with Gemini Consulting, and commercial matters, a wide range fast moving consumer goods, telecoms and part of the Capgemini Group, and a graduate of corporate transactions across many public sectors.
He holds a BSC Honours engineer with Rolls-Royce Aerospace.
He is countries, legal risk management and degree in Management and Personnel a member of the Association of British Insurers corporate governance issues, with RSA Practice from Aston University, and is a General Insurance Committee and the Insurance Group, where he was Group Legal Fellow and Graduate of the Chartered Chartered Insurance Institute Professionalism Director, and City law rm Ashurst Morris Crisp.
Institute of Personnel and Development.
He was elected Deputy President He is a graduate of the University of Oxford.
of the Chartered Insurance Institute in July 2012.
7 Angela Morrison 9 Jos Vazquez Tom holds a Masters Degree in Engineering Chief Information officer Chief Risk officer and Management from the University of Appointment Appointment Oxford, and an MBA from the University Angela became Chief Information officer Jos joined as Chief Risk officer of Chicago, Booth School of Business.
Experience and qualications Experience and qualications Prior to her current role, Angela was CIO at Jos was previously Global Chief Risk J Sainsburys and a member of their Operating officer at HSBC Insurance, where he had Board.
She previously worked for ASDA responsibility for the Group Chief Actuary, and Wal-Mart where she held a number of roles was a Board member of its captive insurance including European Strategy Director, CIO company.
Prior to joining HSBC, Jos held through the ASDA Wal-Mart integration various roles over 10 years at Zurich Insurance, and e-Commerce Director which included initially in London Market Operations, then as establishing ASDAs home grocery business.
Chief Actuary International Business Division Angela started her career as a consultant and and nally as Chief Actuary of the UK.
Jos holds a degree in Electrical and Electronic started his career as a consulting actuary, Engineering from the University of Bristol.
including six years as a consultant with KPMG in London where he worked on a wide range of domestic and European engagements.
Jos is a Maths graduate from Brunel University and a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 59
