Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 N and R performance against peers singled him out 1 Michael N Biggs External appointments in 2009 as the Chief Executive able to lead Glyn is Chairman of Aspen Insurance Chairman of the Board the turnaround of Direct Line Group and its Holding Limited, a New York listed specialty Appointment divestment from RBS Group.
lines insurer, and also Chairman of Aspen Mike joined the Board and became Insurance UK Limited, a principal operating Chairman of the Group in April 2012 and 3 John Reizenstein subsidiary of the Aspen Group.
is Chair of the Nomination Committee.
Chief Financial officer Key strengths and contribution Appointment Experience and qualications Glyn has undertaken a number of senior John joined as Chief Financial officer Mike has almost 40 years experience of the roles within the financial services industry.
UK and international financial services sector.
He brings knowledge of insurance from his He was Chief Executive officer and Group Experience and qualications time as Chairman of Aspen.
As a former Finance Director of Resolution plc, the John was previously Managing Director, Chief Executive officer in the asset FTSE 100 UK life assurance business and Corporate and Markets at Co-operative management industry he also understands is currently Chairman of Resolution Limited.
Banking Group CBG, the group that brings the City and shareholders well.
He was previously Group Finance Director together The Co-operative Bank, Co-operative of Aviva plc.
He has a Masters degree 5 Mark Catton Insurance Society and CIS General Insurance.
in History from the University of Oxford and He was Chief Financial officer at CBG Non-Executive Director is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered from 2003 to 2007.
Prior to joining CBG, Appointment Accountants of England and Wales.
John spent more than 20 years in investment Mark joined the Board in September 2012. banking with UBS and Goldman Sachs.
External appointments Experience and qualications John is an Economics graduate of the Chairman of Resolution Limited but will Mark rejoined RBS Group in August 2007 as University of Cambridge.
He is 56. step down later in the year.
a Managing Director in corporate banking, Key strengths and contribution External appointments having previously worked for NatWest.
Prior Mike is a respected gure in the insurance None to joining RBS Group, Mark was a senior industry and is well regarded by City investors.
executive at Barclays from 2001 to 2007, Key strengths and contribution He brings the Group extensive insurance responsible for a number of its client and John is an experienced Chief Financial officer industry experience and a successful track product businesses.
He was latterly Managing and former banker with extensive City and record of otations in this sector.
Director in European investment banking and financial services experience.
He is accordingly debt capital markets at Barclays Capital.
He C well placed to provide strong support to Paul 2 Paul Geddes is an associate of the Chartered Institute of Geddes in leading the Group.
Chief Executive officer Bankers and the Association of Corporate A, N and Appointment 4 Glyn Jones Treasurers.
Paul was appointed as Chief Executive Senior Independent Non-Executive Director External appointments officer in August 2009.
Appointment Mark sits on The Royal Bank of Scotland Glyn joined the Board in September 2012.
Experience and qualications Group plcs management committee and Paul was the Chief Executive officer of RBS Experience and qualications is Chief Executive officer of UK Corporate Groups mainland UK retail banking business, Glyn was Chairman of Towry Holdings Limited and Institutional Banking at RBS Group, a having joined in 2004 as Managing Director between 2006 and 2011.
He also served position he has held since 2008. with responsibility for products and marketing.
as Chairman of Hermes Fund Managers from Key strengths and contribution Before joining RBS Group, Paul held a number 2008 to 2011 and was Chairman of its sister Mark is one of two Non-Executive Directors of senior roles in multi-channel retailing in company, BT Pension Scheme Management, nominated by The Royal Bank of Scotland businesses that were then parts of the GUS for a part of this period.
Glyn was Chief Group plc as the majority shareholder.
Paul started his career Executive officer of the independent He has 20 years experience in corporate in marketing, with UK and European roles at investment group, Thames River Capital, from banking and financial markets to add to the Procter & Gamble.
From 2000, he served as perspectives around the boardroom table.
Politics and Economics at the University of Chief Executive officer of Gartmore Investment A, B, C, I and 6 Jane Hanson Oxford.
He is a fellow of the Chartered Management in the UK for four years.
Before Institute of Bankers in Scotland.
Paul is 43. this, Glyn was Chief Executive officer of Non-Executive Director Coutts NatWest Group and Coutts Group, Appointment External appointments having joined in 1997.
Glyn joined Standard Jane joined the Board in December 2011 Paul is a member of the ABI Board, a member Chartered in Hong Kong in 1990 where and is Chair of the Board Risk and Corporate of the Financial Ombudsman Services he became the General Manager of Global Social Responsibility Committees.
insurance industry steering group, and Private Banking.
He was a consulting partner a member of the FSA Practitioner Panel.
Experience and qualications with Coopers & Lybrand Deloitte Haskins Jane spent 12 years with KPMG, where she Key strengths and contribution & Sells Management Consultants from 1981 worked in the financial sector, becoming the Pauls experience in leading one of the UKs to 1990.
He is a graduate of the University director responsible for delivery of corporate largest retail banking businesses during of Cambridge and a Fellow of the Institute governance, internal audit and risk management a challenging period for the industry and of Chartered Accountants in England and services in the North of England.
Jane has also improving its customer and financial Wales.
56 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors report: Corporate governance 6 7 8 9 10 held executive roles as Director of Audit, and has insight into corporate governance External appointments Risk and Governance Director at Avivas UK Life developments and best practice in financial Priscilla has her own search and business.
Jane is a graduate of the University of reporting through his membership of the consultancy business.
York with a degree in music and is a Fellow of Financial Reporting Review Panel of the Key strengths and contribution the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England Financial Reporting Council.
Accordingly, Priscilla has great knowledge and experience of and Wales.
Jane is 45. he is able to advise the Group on its developing organisational values, and creating governance framework and financial External appointments the leadership, succession, development and reporting policies and can draw on his Jane is Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee remuneration structures required to support experience in our industry sector.
and Non-Executive Director at Reclaim Fund corporate strategy.
She has worked both as A, B, C, R and Ltd. She is an Independent Member of the 8 Clare Thompson a practitioner and as an adviser and therefore Fairness Committee at ReAssure Ltd: and Chair Non-Executive Director understands the complexity around remuneration of the Audit and Risk Committee and Senior in both technical and market terms.
Appointment Independent Director at Calderdale and Clare joined the Board in September 2012.
10 Bruce Van Saun Hudderseld Foundation Trust.
Jane has her Experience and qualications Non-Executive Director own financial sector consulting business, Clare was a partner at Appointment delivering audit, enterprise risk management  PwC from 1988 Bruce joined the Board in April 2012. and corporate governance advisory and to 2011.
During her 23 years as a partner of consulting services to the financial sector.
Experience and qualications PwC, she held several senior and high prole She is also a magistrate.
Bruce has over 25 years of financial services roles, particularly within the insurance sector.
From 1997 to 2008 he held a Key strengths and contribution She is a graduate of the University of York with number of senior positions with Bank of New Jane has undertaken a number of senior roles a degree in Mathematics and is a Fellow York and later Bank of New York Mellon, most in financial services, including in the UK life of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in recently as Vice-Chairman and Chief Financial insurance sector and has extensive experience England and Wales.
Clare is 58. officer, before which he was responsible for of risk management, corporate governance External appointments Asset Management and Market-Related and internal control.
She also has extensive Clare is currently a Non-Executive member businesses.
He has held senior positions with experience of developing and monitoring of the Partnership Board of Miller Insurance Deutsche Bank, Wasserstein Perella Group customer frameworks.
This experience led Services LLP and is Treasurer of the Disasters and Kidder Peabody and Company.
He has to Janes appointment as Chair of the Board Emergency Committee.
served on several corporate boards as a Risk and Corporate Social Responsibility Non-Executive Director and has been active Key strengths and contribution committees.
She also provides a customer in numerous community organisations.
He Clare brings with her extensive experience focus on the Board.
graduated summa cum laude with the and knowledge gained from roles across A, B, I, N, R and 7 Andrew Palmer highest distinction from Bucknell University in the professional services industry including as Non-Executive Director Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, with a Bachelor of Lead Audit Partner at PwC where she guided Appointment Science in Business Administration.
He also companies through change and acted as an Andrew joined the Board in March 2011 gained an MBA at the University of North adviser to insurance companies.
She gained and is Chair of the Audit Committee and Carolina.
Bruce is 55. significant experience of both general and life Chair of the Investment Committee.
insurance in the latter role.
External appointments Experience and qualications B, R and Bruce is currently the Group Finance Director 9 Priscilla Vacassin Andrew retired from Legal & General Group plc, for The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc.
Non-Executive Director where he was the Group Finance Director, in Key strengths and contribution Appointment 2009.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Bruce is one of two Non-Executive Directors Priscilla joined the Board in September 2012 Accounts in England and Wales.
Andrew is 59. nominated by The Royal Bank of Scotland and is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
External appointments Group plc as the majority shareholder.
As Experience and qualications Andrew is currently the Senior Independent Group Finance Director at The Royal Bank Priscilla was most recently Group Human Director at Segro plc, the British and European of Scotland Group plc, Bruce has extensive Resources Director at Prudential plc and a Industrial Real Estate Investment Trust Company experience of the activities and markets in Non-Executive Director and member of the he will step down in April 2013, a trustee of which the Group operates.
Audit Committee at the Ministry of Defence.
the Royal School of Needlework, a NonKey Priscilla has previously held senior human Executive Director of RSN Enterprises Limited A Audit Committee resources positions across a number of and Royal London Mutual Insurance Society financial services and customer facing B Board Risk Committee Limited and a member of the Financial Reporting industries including roles at Abbey National C Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Review Panel of the Financial Reporting Council.
plc, where she was Executive Director, Human I Investment Committee Key strengths and contribution Resources: BAA plc, where she was Group N Nomination Committee Andrew has undertaken a number of Human Resources Director and Kingsher plc.
senior roles within the financial services R Remuneration Committee She graduated in Law with Honours from the and insurance industries.
In addition, he University of North East London.
Independent Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 57
