Corporate governance report Corporate governance is at the core of what we do The UK Corporate Governance Code Contents The following report details how the Board has applied the 60 The UK Corporate Governance Code principles and provisions in the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code, as required 60 Leadership by the UK Listing Rules.
The report fulls the requirements of the 64 Board effectiveness Corporate Governance statement for the purposes of the 67 Accountability Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
68 Remuneration The Company was not listed and therefore not subject to the 68 Committee reports Code until 16 October 2012.
However, the Board considers 68 Audit Committee that the Company had achieved the required level of compliance 71 Board Risk Committee with the Code by the time it listed.
The Company is compliant with the Code with the exception that the Companys Directors, 73 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee some of whom joined the Board in the run-up to the IPO, are yet 74 Investment Committee to be subject to an annual assessment.
It is intended that such an 75 Nomination Committee assessment will take place for all Directors during 2013.
76 Remuneration Committee A copy of the Code is available from www.
77 Relations with shareholders 78 Directors remuneration report Leadership What is our integrated approach to corporate governance?
91 Other disclosures The Group undertook a significant programme of work to establish a governance system appropriate for a stand-alone listed company.
This included the adoption of a new set of high-level controls, risk management policies and minimum standards.
The Group also observed examples of good governance practice and emerging legal and regulatory developments to anticipate and meet the expectations of its investors and other stakeholders.
A s a Board we are collectively The Groups integrated approach to governance is demonstrated by the way in which the various projects undertaken during the responsible for leading the business year were managed, chief among which was the Fit for Listing and targeting long-term success.
Each project involved consultation and regular meetings with stakeholders, and accountability for delivery was cascaded are all fully committed to acting in the throughout the business.
Companys best interests to take the Company along this journey.
Mike Biggs, Chairman 60 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors report: Corporate governance The Board and Committee governance structure Direct Line Insurance Group plc Board of Directors Corporate Social Investment Nomination Remuneration Audit Board Risk Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chair: Chair: Chair: Chair: Chair: Chair: Andrew Palmer Jane Hanson Andrew Palmer Mike Biggs Priscilla Vacassin Jane Hanson Fit for Listing Policies and minimum standards Given the scale of organisational change which was to take The Group operates under a system of policies and supporting place during 2012, a Fit for Listing work stream was created minimum standards.
In addition to covering areas across the that brought together the interests of relevant stakeholders.
business such as risk, internal controls, finance and operational The purpose was to establish a framework for delivering the policies and minimum standards, these include Stock Exchange transition of Direct Line Group from limited to listed status, as announcements: registrar processes: the control of inside well as to establish and confirm management and operational information: share dealing: disclosure requirements and the focus, given the other work streams also underway.
requirements under the ongoing obligations of the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Robust governance was established, with strong technical and project management input.
This involved all the main Transformation plan business stakeholders and the Executive Committee with The Transformation plan launched in 2010 consisted of three phases: appropriate escalation to and oversight by the Board and Phase 1: Recover profitability the participation of the RBS Group and Direct Line Group Divestment Steering Group where appropriate.
Phase 2: Rebuild competitive advantage The primary aim of the Fit for Listing work stream was to deliver Phase 3: Deliver a disciplined, profitable business the compliance, regulatory and governance obligations of the FSA, the UK Listing Authority and the Financial Reporting Following the return to profit in 2011, the Group redened its Council FRC.
It was also to embed this work within an strategic plan through five pillars: distribution, pricing, claims, overall philosophy of achieving good governance.
costs and Commercial and International businesses.
The Group is making good progress as it targets a 15% RoTE.
Relationship Agreement An element of achieving independence and substantial Customer conduct operational separation from RBS Group was to enter into A working group was set up to assess our conduct towards our a Relationship Agreement setting out the terms of the customers during transactions, to highlight potential failures of relationship between Direct Line Group and RBS Group delivering appropriate customer outcomes.
This includes how following the listing.
our entire business thinks about interactions with our customers.
The Relationship Agreement makes explicit the independence The working group manages customer conduct across of Direct Line Group from its major shareholder, RBS Group, Direct Line Group.
It assesses and reports our performance, whilst making express provision for RBS Group to be entitled while consulting on improvements and emerging conduct themes.
to the information it needs from Direct Line Group in order to meet its legal, regulatory and accounting obligations.
It also Culture and behaviours sets out RBS Groups rights to nominate Directors depending The organisational and governance changes made in 2012 on the proportion of its shareholding in the Company.
This is were accompanied by a corresponding programme to an important piece of governance architecture.
reinforce the culture and behaviours we require to enable Direct Line Group to achieve its strategic objectives.
See High level controls page 47 for more information on this initiative.
Under the provisions of the Groups governance framework, the Group operated a system of high level controls, covering areas relating to the Board, Board Committees, strategic planning, risk management, internal audit, delegated authorities, monitoring and reporting on internal control, and the policy framework.
This document was revised during the year to reect the separation from RBS Group and the Companys own premium listing.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 61 Corporate governance report continued Three Lines of Defence What is the role of the Board and what are its members The Board has adopted a Three Lines of Defence operating key responsibilities?
model as part of our approach to risk management.
The The specic duties of the Board are clearly set out in its terms of model addresses: reference.
These address a wide range of corporate governance issues and list those items that are specically reserved for t the roll-out of our risk strategy and wider risk framework consideration and decision by the Board.
throughout the business: The role of the Board is to organise and direct the affairs of the t a risk function to implement and develop the policy Group in a manner that is most likely to promote its long-term framework: and success for the benefit of its members as a whole.
t the provision of independent assurance by our internal audit function over the adequacy and effectiveness of The Board is the main decision-making forum for the Group.
It our governance, risk and control framework.
has overall responsibility for managing the business and affairs of the Group, the establishment of the Groups strategy and the We provide further information on this model in the raising and allocation of capital.
The main responsibilities of the Risk Management report on page 26.
Board include: How are we structured to ensure good, strong governance?
t Ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources The Group started 2012 with a structure appropriate to the are in place for the Group to meet its objectives.
needs of a wholly-owned subsidiary of our parent, RBS Group.
t Managing risk effectively through setting, approving and The appointment of new Directors helped enable the restructuring monitoring the Groups strategic aims with regard to risk of our Board Committee architecture, leading to the creation appetite, stress scenarios, mitigating actions and longer-term of a Remuneration Committee in April, a Corporate Social strategic threats.
Responsibility Committee and a Nomination Committee when we listed.
Under the provisions of RBS Groups governance t Monitoring and overseeing the Groups operations to ensure framework, Direct Line Groups risk and audit functions were competent and prudent management and sound planning.
overseen at Board level by a combined Risk and Audit t Scrutinising the performance of management in meeting Committee.
Following the principles set out in the Walker agreed goals and objectives.
Report, this Committee was separated on listing into a Board t Monitoring the reporting of performance.
Risk Committee and an Audit Committee.
We also have an Investment Committee.
t Satisfying itself as to the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management The governance structure illustrating the relationship between and internal control are robust and defensible.
the Board and its Committees is set out on page 61. t Determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the The Board has established its Board Committees to assist Executive Directors.
it in delivering its responsibilities.
Each Committee plays a t Taking a prime role in succession planning and appointing vital role in ensuring that the Board operates efficiently and and, where necessary, removing Executive Directors.
gives appropriate consideration to matters.
The composition, t Discharging its responsibilities in accordance with attendance, role and focus of each Committee are set out relevant legislation and guidance.
Board roles and responsibilities Role Responsibilities Chairman t To provide leadership of the Board and ensure its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
Chief Executive officer t To develop and deliver the Groups strategy within the policies and values established by the Board.
Non-Executive Director t To provide constructive challenge and to help to develop proposals on strategy.
Senior Independent Director t To provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
t To be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or other Executive Directors has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
62 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors report: Corporate governance How often does the Board meet?
The Board met regularly during 2012: in addition to the 11 scheduled meetings a further 11 ad hoc meetings were held.
Not all the Directors were available to attend the ad hoc meetings.
Details at attendance of Board and Board Committee meetings by Directors during the year are set out below and on pages 68 to 77.
Prior to listing on 16 October 2012 After listing on 16 October 2012 Scheduled Ad hoc Scheduled Ad hoc 1 1 1 1,8 meetings meetings meetings meeting Chairman 2 Andrew Palmer 8 of 8 9 of 10 2 of 3 0 of 1 3 Mike Biggs 4 of 4 5 of 5 3 of 3 1 of 1 Senior Non-Executive Director 4 Glyn Jones 1 of 1 3 of 3 0 of 1 Non-Executive Directors 4 Mark Catton 1 of 1 2 of 3 0 of 1 Jane Hanson 8 of 8 9 of 10 3 of 3 1 of 1 4 Clare Thompson 1 of 1 2 of 2 3 of 3 1 of 1 4 Priscilla Vacassin 1 of 1 1 of 1 3 of 3 0 of 1 3 Bruce Van Saun 1 of 4 5 of 5 3 of 3 0 of 1 5 Ian Falconer 2 of 2 1 of 1 6 Christopher Sullivan 1 of 1 0 of 1 Executive Directors Paul Geddes 8 of 8 10 of 10 3 of 3 1 of 1 John Reizenstein 8 of 8 10 of 10 3 of 3 1 of 1 7 Sheree Howard 2 of 2 3 of 3 Notes: 1.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend.
Acting Chairman from 27 January 2012 to 27 April 2012.
Mike Biggs joined the Board as Chairman and Bruce Van Saun was appointed to the Board on 27 April 2012.
Clare Thompson and Priscilla Vacassin joined the Board on 3 and 13 September respectively.
Mark Catton and Glyn Jones joined the Board on 24 September 2012.
Resigned from the Board on 23 February 2012.
Resigned from the Board on 27 January 2012.
Resigned from the Board on 26 March 2012.
Although half the Board attended this meeting, all Directors were provided with papers and given the opportunity to comment ahead of the meeting.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, who was independent on his appointment to the Board, two Executive Directors, five independent Non-Executive Directors and two non-independent Non-Executive Directors nominated by The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc.
The names of the Directors who served as at the end of the year, together with their biographical details and other information, are shown on pages 56 to 57.
Mike Biggs, Glyn Jones, Mark Catton, Clare Thompson, Priscilla Vacassin and Bruce Van Saun all joined the Board during the year, and Chris Sullivan, Ian Falconer and Sheree Howard left the Board.
The respective dates are shown in the notes to the table.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 63 Corporate governance report continued How are the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Board effectiveness officer distinct?
A t Direct Line Group we have worked The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the hard to ensure that the Board has the Chief Executive officer are clearly differentiated.
The division of responsibilities at the top of a Company is required by appropriate mix of skills, experience, the Code to ensure that no one person may exert absolute independence and knowledge to help control.
The role statements of both the Chairman and the Chief Executive officer were reviewed during the year and deliver our long-term strategy.
It is vitally approved by the Board on 21 September 2012.
These important to us that we have the right statements for the Chairman and the Chief Executive officer, which explain their responsibilities, are available on the combination of people to support our Groups website.
ambitions for the future and we spent What is the governance framework below Board and considerable time building a Board which Board Committee level?
we believe has the capabilities to do this.
Although the Board is ultimately responsible for the success of the Company, Paul Geddes, the Chief Executive officer, Mike Biggs, Chairman has received delegated authority from the Board to manage the Groups day-to-day operations.
How do you ensure the Board of Directors is balanced and the majority of Directors are independent?
In turn, the senior executives who report to him take As part of the process of creating a Code-compliant Board, responsibility for managing the businesses and functions the Company focused on obtaining the elements considered within the Group, and each member of the Executive necessary to maximise the Boards effectiveness see the Committee has the financial and other authorities needed process for appointing new people to the Board overleaf.
to manage their respective areas.
Consequently, the Board and its committees have been constructed in a way that ensures that an appropriate Paul Geddes and these senior executives are supported by balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge the functional departments of the Group.
of the sector and diversity exists to enable the Directors The diagram Direct Line Groups Executive Committee to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
below illustrates the management governance framework.
In assessing the independence of each Director we considered What is the role of the Executive Committee?
whether each was independent in character and judgement The Executive Committee is the principal management committee and particularly whether there were relationships or circumstances that assists the Chief Executive officer in the day-to-day which were likely to affect his or her judgement.
management of the business as a whole.
It supports him in The individuals attributes were established as part of the setting performance targets and in implementing the Groups selection procedure.
Please see the section What is strategy and direction as determined by the Board.
The the process for appointing new people to the Board?
Committee assists him to monitor key objectives and commercial for the desired attributes of our Directors and a description plans to deliver the Groups targets.
It also helps him to evaluate of the selection process.
new business initiatives and opportunities, and receives and considers reports on operational matters, where these are material to the Group or have cross-company implications.
Direct Line Groups Executive Committee Paul Geddes Chief Executive officer Rob Jamie Darrell Jonathan Steve Mark Angela John Humphrey Jos Tom Bailhache Brown Evans Greenwood Maddock Martin Morrison Reizenstein Tomlinson Vazquez Woolgrove Director Managing Chief Managing Managing Human Chief Chief General Counsel Chief Managing of Director of Customer Director of Director of Resources Information Financial and Company Risk Director of Communications International officer Commercial Claims Director officer officer Secretary officer Personal Lines Functional departments 64 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors report: Corporate governance In addition, the Company employs a continuous process What is the process for appointing new people to the Board?
of reviewing independence from management and invites the The Company spent considerable time on recruiting its new declaration of any conict of interest that could interfere with Directors during 2012.
Assisted by selection consultants JCA Group, each Directors ability to act in the best interests of the Group.
and deploying skills matrices to identify desired attributes, UK company law allows the Board to authorise a situation the Directors pursued a formal, rigorous and transparent in which there is, or may be, a conict between the interests selection procedure.
Separate requirements were developed of the Group and the direct or indirect interests of a Director for Non-Executive Directors, the Senior Independent Director or between the Directors duties to the Group and to another and the Chairman.
Our target search criteria for Board person.
The Board has adopted procedures for ensuring members included: that its powers to authorise conicts operate effectively.
For Experience this purpose a register of conicts, and of any authorisation t significant Board experience in major listed businesses.
of a conict granted by the Board, is maintained by the Company Secretary and regularly reviewed by the Board.
t Extensive knowledge and operational experience in insurance at a senior level.
Mark Catton and Bruce Van Saun are non-independent t Experience and appreciation of businesses with customer Non-Executive Directors by virtue of being nominated for service at their core perceived as advantageous.
appointment to the Board by RBS Group, the Companys majority shareholder.
RBS Group has committed to the t Likely to have had executive experience.
European Commission to sell Direct Line Group as a condition Attributes of its receipt of state aid in 2009.
To comply with this requirement, t Widely recognised as an individual of high repute RBS Group must cede control of Direct Line Group that is, and integrity who can rapidly gain Executive and reduce its shareholding to below 50% by the end of 2013 Non-Executive colleagues respect and trust.
and must have divested its entire interest by the end of 2014.
Mark Catton and Bruce Van Saun will step down in stages t An independent thinker who is able to engage as RBS Groups holding in the Company diminishes.
Please constructively and add real value to Board discussions.
refer to page 82 for further information.
t Well organised and committed, an individual who takes their Non-Executive role seriously.
Balance of Board members t Robust, straight talking, open and approachable with a non-emotional and calm demeanour.
Chairman Independent Non-Executive Directors t Supportive of the executive team while being able to Non-independent Non-Executive Directors challenge constructively.
Exective Directors t A team player and a good listener with the style and ability to be a highly constructive member of the Board.
t A sound understanding of the requirements of good public reporting and the ability to identify whether what is being presented in meetings stands up against reporting standards.
t Strong communication and presentation skills, with the ability Experience of Board members to get under the skin of the business and a strong desire to gain a deep understanding of what is going on in and Insurance around the Group.
Banking Finance The selection procedure included a number of interviews Management consultancy with JCA Group and meetings with existing Board members.
Corporate governance The Company also obtained a range of references for Audit each candidate.
Asset management Human resources The Nomination Committee will adopt an approach modelled Marketing on this selection procedure for future appointments.
Risk management In addition, all 10 have experience of working in the financial services sector.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 65 Corporate governance report continued How long are the Directors appointed for?
The Directors may appoint additional members to the Board 1 Our induction process during the year.
Subsequently, in accordance with a provision The Group provides Directors with formal induction sessions, of the Code and the Companys Articles of Association, including the following matters: Direct Line Group submits Directors for re-election on an annual basis, subject to the Groups independence criteria t Overview of business where appropriate, ongoing commitment to Group activities t Reserving, including reinsurance and satisfactory performance.
t Accounting, including capital and investments In line with these arrangements, all 10 Directors will be subject t Risk regulatory and other risks to re-election by shareholders at our Annual General Meeting AGM on 6 June 2013. t Solvency II overview t Complaints and treating customers fairly Non-Executive Directors are normally expected to serve two xed terms of three years, but may be invited to serve a third t Claims term of three years.
t Strategy and change What level of commitment is expected from our Board members?
t International All our Directors, including the Chairman, have indicated that t Categories and products they are able to allocate sufficient time to the work of Direct Line Group to enable them to discharge their respective duties t Marketing and responsibilities effectively.
Directors appointment letters t Communications contain a condition to this effect, and Directors were made t Human Resources fully aware, and accepted, that the time commitment would be greater than normal in 2012 given the need to deliver t Competition law the IPO transaction and associated restructuring activities.
t Anti-bribery and corruption Our Directors have had a considerable work load during t Anti-money laundering 2012 and showed great commitment to meeting the Note: requirements of the business in a year of transformation.
Further sessions are taking place in 2013.
In all, 22 Board meetings were held during the year, 11 of which were scheduled and a further 11 ad hoc.
How do we ensure that Board members have adequate feedback on the performance of their committees.
Feedback resources and training to undertake the role effectively?
on the Chairmans performance will be provided directly to The Company believes it is crucial to provide Directors with the Senior Independent Director, who will discuss this with adequate resources and training and devoted considerable the other Non-Executive Directors before their one-to-one time during the year to ensure that all Directors, many of meetings with the Chairman.
whom were new to the business, received induction to The Group also intends to engage the services of an help them understand their duties and responsibilities and external consultant to facilitate the evaluation of the Board develop knowledge of the business as quickly as possible.
and its committees within three years of listing on the These sessions were based on a comprehensive technical London Stock Exchange.
acclimatisation programme, developed specically to meet the needs of Direct Line Group Directors, with individual What is the Direct Line Groups approach to diversity?
Directors provided with specic training in such areas as The Board considered carefully the diversity of its Board reserving, including reinsurance.
members from a variety of perspectives and sought to Further training and updates are provided to the Board ensure that Directors had the relevant range of knowledge, and its Committees as appropriate.
skills, experience and, where necessary, independence to help the Company deliver its strategy.
How do we ensure we have an effective Board?
With three women out of 10 Directors, the Governments The Board signicantly changed over 2012.
It was not at guidelines, the recommendations of Lord Daviess report full complement until September, prior to the listing of the Women on Boards and related initiatives such as the Company in October.
work of the 30 Percent Club have been met in respect For these reasons, the Board did not undertake a formal of gender diversity.
evaluation of its performance in 2012.
We intend to conduct a comprehensive review in 2013, when individual To further governance of our gender-diversity programme Directors will be subject to a performance evaluation, and the we have included an appropriate remit in the terms of Chairman will meet with each Director and provide feedback reference of the Nomination Committee.
In this, diversity, on a one-to-one basis.
Committee chairmen will also receive including gender diversity, features as one of the criteria for 66 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors report: Corporate governance the selection of Directors to the Board.
Also, the Corporate Accountability Social Responsibility Committee intends to consider the issue A t Direct Line Group we are in the context of ensuring the diversity of the Group talent determined to present a fair, balanced pipeline for future requirements, with mentoring schemes for high-potential candidates and associated training and and understandable insight into our development programmes.
We As an organisation we are committed to ensuring that diversity endeavour to make this assessment is promoted across our business and that everyone is treated as clear as possible.
fairly irrespective of their racial or ethnic origin, gender, age, disability, religion, belief or sexual orientation.
This will apply Mike Biggs, Chairman during our day-to-day activities at work through to our recruitment process for external candidates and the selection for promotion of internal employees, ensuring that we employ only the best What is the Boards responsibility in relation to the financial people for the role based on merit and evidence of their and business reporting in this Annual Report & Accounts?
We also consider The Board is responsible for providing shareholders with diversity as including diversity of thought and approach.
a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
Building a working environment where all our employees can develop to their full potential is important to us and we work An explanation from the Directors of their responsibility for hard to broaden the range of approaches available to our preparing the financial statements is set out in the statement people, ensure our policies and processes support them and of Directors responsibilities on page 95.
This is complemented encourage divergent thinking.
by the statement by our auditors explaining their reporting responsibilities on page 97.
We need a wide range of talented people to deliver great service to our diverse customers.
Our commitment to valuing We meet specic responsibilities placed on the Board under diversity is reected in our Diversity Policy.
It is the responsibility the provisions of the Code as follows: of everyone to demonstrate our commitment through how we treat others.
Some of the benets of a diverse workforce include: t An explanation of how the Company generates value over the long term within the business model and the strategy t Greater access to different perspectives and sources for delivering Company objectives is on pages 6 to 23. of information.
t How the Board has concluded that the business remains t Improved ability to respond and change through creativity a going concern is discussed on page 94. and innovation: innovative approaches to products.
t The arrangements established by the Board for the t Increasing employee engagement, which helps attract new application of risk management and internal control staff and retain those already here, reduces recruitment costs principles are detailed on pages 67 to 68. and can increase productivity.
t The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee oversight t Building and tapping into a deeper pool of talent.
of the management of the relationship with the Companys auditors.
A separate Audit Committee report is set out on In a competitive and challenging business environment, diversity pages 68 to 71 and provides details of the role and is a necessity and an advantage.
It helps us retain business, activities of the Committee and its relationship with the identify new markets and attract new customers.
Our customers internal and external auditors.
collectively represent a variety of backgrounds and nationalities and we need to understand their particular needs.
When our What action has the Board taken to determine the nature workforce mirrors the diversity of our customers we are better and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in placed to understand, anticipate and meet those needs through achieving its strategic objectives?
The Board acknowledges it has overall responsibility for the Groups risk management and internal control system, and has complied with the Code by establishing a continuous process Gender diversity of Board members for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
This process includes risks arising from social, Male environmental and ethical matters.
Female Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 67
