Statement of Corporate Governance Compliance attended a number of non-scheduled meetings to deal with special ad-hoc issues.
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is responsible for good governance, Meetings Audit Remuneration and this statement describes how the Company applies the held and Board Committee Committee principles identified in the UK Corporate Governance Code attendance meetings meetings meetings published in May 2010 the Governance Code, which is Allan 5 5 3 3 1 1 available on the Financial Reporting Councils website: McKenzie www.
uk, throughout the financial year.
The Board Frank 2 2 n a n a confirms that the Company has complied throughout the Frame accounting period to 31 August 2012 with the relevant David 5 5 3 3 1 1 provisions of the Governance Code.
Gairns The Company is also a member of the Association of Tony 5 5 n a 1 1 Lowrie Investment Companies AIC, which has published its own Code of corporate governance to recognise the special Iain 5 5 3 3 n a circumstances of investment trusts.
The Board is of the McLaren opinion that the Company has complied with the Peter 5 5 n a n a recommendations of the AIC Code.
Maynard Iain Watt 5 5 n a n a The Board Member of Audit Committee Member of Remuneration Committee Kathryn Langridge was appointed on 29 October 2012 and therefore did not The Board consists of seven non-executive Directors.
Profiles attend meetings during the financial year of the Board members appear on pages 18 to 20 of the annual report.
Each Director has the requisite range of The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for business and financial experience to enable the Board to decision, and the requirement for Board approval on these provide clear and effective leadership and proper stewardship matters is communicated directly to the senior staff of the of the Company.
Mr Gairns is the Senior Independent Manager.
Such matters include overall strategy, review of Director and is available to shareholders in the event that investment policy, performance, gearing policy, treasury, there are concerns that cannot be resolved through marketing, Board composition, corporate governance policy discussion with the Chairman.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board to enable the Directors The Company has no executive Directors or employees.
All to function effectively and to discharge their responsibilities.
Directors are considered to be independent of the Manager The Board also reviews the financial statements and revenue and to be free of any material relationship with the Manager budgets.
which could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board takes the view that length of service The Board monitors on a regular basis the direct and indirect does not compromise independence.
This is consistent with interests of each Director and has concluded that there were the AIC Code.
When making a recommendation for reno situations which gave rise to an interest of a Director electing a Director, the Board will take into account the onwhich conflicted with the interests of the Company.
The going requirements of the Governance Code.
Board adopts a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and has implemented appropriate procedures The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys designed to prevent bribery.
It delegates, through an investment management agreement and specific instructions, the day-to-day Performance Evaluation management of the Company to the Manager, Aberdeen An appraisal of each Director, including the Chairman, and of Asset Managers Limited.
the operation of the Board and its Committees, was undertaken during the year.
The Chairmans performance The Board normally meets at least five times each year, and assessment was led by the Senior Independent Director.
The more frequently where business needs require.
In addition, Board also reviewed the Chairmans and Directors other there is regular contact between the Directors and the commitments.
The Board is satisfied that each Directors Manager throughout the year.
The following table sets out performance continues to be effective, and that each the number of scheduled Board meetings including remains fully committed to the Company.
Committees held during the financial year and the number of meetings attended by each Director.
Directors also During the year, the Board used an external consultant to carry out an evaluation of the Boards performance.
Feedback 26 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc from the evaluation confirmed that The skills essential for themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
the proper supervision of the activities of the Company The Board has implemented the provisions of the appear to be present and the overall quality of the Board Governance Code whereby all Directors of the Company will stand for re-election on an annual basis.
The Board has appears to be high.
Board meetings were considered to be of reviewed the skills and experience of each Director, and a high standard, to be the right number and of the right supports their re-election.
It is the Boards intention to use an external consultant to assist in the Boards performance evaluation every three years.
New Directors will be given appropriate induction from the Manager.
All Directors are entitled to receive appropriate and There is no separate Nomination Committee.
appraisals, succession planning, new appointments and training are considered by the whole Board.
There is a procedure for a Director to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Succession Planning Remuneration Committee In line with the Companys strong commitment to its corporate governance responsibilities, the Board regularly The Remuneration Committee, which comprises David reviews its performance and structure to ensure it has the Gairns Chairman, Allan McKenzie and Tony Lowrie, is correct mix of relevant skills, diversity and experience for the responsible for determining the level of Directors fees, effective conduct of the Companys business.
New Directors having taken external advice.
The terms of reference are are identified against the requirements of the Companys available on request and on the Companys website.
Details business and the need to have a balanced Board.
For new of Directors remuneration are contained within the appointments a description of the required role is prepared Directors Remuneration Report.
and nominations of Directors are sought in the financial and investment sectors.
Internal Control The Board is responsible for the Companys system of The Board welcomes greater transparency in the fulfilment of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board its responsibilities to shareholders.
New Board appointments confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, are now routinely facilitated by an external recruitment firm evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the to ensure that a wide range of candidates can be considered.
This process has been in place for the year under In all searches, the over-riding priority is to appoint the review and up to the date of approval of this annual report person with the best mix of experience and skills to and accounts.
It is regularly reviewed by the Board and complement the existing make-up of the Board and having accords with the FRCs guidance, Internal Control: Revised due regard for the benefits of diversity, including gender, on Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control systems.
In particular, it The Board has agreed a succession planning programme in has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and order to provide an appropriate balance between new blood evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and and continuity, in line with good corporate governance.
In the policies by which these risks are managed.
The significant accordance with that programme, Mr Watt will retire at the risks faced by the Company are as follows: forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Following a review of its skills and expertise, the Board recognised the advantages financial: of having representatives with investment management operational: experience particularly in the Far East.
An external consultant compliance: and was used to identify potential candidates which resulted in reputational.
the appointment of Kathryn Langridge as a non-executive director on 29 October 2012.
Ms Langridge has 30 years The Directors have delegated the investment management of experience in the investment industry with particular focus the Companys assets to the Manager within overall on emerging and Asian markets.
She will offer herself for reguidelines, and this embraces implementation of the system election by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General of internal control, including financial, operational and Meeting.
The Board supports her candidature.
compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit The Companys Articles of Association provide that a function which undertakes periodic examination of business Director appointed during the year is required to retire and processes, including compliance with the terms of the seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting and that all Directors are required to submit Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 27 Statement of Corporate Governance continued management agreement, and ensures that recommendations Accountability and Audit to improve controls are implemented.
The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Risks are identified and documented through a risk auditor in connection with the financial statements appear management framework by each function within the on pages 30 and 32.
Risk is considered in the context of the FRC guidance, and includes financial, regulatory, market The members of the Audit Committee are Mr Gairns operational and reputational risk.
This helps the internal audit Chairman, Mr McKenzie and Mr McLaren, who are all risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
As the Board believes that Mr Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Board, and McKenzie is considered to be independent and there are no timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to conflicts of interest, the Board considers it appropriate for Mr systems.
The implementation of any remedial action required McKenzie to be a member of the Audit Committee.
All is monitored and feedback provided to the Board.
members of the Audit Committee are chartered accountants and have the necessary recent and relevant financial Note 18 to the accounts provides further information on experience.
The Audit Committee considers reports from the risks.
The key components designed to provide effective external auditor and the Managers risk management internal control are outlined below: functions, including internal audit and compliance.
The terms The Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts of reference of the Audit Committee, which are available on which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities request and on the Companys website, are reviewed and reand review its performance: the emphasis is on obtaining assessed on an annual basis.
The main responsibilities of the the relevant degree of assurance and not merely reporting Audit Committee are: by exception.
The Board and the Manager have agreed clearly defined to review and monitor the internal control systems and risk investment criteria, specified levels of authority and management systems on which the Company is reliant.
Reports on these issues, including to consider annually whether there is a need for the performance statistics and investment valuations, are Company to have its own internal audit function.
regularly submitted to the Board and there are meetings to monitor the integrity of the interim and annual financial with the Manager as appropriate.
statements of the Company by reviewing, and challenging As a matter of course, the Managers compliance where necessary, the actions and judgements of the department continually reviews the Managers operations.
Written agreements are in place, which specifically define to meet with the external auditor to review their proposed the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third audit programme of work and the findings of the auditor.
The Committee also uses this as an opportunity to assess The Board has considered the need for an internal audit the effectiveness of the audit process.
function but, because of the compliance and internal to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the control systems in place within the Manager, has decided to external auditor to supply non-audit services.
The non-audit place reliance on the Managers systems and internal audit fees for the year to 31 August 2012 were 4,240 2011 - procedures.
4,000, relating to the review of the interim accounts.
The The Audit Committee carried out six monthly reviews of Board will review any future non-audit fees in the light of risk management and internal controls, including the the requirement to maintain the auditors independence.
internal audit and compliance functions.
At its October to review the arrangements in place within the Manager 2012 meeting, the Audit Committee performed its annual whereby staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about assessment of internal controls for the year ended 31 possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or August 2012 and taking account of events since 31 August other matters.
The results of the assessment were reported to the to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the Board.
appointment of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external Internal control systems are designed to meet the auditor.
Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is to monitor and review annually the external auditors exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure qualification.
At its October 2012 meeting, the Committee to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only was satisfied that the auditor remained independent and provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against objective.
to review the performance of the Manager and its compliance with the Management Agreement.
28 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc Going Concern intend to be available at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and shareholders are encouraged to attend.
Proxy Shareholders are given the opportunity to vote on the voting figures for each resolution are announced to the continuation of the Company every three years.
The last meeting after voting on a show of hands.
continuation vote was in December 2009 when shareholders voted in favour of continuation.
Shareholders have the right Proxy Voting as an Institutional Shareholder to vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on whether to continue the Company as an investment trust.
The Board has delegated responsibility for actively monitoring the activities of portfolio companies to the The Companys assets consist substantially of equity shares Manager.
The Board has reviewed and accepts the Managers in companies listed on recognised stock exchanges and in Corporate Governance Principles, which may be found on the most circumstances are realisable within a short timescale.
Managers website, at http: www.
aberdeenThe Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to asset.
These adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the Principles set out the Managers framework on corporate accounts, and they consider that the Company has adequate governance, proxy voting and shareholder engagement in resources to continue in operational existence for the relation to the companies in which the Manager has invested foreseeable future.
The Board has also reviewed the Managers Disclosure Response to the UK Stewardship Code, which appears on the Managers website, at the web-address Review of Manager given above.
The Board keeps the resources of the Manager under constant review.
In addition, it conducts an annual review of The Manager is responsible for reviewing, on a regular basis, the terms and conditions of the Management Agreement the annual reports, circulars and other publications produced Agreement and of all aspects of the Managers by the portfolio companies and for attending company performance under this Agreement.
The notice period for meetings.
The Manager, in the absence of explicit instruction the Company under the Agreement if it wishes to terminate from the Board, is empowered to use discretion in the the Agreement is three months or on shorter notice in exercise of the Companys voting rights.
Compensation is payable in lieu of the unexpired notice period if actual notice is less than the The Board recognises and supports the Managers policy of notice period.
Following the most recent review, the Board active engagement with investee companies and the voting concluded that the Manager, whose team is well-qualified of all of the shares held by the Company.
The Board receives and experienced, had satisfactorily met the terms of its from the Manager regular reports on the exercise by the Agreement with the Company, and is satisfied that the Manager of the Companys voting rights and discusses with continuing appointment of the Manager is in the interests of the Manager any issues arising.
It is the Boards view that the Company and its shareholders.
having an active voting policy and a process for the monitoring by the Board of the Managers exercise of those Relations with Shareholders votes, especially in relation to controversial issues, aids the The Directors place great importance on communication efficient exercise of the Companys governance with shareholders.
Besides shareholders, the report and responsibilities.
accounts are widely distributed to other parties who have an interest in the Companys performance.
Shareholders and Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible potential investors may obtain up-to-date information on Investment Policy the Company through the Managers freephone information The Directors, through the Manager, encourage companies in service, and the Company responds to letters from which investments are made to adhere to best practice in the shareholders on a wide range of issues.
The Manager area of Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible maintains contact with institutional shareholders and feeds Investing.
They believe that this can best be achieved by back shareholder views to the Board.
The Chairman also entering into a dialogue with company management to meets with representatives of the major shareholders during encourage them, where necessary, to improve their policies the financial year.
The Companys annual and half-yearly in both areas.
reports and other publications can be downloaded from the Companys website, www.
The Managers ultimate objective, however, is to deliver superior investment return for their clients.
Accordingly, It is the intention of the Board that, in the ordinary course, whilst the Manager will seek to favour companies which the notice of the Annual General Meeting included within pursue best practice in these areas, this must not be to the the annual report and accounts is normally sent out at least detriment of the return on the investment portfolio.
20 working days in advance of the meeting.
All Directors Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 29
