THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Principles and Compliance The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of Corporate Governance and is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
The Board of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, except as set out below.
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive executive directors remuneration the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc, being an externally managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The terms of reference for the Board and the Audit Committee are reviewed and updated periodically to bring them in line with latest best practice and to ensure compliance with the AIC Code.
The Companys Corporate Governance procedures are considered regularly by the Board and amended as necessary.
The Board The Board comprises seven non-executive Directors, each of whom the Board regards as wholly independent of the Companys Manager.
Some commentators have a view that length of service on a board can compromise independence from the manager.
The AIC does not believe that this is the case for investment companies and therefore does not recommend that long serving directors be prevented from forming part of the independent majority.
Chairman The Chairman of the Company is Jim Pettigrew, a non-executive and independent Director who has no conflicting relationships.
He has been a member of the Board since 2005 and was the audit committee chairman up to 22 July 2011, when he was appointed as Chairman following the retirement of Scott Dobbie on the same day.
Senior Independent Director The Companys Senior Independent Director is Richard Barfield.
Board Balance The Directors have a range of business, financial and asset management skills as well as experience relevant to the direction and control of the Company.
Brief biographical details of members of the Board are shown on page 11.
