20 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Appointment, Re-election and Tenure Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of ordinary shareholders and Directors have the power to appoint a Director.
The Articles of Association require that a Director shall be subject to election at the first AGM after appointment and re-election at least every three years thereafter.
All Directors served throughout the year, with the exception of Maxwell Ward who was appointed on 8 August 2011 and he will stand for election at the AGM on 20 July 2012.
In accordance with the UK Code of Corporate Governance, at every AGM all Directors shall retire and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Nomination Committee All Directors are members of the Nomination Committee which is chaired by Jim Pettigrew.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its duties and responsibilities.
These include regularly evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and whether to recommend the re-election of Directors at each AGM to shareholders.
The Committee is also responsible for identifying and nominating for approval of the Board, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available for inspection at the AGM, at the registered office of the Company and are also available on the Managers investment trust website.
As mentioned earlier, Richard Barfield will retire at the conclusion of this years AGM.
In order that the Board continues to have a balance of skills, experience and length of service and knowledge of the Company, it was decided that a new Director be appointed.
The Board instructed the Nomination Committee to carry out this process taking into consideration the above requirements as well as diversity of the Board and the ability of a new Director to devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out his or her duties effectively.
The Nomination Committee appointed an external search consultancy to identify potential candidates.
The Board was pleased that this process successfully identified a number of strong candidates and, after due consideration, the Board appointed Maxwell Ward a Director of the Company with effect from 8 August 2011.
The Board considers that, with his considerable knowledge and experience, Maxwell will make a valuable contribution to the Board and, therefore, recommends that shareholders support resolution 7 at the Companys AGM.
No Director has a contract of employment with the Company.
Directors terms and conditions of appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company and will also be available at the AGM.
A Director can be removed from office without notice or compensation upon being served with a written notice signed by all his co-Directors.
Board, Committee and Directors Performance Appraisal The Directors recognise the importance of the AIC Codes recommendation in respect of evaluating the performance of the Board as a whole, the Committees and individual Directors.
During the year, the Directors undertook an extensive review of the Board structure, including an evaluation of the performance of the Board, the Committees and of individual Directors.
This evaluation included intensive discussions between the Chairman, Senior Independent Director SID and other Directors.
The result of this continuous evaluation process was that the performance of the Board as a whole, the Committees of the Board, the Chairman and individual Directors was deemed fully satisfactory.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings All Directors are considered to have a good attendance record at Board and Committee meetings of the Company.
The following table sets out the number of scheduled Directors meetings held during the year and the number of meetings attended by each Director:
