Report of the Directors To the Members of Electra Private Equity PLC The Directors present the audited Accounts of the Group for the year ended 30 September 2012 and their Report on its affairs.
Investment Trust Status The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
HM Revenue and Customs has approved the Company as an investment trust under Section 1158 of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010 for the accounting period to 30 September 2011.
In accordance with the self-assessment of Corporation Tax this approval is based upon the computations submitted by the Company and is subject to the findings of any enquiries that HM Revenue and Customs may make.
The Directors are of the opinion that since that date the Company has conducted its affairs in a manner which will satisfy the conditions for continued approval as an investment trust under that section.
Business Review The Business Review describes the business of the Company and details the main risks and uncertainties associated with the Companys activities, taking into account performance as measured by the Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
Objective and Investment Policy The Objective and Investment Policy of the Company are set out on page 1.
Current and future development A review of the main features of the year is contained in the Chairmans Statement, the Investment Highlights and Portfolio Review.
The Board regularly reviews the development and strategic direction of the Company.
The Board believes that the current investment strategy which was approved by shareholders in October 2006 remains effective in the light of existing market conditions.
The Boards main focus continues to be on the Companys long-term investment return.
The Board, in consultation with the Manager, reviews, sets a strategy for and monitors the Companys total capital position and gearing.
Performance A detailed review of performance during the year is contained in the Investment Highlights and Portfolio Review.
A number of performance measures are considered by the Board and the Manager in assessing the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
The KPIs used to measure the progress and performance of the Company are established industry measures and are as follows: Q Return on equity over the long term Q The movement in net asset value per ordinary share Q The movement in share price Details of the KPIs are shown on page 2.
Risk management As the Company is focused on investment in private equity assets, Electra Partners aims to limit the risk attaching to the portfolio as a whole by careful selection of investments and by a spread of holdings in terms of overall portfolio analysis, age and geographic split in accordance with the Companys Objective and Investment Policy.
It is the role of the Board to review and manage all risks associated with the Company, either mitigating these directly or through Electra Partners.
The principal risks facing the Company include Market Price Risk, Credit Risk, Interest Rate Risk, Liquidity Risk and Capital Risk as further detailed in Note 19 of the Notes to Accounts.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012 63 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
