Introduction Responsibilities and terms of reference The Audit Committee provides independent monitoring, The Committees main responsibilities are to oversee and guidance and challenge to executive management with monitor: the integrity of the financial statements, including the aim of ensuring high standards of reporting, controls reviewing the findings of the external auditors: the effectiveness and compliance.
In doing so, it performs an important function of systems for internal control, financial reporting and risk for the Board and in providing assurance for shareholders.
management: the effectiveness of Internal Audit: the external The Committees role covers the four connected areas of audit process, including the appointment of the external financial reporting, risk, internal control and oversight of auditor, their fees, independence and objectivity: and the external and internal audit.
nature and scope of the external audit and its effectiveness.
The Committee is also responsible for the policy on the Committee membership and meetings engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance.
External All members of the Committee are independent nonlegal or other independent professional advice can be obtained executive directors.
John Warren, who chairs the Committee, at the Companys expense and this facility was not utilised is a qualified accountant and a previous group finance during the year.
director who has past experience in chairing audit committees and fulfils the requirement for recent and relevant financial The Committees terms of reference are available on the experience.
Alastair Lyons and Colin Holmes are also Companys website www.
co. uk investorqualified accountants and have broad business and centre corporate-governance.
operational experience and chair audit committees of listed companies.
This combination provides a high level Main activities during the year of financial expertise to fulfil the duties of the Committee.
The Committee followed a programme structured around the Recommendations on Committee membership are made to the annual reporting cycle and reports from Internal Audit, the Board by the Nomination Committee and it is also reviewed as external auditors and management.
The key financial reporting part of the Committees performance evaluation.
There were focus was, as usual, on the integrity of the preliminary results, no changes to Committee membership during the year.
the Annual Report, the half-yearly results and the half-yearly Attendance financial report, all published under IFRS.
As part of the Name Date of appointment Role at meetings review process, the Companys key accounting judgements John Warren 01 03 2006 Chairman 3 3 were considered, together with an assessment of subjective areas, and the Committee satisfied itself that the Annual Alastair Lyons 01 10 2008 Member 3 3 Report presented a true and fair view.
Matters informing Colin Holmes 01 12 2006 Member 3 3 the assessment of going concern were considered, as described on page 36.
Presentations for analysts following the The Committee met three times in 2012 and an overview of announcement of the final and half-yearly results also received the main activities is provided below.
Detailed papers and scrutiny before submission to the Board.
Submissions from the information were received sufficiently in advance of meetings external auditors relating to the 2011 final audit, the 2012 to allow proper consideration of matters for discussion.
interim review and the audit strategy for the 2012 final audit were discussed and assessed, and the results and effectiveness The Company Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance of the 2011 final audit were reviewed by assessing delivery Director attend meetings by invitation and were present at all and content against the audit plan, discussing and challenging meetings in 2012.
The external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and conclusions and audit judgements and obtaining feedback the Internal Audit Director were also in attendance at from those involved.
The Committee also met with the external auditors and Internal Audit, without executive management, following review of the 2011 financial statements, the final audit and the 2011 Internal Audit report and no matters of concern were raised in this discussion.
John Warren also met privately with both the audit engagement partner of the external auditors and the Internal Audit Director during the year.
The Committee is supported by Martin Palmer Group Company Secretary, who acts as secretary to the Committee.
54 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Audit Committee report Governance The Committee reviewed the system of internal control and risk Internal audit function management systems and reported its findings to the Board that The Internal Audit function follows an approved audit programme there were no material control weaknesses.
Reports from Internal using a risk based methodology and the Committee has approved Audit were considered and the content, conclusions and results its remit.
Reporting to the Committee includes summaries of all were challenged and tested and progress with the actions agreed completed and ongoing audit assignments, allowing members with management were reviewed.
The focus of the Internal of the Committee to question the Internal Audit Director.
Audit programme for 2013 and the resources that would be Progress against the annual audit programme is reviewed and needed were also reviewed.
A review was also completed of the managements response and speed of action in respect of issues Committees terms of reference and the Companys whistleblowing raised is monitored.
The effectiveness, workload and adequacy of policy and arrangements.
resources of the Internal Audit function is kept under review using a planning, reporting and review regime.
The freedom, scope and External auditors access allowed to Internal Audit in performing their duties during During the year, the Committee reviewed the independence the year were confirmed as unrestricted and the Internal Audit and objectivity of the external auditors, which was confirmed in Director has direct access to the Chairman of the Committee.
an independence letter containing information on procedures An external formal review of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit providing safeguards established by the external auditor.
function was completed towards the end of 2012 and the overall Regulation, professional requirements and ethical standards are outcome was positive, with opportunities being identified to add taken into account, together with consideration of all relationships value and support business growth.
between the Company and the external auditors and their staff.
Relations with the external auditors are managed through a series Performance evaluation of meetings and regular discussions and we ensure a high quality audit by challenging the key areas of the external auditors work.
The Committee commenced a performance evaluation towards the The relationship is kept under review and, following adopted end of 2012, using a discussion and interview process designed to practice, the audit engagement partner rotated on completion of produce an objective assessment of the Committees performance the 2011 final audit after five years in the post.
The Committee was found to be effective and continued to be well run, with the level of accounting Our 2013 AGM Notice contains a resolution for the re-appointment and financial expertise providing strong challenge.
It was also of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company.
In making this concluded that the Committee had appropriate terms of reference recommendation, the Committee took into account, amongst and had fulfilled its remit in 2012 and that the audit process other matters, the independence and objectivity of KPMG continued to be effective.
Audit Plc, their continuing effectiveness and cost.
The external auditors have been in post since flotation in 1997 and there are no contractual restrictions on the choice of external auditor.
John Warren The 2013 AGM Notice also contains a resolution to give the Chairman of the Audit Committee directors authority to determine the auditors remuneration, which provides a practical flexibility to the Committee.
22 February 2013 The Committee keeps under review its policy which requires the Committee to approve all non-audit services proposed to be undertaken by the external auditors, with the exception of tax advisory and compliance work undertaken in the ordinary course of business and audit related services, which are treated as pre-approved.
When an approval request is made, the Committee will have due regard to the nature of the non-audit service, whether the external auditor is a suitable supplier, whether there is likely to be any threat to independence and objectivity in the conduct of the audit, and the related fee level, both separately and relative to the audit fee.
For an analysis of fees paid to the external auditors, see note 5 on page 74.
The non-audit services provided during the year related to tax advisory and compliance work.
Provision of these services is not considered to impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
