Corporate governance report Dear Shareholder, Bovis Homes made strong progress in 2012, delivering significant profit improvement and substantial land investment.
This has been achieved in broadly stable but challenging market conditions and I am pleased with the progress that has been made in pursuit of the Groups growth strategy, which is driving our profitability and enhancing shareholder returns.
M alcolm Harris Chairman Once again, I am pleased to introduce the Corporate Governance During the year, we reviewed our policy on diversity, without Report, prepared and approved by the Board.
Its performance is making any changes to the published version, which states that supported by our high standards of corporate governance and I we will always make appointments to the Board based on merit, confirm that your Company was compliant with the provisions so that we have the right individuals in place.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code, published in June 2010, Once again, I would like to thank my colleagues on the Board for and remains so today.
their collective support and strong individual contributions during Leadership and effectiveness of the Board are the responsibilities the year, as we look forward to the challenges that lie ahead.
of the Chairman and 2012 saw the full range of Board activities We value our dialogue with all our shareholders, whether in from review and challenge of strategy, including our Strategy meetings and presentations during the year or at our AGM.
Day, to presentations from regional management, site visits I have again written to major shareholders advising of my and review of succession planning for both our non-executive availability to hold discussions with them at their request.
The balance of non-executive and Our 2013 AGM will be held on 16 May 2013 and you will find executive directors worked well and the non-executive directors the Notice at the end of this Annual Report.
I look forward to provided constructive challenge in open debate and assisted meeting shareholders who are able to attend our AGM and to in developing strategy and proposals put forward by the answering questions on any matters covered by the resolutions executive directors.
Board meetings were held in all of the to be put to the meeting.
operating regions during the year and included open discussion with management teams on their local market conditions, new sales outlets and progress with their objectives.
There were no changes in our corporate governance best practice during 2012 but we have taken steps to comply early, in many respects, with the version of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2012.
We conducted Malcolm Harris our first external independent evaluation of the Boards Chairman performance towards the end of 2011 and, during 2012, the Board reviewed an action plan and timetable at every Board meeting to ensure that we progressively addressed the areas identified for improvement, which were not fundamental in nature.
The actions we have taken are explained more fully on page 33 of this Annual Report.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 31 The Board benefits from a broad range of expertise and Introduction experience and has a strong blend of skills and qualities, The Company is committed to the highest standards of which allowed it to perform effectively and to a high level corporate governance as a contributor to the long term success during 2012.
There was no change to Board membership of the business.
It recognises that trust and engagement must during the year and up to the date of this report.
exist between companies and investors and that appropriate Three non-executive directors have been determined by the boardroom behaviours are an essential component of Board as being independent in character and judgement with governance best practice.
To support its high governance no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or standards and demonstrate that it takes them seriously, the could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
Company has put a corporate governance framework in place, which fits the context of the business.
This framework is In accordance with the Code, all the directors will be offering described in the governance policy guidelines in the annex to themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board this report on page 37. strongly supports all the individual directors re-elections, This report sets out the Companys compliance with the taking account of the balance of skills and expertise and the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial performance of the Board as a whole.
Reporting Council publicly available at www.
uk and All the directors have service agreements or contracts and the also describes how the governance framework is applied.
details of their terms are set out in the Remuneration Report The Code is supplemented by the Revised Turnbull Guidance on page 49.
A further one year term was approved by the to enable listed companies to comply with Listing Rule 9.8.
6 Board for John Warren on 16 January 2013.
The Board has reviewed the 2012 Code and taken steps to bring its approach into line early where it was thought In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and as permitted right to do so.
by the Companys Articles of Association, the Board has authorised and subsequently reviewed a number of potential The Board is pleased to report that the Company has, conflicts of interest regarding the directors.
The Board is throughout 2012, complied with and applied the provisions satisfied that powers to authorise potential conflicts are of the UK Corporate Governance Code, as set out below.
Information on share capital is provided on pages 58 and 59.
Board meetings Board membership The Board generally meets eight times a year and at each Throughout the year and up to the date of this report, the meeting receives regular reports covering, for example, Board comprised the Chairman, who is non-executive, three health and safety, customer satisfaction, current trading, independent non-executives and two executive directors.
At particular points in the year, the Biographical details are set out on page 30 and their dates of Board reviews strategy, budgets, forecasts, risks, financial appointment and attendance at Board meetings in 2012 are statements and succession planning.
The Board also shown below.
reviews other topics, such as the market environment, land acquisitions, land sales, investor and analyst feedback, and technical and regulatory developments.
Tenure in Attendance Name Date of appointment Current role current role at meetings 28 06 1996 Malcolm Harris Chairman 4.5 years 8 8 current role 03 07 2008 Alastair Lyons 01 10 2008 Deputy Chairman 4.5 years 8 8 Colin Holmes 01 12 2006 Non-executive 6 years 8 8 John Warren 01 03 2006 Non-executive 7 years 7 8 01 07 2002 David Ritchie Chief Executive 4.5 years 8 8 current role 03 07 2008 Jonathan Hill 23 08 2010 Finance Director 2.5 years 8 8 32 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Corporate governance report Governance The Board receives a comprehensive pack a week in advance of of open discussion and challenge, which facilitates debate each meeting plus any other information required to enable it to and decision making.
A common sense of purpose and strong discharge its duties.
Meetings are conducted in an atmosphere communication amongst its members was maintained of open discussion, which enables the non-executive directors to during 2012.
The broad range of expertise and experience challenge and test the strategy, policy and proposals put forward amongst the non-executive directors is a key strength and by the executive directors.
the diversity of backgrounds was thought reasonable.
Future succession planning will include wider consideration of In a typical year, half of all Board meetings are held in London Board diversity, whilst looking to maintain the strengths the and the balance in the regions, providing the opportunity to meet Board looks for.
and assess local management teams and receive presentations from them.
The Board also meets the Group Executive Committee Areas for focus during 2013 were identified and, whilst not the senior management below the Board at several points in fundamental in nature, they are the subject of an action plan and the year.
are expected to add value.
An overview is provided below.
The annual strategy day is valued by the Board as providing The Board undertook the first external independent performance the opportunity for an in-depth review of the immediate and evaluation towards the end of 2011.
This was conducted by longer term strategy for the Group, often supported by Independent Audit who have no other connection with the external contributions.
Company using a document review, followed by an interview process.
The Board determined the priority action items to The Chairman also holds meetings with the non-executive directors be addressed during 2012 and monitored progress at every without the executives present.
The Boards focus on longer term strategy was increased, broader scenario stress testing was carried out, Board performance evaluation discussions were held on succession planning, and competitor The Board undertook an internal formal evaluation of its own business models and alternatives were considered.
Risk reporting performance towards the end of 2012.
This started with a was improved and an increased focus on risk management was questionnaire designed to capture views on progress and outcomes monitored.
Presentations, discussion and site visits took place with since the 2011 external performance evaluation and to assess senior management below the Board in each region.
performance and ongoing effectiveness across key areas.
It was Individual director assessments were carried out by the Chairman followed by an interview process, conducted by the Chairman, towards the end of 2012, using a discussion and interview process with the directors and Company Secretary to explore and develop which covered overall understanding of the business, effectiveness the views expressed.
of contribution and challenge, communications, time commitments A report was then presented to the Board and discussed.
The outcomes showed that all The overall conclusion was positive and the Board continues to the directors are contributing effectively and are demonstrating operate effectively, with meetings being held in an atmosphere commitment to their roles.
Focus areas Objectives for 2013 Strategy Increase the Boards focus on specific strategic issues.
Further review of the risk appetite and improved risk reporting and review of past investment decisions.
Risk and risk management Continue to review the composition of the Board, including skills, experience and with regard to diversity and Succession planning further develop focus on non-executive succession planning.
Develop increased focus on executive management leadership development.
Business model Further improve the Boards knowledge of alternative business models and their relative performance.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 33 The performance evaluation of the Chairman was led The Board completed a performance evaluation of its by the Senior Independent Director, with input from all Committees during 2012 and it was concluded that they were other members of the Board.
Directors felt that the last contributing and functioning effectively and all were achieving year continued the positive development of the Boards their respective remits.
effectiveness under the Chairmans leadership in particular the planning of meetings, the management of Board agendas, Governance supporting the business and broad effective contribution by directors.
The Chairman The Board aims to meet governance best practice where it fits was considered to foster an environment of open debate our business and here some of the detail is set out.
and constructive challenge and to have maintained good professional relationships both with other members of the Amongst matters reserved for the Board are leadership of Board and relevant external stakeholders.
the Group, approval of strategy and budgets, oversight of operations and performance, capital structure, financial It was also confirmed that the Board continued to benefit reporting, internal controls and approval of major expenditure from having retained the Chairmans in depth knowledge and transactions.
of the sector gained during his executive career with the The Board has approved a written division of responsibilities Company, his continued participation in industry thinking, between the non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive and his interaction with principal shareholders on matters of and the role of the non-executive Deputy Chairman has corporate governance.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the effective working of the Board, taking a leading Board committees role in determining its composition and structure, and also The Board is supported by standing Audit, Nomination and ensuring that effective communications are maintained Remuneration Committees and their memberships, roles and with shareholders.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the activities are set out in separate reports: Audit Committee operational management of the Group, developing strategic on pages 54 and 55, Nomination Committee on pages 56 operating plans and presenting them to the Board and for the and 57, and Remuneration Committee on pages 39 to 52. implementation of strategy agreed by the Board.
The Deputy Each Committee reports to and has terms of reference Chairman supports the Chairman in ensuring that the Board is approved by the Board and the minutes of Committee effective and constructive relations are maintained, in addition meetings are circulated to and reviewed by the Board.
to acting as the Senior Independent Director, in which capacity The Audit Committee is chaired by John Warren, the he leads the annual performance evaluation of the Chairman Remuneration Committee is chaired by Colin Holmes and the and provides an additional point of contact for shareholders.
Nomination Committee is chaired by Malcolm Harris.
Board and committee structure The Groups Board and Committee structure, which maintains short and effective reporting lines, is as follows: Bovis Homes Group PLC Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Group Executive Committee Bovis Homes Ltd Board South West South East Central Regional Board Regional Board Regional Board 34 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Corporate governance report Governance The Companys Management Paper is subject to regular Board All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys AGM, review and contains appropriate controls, authorities and procedures which this year will be held on 16 May 2013.
The full Board, across the range of the Groups activities and includes the authorities including all Committee chairmen, attends and it values this and decision making delegated by the Board to management.
meeting as a means of communicating with private investors and encourages their participation.
All shareholders have the The advice and services of the Group Company Secretary are opportunity to exercise their right to vote and appoint proxies, available to the directors and all directors have access to the if they are unable to attend, and to facilitate this we provide Companys professional advisers and can seek independent an electronic voting facility.
Those attending the AGM have the professional advice at the Companys expense.
It is confirmed that opportunity to ask questions relevant to the business of the no such advice was sought during the year.
meeting and hear the views of other shareholders before voting.
Training is made available to directors when required and the After the meeting the results of voting on all resolutions are Chairman ensures that directors continually update and refresh published on the Groups website.
their knowledge and skills and familiarity with the Company, as appropriate to their role on the Board and on Board Risk management and internal control Committees.
During 2012 the directors received regulatory The Code states that a board is responsible for determining the and technical updates.
nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board has agreed that The Company has an insurance policy in place which insures this important principle should form part of its consideration of directors against certain liabilities, including legal costs.
strategy and all major decisions.
The Board also has responsibility for maintaining sound risk management and internal control Shareholder engagement systems and, whilst their monitoring and review forms part of the The Company has a comprehensive investor relations programme, work undertaken by the Audit Committee, the Board is ultimately which allows the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director to responsible for the management of risk.
Risk is a regular agenda regularly engage with our major shareholders.
In addition to oneitem, which allows all directors to review the quality of risk to-one meetings through the year, the Company holds a series of management processes, risk mitigation and the risk appetite.
presentations and meetings following the announcement of the final and half-yearly results.
These presentations are made publicly The Board has complied with Principle C. 2 of the Code by available so that all shareholders can access them on the Groups establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and website at www.
Towards the end of managing the risks that are considered significant by the Company, 2012, the Company held an analyst and investor presentation in accordance with the Revised Turnbull Guidance.
This process has focused on progress in delivering its strategy, during which the been in place for the period under review and up to the date of Company showcased site case studies presented by the Regional approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and includes Managing Directors, which were well received.
The Board reviews compliance with provision C. 2.1.
It is designed to manage rather feedback on investor relations meetings and presentations, than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable and not including the matters communicated and discussed and this has absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Monitoring is based principally on reviewing reports from Internal Audit and from management and covers all controls, including The Board also values other channels to obtain shareholders views financial, operational and compliance controls and risk and the Chairman, being responsible for ensuring that all directors management processes.
The Board operates a robust process of are aware of any issues or concerns that major shareholders may risk reporting and has clear procedures for identification and have, writes to them annually advising his availability to meet and monitoring of key risks.
hold discussions on any matter.
In addition, the Deputy Chairman also the Senior Independent Director is accessible to shareholders.
The Audit Committee reviews the system of internal control The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and the other non-executive and risk management systems annually and reports its findings directors regularly attend the annual analyst and investor to the Board.
It receives reports from the internal and external presentation, giving major shareholders the opportunity to put auditors and management which assess the effectiveness of their views and hold discussion with them.
internal control and risk management and make recommendations for improvements.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 35 Risk assessment The Group maintains a regular weekly and monthly financial reporting cycle, allowing management to assess the financial As the activities of the Group evolve, the nature of the risks on progress of the Group, and this is further supported by a which it focuses evolve.
A key part of the system of internal formal budget and forecast process which ensures that control is the maintenance of the risk analysis and matrix, there is a robust and relatively recent financial forecast in compiled using the risk universe as the basis of identification place at all times against which to assess performance.
and a process of evaluation that distils the impact of key risks, Together with this financial reporting, the Group requires mitigation measures and residual risk for Board review, leading its regional management teams to report key business to assessment of changing risk tolerance and, ultimately, the issues as part of a monthly regional reporting pack on a risk appetite.
During 2012, a full risk review and an interim standardised basis.
In setting its approach, the Board aims to ensure that the Company is neither prevented from taking Finally, there is a process of accounts preparation which opportunities nor exposed to unreasonable risk.
ensures that there is an audit trail between the output from Control framework the Groups financial reporting system and the Groups financial statements as they are prepared for reporting.
The Group maintains a control environment, which is regularly reviewed by the Board.
As new procedures and working Going concern practices are adopted, risk factors are reviewed and internal controls embedded into systems.
The principal elements of After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable the control environment include regular board meetings, the expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue regional structure, defined operating controls and authorisation in operation for the foreseeable future.
These enquiries consist limits, an Internal Audit function and a comprehensive financial of the production and review of detailed financial forecasts reporting system.
covering the period January 2013 to December 2015.
These forecasts take into account current market trends with There are a number of elements of the Groups internal control reasonable judgements and estimates applied to arrive at and risk management systems that are specifically related to future cash flow estimates.
As part of this review, the Group the Groups financial reporting process.
has analysed its forecast covenant compliance over this period linked to its banking facility, arriving at an assessment of Firstly, there is a well understood management structure which the headroom evident between the forecast covenant allows for clear accountability and an appropriately granular test outcomes and the outcomes necessary to achieve level of financial control.
This structure is underpinned by covenant compliance.
The Group entered into a new banking documented authority levels for business transactions laid out arrangement on 29 January 2013.
This arrangement provides a in the Groups Management Paper.
The process of financial committed revolving credit facility with a limit of 125 million reporting is further supported by process documents for both maturing in March 2017 and a three year term loan of internal management reporting and external Group reporting 25 million.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group had no which stipulates amongst other things reporting timetables and drawings under its then current 150 million revolving credit contents of key management reports.
facility, and held net cash of 19 million.
The Group maintains computer systems that record financial The Group regards the combination of existing cash in hand transactions and whose effectiveness is reviewed by the and this new banking arrangement as adequate in terms Internal Audit function on a regular basis.
Any findings arising of flexibility and liquidity for its needs.
More details on the from these exercises are reported to the Audit Committee.
Groups approach to financial risk management are laid out in note 21.
For these reasons, the Group continues to adopt the Control over cash expenditure which lies at the heart of any going concern basis in preparing its accounts.
financial reporting process is key.
The Group maintains tight control in this area through a centralised Group payment function, regularly maintained authorisation documents and segregation of authorisation accountability.
36 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Corporate governance report Governance Annex to corporate governance report Under the Articles of Association, all directors are subject to retirement Corporate governance policy guidelines by rotation at least once in every three years at the Annual General These guidelines have been adopted by the Board and provide Meeting.
New directors appointed by the Board must be re-appointed by guidance on how corporate governance principles are applied by shareholders at the following Annual General Meeting.
7 Director training On appointment, new directors are given a comprehensive induction 1 Board membership and balance to the Groups business activities, strategy and methods of operating, The composition of the Board is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure policies, procedures and management structure.
As necessary, that it remains appropriate for successfully directing the business directors receive training to complement their roles on the Board activities of the Group.
Consideration is given to boardroom diversity and Board Committees.
and the mix of experience, skills, ability and vision of executive and non-executive directors by the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination 8 Director remuneration Committee and the Board give regular consideration to planning for The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the Board, the succession to Board and senior management positions, ensuring that policy for executive remuneration and remuneration for the Chairman, appropriate management development measures are in place.
The Board each of the executive directors and senior management in accordance currently comprises the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman also the Senior with its terms of reference.
The Remuneration Committee comprises Independent Director, two further independent non-executive directors the independent non-executive directors and meets as required.
External remuneration advice appropriate to the size and position of the Company is sought when required.
Non-executive director 2 Board selection remuneration, excluding that of the Chairman, is determined by the Board without their participation.
The Board receives recommendations on the appointment of directors from the Nomination Committee, following an evaluation of the balance 9 Financial information and internal control of knowledge, skills, experience and diversity available on the Board.
The review of submissions for Board approval in respect of the Groups This Board committee comprises the independent non-executive annual report and accounts, half-yearly financial report, preliminary directors, the Chairman and the Chief Executive and meets as required statement, interim management statements and other public financial to consider proposed changes to Board membership.
information is the responsibility of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews the Groups system of internal control and oversees 3 Non-executive director independence compliance therewith.
The Audit Committee comprises the independent The non-executive directors are independent in character and judgement non-executive directors.
and free from any business or other relationship which could affect or appear to affect the exercise of their independent judgement on matters 10 Supply of information under consideration by the Board.
The receipt of fair remuneration and Senior management are responsible for providing the Board with being a shareholder is not considered to prejudice independence or appropriate, complete and timely information relevant to the Boards prevent a non-executive director from acting independently.
discharge of its responsibilities, the monitoring of the performance of business activities, including significant variances, and progress with the 4 Chairman and Chief Executive implementation of strategies.
Directors have reasonable access to senior The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a management to enable them to make further enquiries as they consider clear division of responsibilities between the two roles which has been in their judgement appropriate.
set out in writing and approved by the Board.
It is normal practice for the 11 Board procedures and authorities role of Chairman to be a non-executive position.
The role of the Deputy Chairman has also been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
The Chairman and Chief Executive determine the agenda for each Board meeting and papers are circulated in advance so that matters 5 Number of directors can be properly considered by the directors.
A schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision is in place and detailed authorities An appropriate balance between executive and non-executive and associated procedures have been established for individual directors directors is maintained and the size of the Board is set as necessary to in the performance of their duties.
The Board undertakes annual achieve this.
The number of non-executive directors is decided so as to performance evaluations and a formal external performance evaluation provide the diversity of skills, ability, vision and experience necessary every third year.
for a sound independent contribution to the Board and the successful management of the Groups business.
By way of guidance, at least half 12 Relations with shareholders the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent The Board as a whole accepts responsibility for ensuring that a non-executive directors.
satisfactory dialogue is maintained with shareholders.
The aim is to ensure that this dialogue is based on a mutual understanding of 6 Length of appointment objectives.
Investors are encouraged to attend the Annual General Executive directors are employed on service contracts with notice Meeting and to vote and participate.
periods which do not exceed one year.
Non-executive directors service agreements set the length of their appointments at periods of up to 13 Corporate policies three years and their notice periods up to twelve months.
Their total The Board ensures that corporate policies and procedures on ethical length of appointment would not normally exceed nine years.
and corporate social responsibility matters, including sustainability, The renewal of service agreements after two three year terms is subject health and safety and the environment are maintained, monitored and to rigorous review and based on annual re-appointment thereafter.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 37 Crown Park Chester, Cheshire 38 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Governance
