The leadership of the Company is kept under review and Introduction the Committee leads the process for Board appointments, The Nomination Committee seeks to ensure that the right which are conducted on merit, against objective criteria balance of experience and qualities are in place on the including diversity, using the services of an appropriate Board and its Committees to successfully deliver the external search consultant.
The Committee makes Companys strategy.
It reviews the structure, composition recommendations to the Board, including the re-appointment and balance of skills on the Board, is responsible for identifying of non-executive directors, the proposed re-election of and nominating candidates for Board appointment and assists directors at the AGM, and membership of the Audit and the Board in its oversight of succession planning for both Remuneration Committees.
It also reviews the results of the directors and senior executives.
Board performance evaluation that relate to the composition of the Board.
External legal or other independent professional Committee membership and meetings advice can be obtained at the Companys expense and this All members of the Committee are independent non-executive facility was not utilised during the year.
directors, with the exception of the Chairman of the Company and the Chief Executive.
Malcolm Harris chairs the Committee The Committees terms of reference are available on the and is supported by Alastair Lyons, Colin Holmes, John Warren Companys website www.
co. uk investorand David Ritchie.
There were no changes to Committee centre corporate-governance.
Main activities during the year Attendance Name Date of appointment Role at meetings During the year, the Committee reviewed the structure, size Malcolm Harris 18 12 1998 Chairman 4 4 and composition of the Board and concluded that the present current role - 03 07 2008 Board balance and composition remained appropriate, but would be kept under review.
Succession planning for the nonAlastair Lyons 01 10 2008 Member 4 4 executive directors was considered looking forward to 2015, Colin Holmes 01 12 2006 Member 4 4 including the phasing of new appointments to allow a period of overlap before experienced incumbents depart.
Planning for John Warren 01 03 2006 Member 4 4 executive director and senior management succession was David Ritchie 03 07 2008 Member 4 4 also discussed.
The Committee recommended that all the directors stand The Committee met four times in 2012 and an overview for re-election at the 2012 AGM in accordance with the UK of the main activities is provided below.
Papers were Corporate Governance Code, having considered the matter received sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper on a case by case basis.
The Nomination Committee report consideration of matters for discussion.
The Committee is was approved for inclusion in the 2011 Annual Report and supported by Martin Palmer Group Company Secretary, the Commitees terms of reference were reviewed without who acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee also reviewed the results of the 2011 external Board performance evaluation relating to Board Responsibilities and terms of reference composition and to ensure all directors have sufficient time to The Committees main responsibilities are to regularly devote to their duties.
review the structure, size and composition of the Board including skills, knowledge, experience and diversity and A policy on the renewal of non-executive directors service make recommendations to the Board on any changes needed.
contracts is in place so that renewal following the conclusion It gives full consideration to succession planning for directors of a second three year term is recommended to the Board and senior executives, taking into account the challenges and based on annual re-appointment, subject to satisfactory opportunities facing the Company and the skills and expertise performance and there being no requirement to re-balance needed in the future.
Service contracts for John Warren and Colin Holmes were recommended to the Board for renewal for further one year terms, following consideration of their respective contributions, performance and commitment to their roles.
56 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Nomination Committee report Governance The principle of boardroom diversity is strongly supported and the Committee reviewed the diversity policy, published in September 2011, without amendment.
The policy sets out that appointments to the Board will always be based on merit so that the Board has the right individuals in place and that diversity is seen as an important consideration as part of the objective criteria used to assess candidates to achieve a balanced board.
The Committee will continue to consider boardroom diversity in future succession planning.
Performance evaluation The Committee completed a performance evaluation towards the end of 2012 and a report was presented to the Committee and discussed.
The Committee was found to be effective and it was concluded that it had appropriate terms of reference and had fulfilled its remit in 2012.
Malcolm Harris Chairman of the Nomination Committee 22 February 2013 Bovis Homes Group PLC | 57
