26 | GOVERNANCE | Directors Report on Corporate Governance The Group is committed to, and strives for, best practice in adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the Groups foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going shareholders for good corporate governance.
This statement concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial describes how the principles of corporate governance set out in Statements.
section one of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued in 2010 The Board the Code have been applied.
The Board of Directors currently comprises the Executive Chairman, Statement of compliance two further Executive Directors and seven Non-executive Directors, The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the year six of whom the Board has identified as Independent Directors.
Ian ended 31 December 2012 and up to the date hereof, applied the Brindle, a representative of Sherborne, the Companys largest principles and met the requirements of the Code with the following shareholder, does not meet the criteria of independence as set out exceptions: in the accepted guidance.
As highlighted in last years Annual Report, Edward Bramson The biographies of the Directors appear on page 20.
These served as the Companys Executive Chairman throughout 2012 demonstrate a range of experience, skills and personal standing to oversee implementation of the strategic review announced in sufficient to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, October 2011 and May 2012.
The Board have previously performance, resources and standards of conduct which are vital to acknowledged that while the position of Executive Chairman the success of the Group.
All Directors have access to the advice does not meet the best practice guidance set out in the Code and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Provision A.
2.1, they believe it to be appropriate given the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that strategic review work being performed by Mr Bramson.
In applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Board meets December 2012 the Board announced that Edward Bramson formally on a regular basis and is responsible for approving the would revert to Non-executive Chairman of the Company on Groups objectives and policies.
The Board focuses mainly on announcement of the year-end results in March 2013. strategy, investment and financial performance, the Groups control environment and executive management and Board succession.
To Whilst Mr Bedell-Pearce, the Companys Senior Independent enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive Director, does not, by virtue of his tenure, strictly meet all of the appropriate and timely information ensuring that they are properly independence tests set out in Code provision B.
1.1, the Board briefed on issues for consideration in advance of meetings.
In consider that he continues to display all the characteristics expected addition, all Directors have access to senior management and can of an independent Non-executive Director.
The Board believe that Mr request, either during meetings or at other appropriate times, further Bedell-Pearces independence is demonstrated through his actions explanation or written papers on matters as they see fit.
and judgements during Board discussions and debates.
The Board has a detailed list of matters specifically reserved to it The Chairmen of the Audit & Compliance, Risk, Remuneration and the Board Reserved List.
This is contained in The Directors Nomination committees will be available to answer questions at this Guide, a training and reference document issued to all Directors on years Annual General Meeting to be held on Friday, 10 May 2013. appointment and updated as appropriate.
The Board Reserved List is reviewed annually and clearly sets out what authority is delegated Going concern from the Board to Board Committees and to management.
This The Code requires Directors to report, under the terms set out in the ensures that matters of significance are overseen and reviewed by relevant guidelines to the Code, on the appropriateness of adopting the Board prior to implementation.
Examples of matters reserved for the going concern basis in preparing Financial Statements.
the Board as set out in the Board Reserved List are the approval of: The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to the Group strategy: the annual budget: the composition and terms affect its future development, performance and position are set out of reference of any of the Board Committees: the high-level in the Business Review on pages 2 to 19.
The financial position of organisational structure: and the review of the effectiveness of the the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Groups system of internal control.
Business Review on pages 15 to 17.
In addition, note 35 to the The composition of the Board is reviewed annually.
Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management The Board committees objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: The Board has established a number of standing committees to and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
facilitate the smooth transaction of business within the Group.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with longThe terms of reference of each Board Committee, outlining its term contracts with a number of clients across different geographic authority and duties, are reviewed and approved annually by the areas and industries.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a Board, published on the Companys website and are available on reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have written request from the Company Secretary.
The terms of ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 27 reference of each of the Board Committees provide the authority to A Statement of the Nomination Committee take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Purpose and Terms of Reference Companys expense.
The Committee leads the process, and makes recommendations to Statement of diversity policy the Board, for all new Board appointments and the appointment of Non-executive Directors to any Board Committee.
It is responsible The Group recognises the value of a diverse workforce and aims to for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on attract and retain the best people from the widest pool of talent, the Board and ensuring that a formal, rigorous and transparent experience and perspectives drawn from all sections of society.
believe that differences in gender, background, perspective, expertise and culture are an asset to the Company.
Membership The diversity of the Board is intended to be improved when new The Committee is chaired by Edward Bramson.
The Committee appointments are made as a result of Director rotation.
As a result, comprises the Executive Chairman and two independent the Companys succession planning process has been revised to Non-executive Directors.
include the Companys commitment to improved diversity including gender diversity.
Members of the Nomination Committee: Consistent with the Boards intention to improve diversity through Edward Bramson, Keith Bedell-Pearce and Kieran Poynter.
Director rotation, we anticipate that there will be at least one female Director appointed to the Board during 2013.
Activities and work of the Committee During 2012, the Committee, with the assistance of external search consultants, led the process for the selection of a Chief Executive Officer and on 4 December 2012 the Board approved the appointment of Richard Wilson.
In early 2013 external search consultants were engaged by the Committee to conduct a search for an additional independent Non-executive Director.
As an integral part of its succession planning, the Committee reviews the balance and composition of the Board including the number of Directors serving thereon.
On an annual basis the Committee reviews the terms and conditions of appointment of Non-executive Directors set out in the standard letter of appointment to ensure that they continue to meet the requirements of the Code.
This standard letter of appointment can be inspected during normal working hours at the Companys registered office by contacting the Company Secretary.
The Committee considers, on an annual basis, the time required of Non-executive Directors for the fulfilment of their duties and assesses the contribution of the Directors, their independence and their suitability for re-election prior to an appropriate resolution being put to shareholders.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and to re-election at least every three years.
However, in line with the Code, all of the Directors are subject to annual re-election by Shareholders.
For the Board Edward Bramson Chairman, Nomination Committee 25 March 2013 28 | GOVERNANCE | Directors Report on Corporate Governance B Statement of the Audit and Compliance Committee C Statement of the Remuneration Committee Purpose and Terms of Reference Purpose and Terms of Reference The Committee vouchsafes the processes and controls surrounding Full details of the purpose, terms of reference, activities and work of the production of the Groups Financial Statements and oversees, the Committee are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
monitors and evaluates the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit and compliance departments.
Membership The Chairman of the Committee is Keith Bedell-Pearce.
The Membership Committee comprises solely independent Non-executive Directors.
The Committee is chaired by Kieran Poynter.
The Committee comprises solely independent Non-executive Directors.
Members of the Remuneration Committee: Keith Bedell-Pearce, Jeff Medlock, Derham ONeill, Kieran Poynter The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Committee and Keith Jones appointed 12 March 2012. has recent and relevant financial experience, a position that should continue throughout 2013.
Attendees at the Remuneration Committee Edward Bramson, the Companys Executive Chairman, and Alain Members of the Audit & Compliance Committee: Grisay, the Companys former Chief Executive Officer, attended Kieran Poynter, Keith Bedell-Pearce Jeff Medlock and certain meetings of the Committee in 2012.
Peter Cole, the Group Derham ONeill.
Head of Human Resources, and Ian Brindle also attended all Committee meetings in 2012.
Activities and work of the Committee The Committee normally discharges its responsibilities, as allocated Activities and work of the Committee by its terms of reference, within a schedule of four meetings.
Two The Board is ultimately accountable for the Groups remuneration meetings are held early in the year, one to deal with matters of policy but delegates responsibility to the Remuneration Committee.
governance for example, compliance with the Code, the Financial The Remuneration Committee has resolved the following key issues Services and Markets Act, monitoring and reviewing the Internal Audit during the year: & Compliance department and monitoring and reviewing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external audit Revised the remuneration policy and ensured that it meets the process and the other to consider the integrity of the year-end requirements of the FSA Remuneration Code to the extent Financial Statements and any formal announcements relating to the applicable to the Company : Companys and the Groups financial performance, including any Approved the remuneration of the Executive Directors: significant financial reporting judgements contained therein.
A similar process is adopted at the interim reporting stage, with a final meeting Reviewed and approved the remuneration of the Group taking place late in the year to consider relevant year-end matters.
On Management and FSA Code staff: an annual basis the Committee considers and makes a Approved the performance targets in relation to long-term recommendation to the Board as to the appointment, re-appointment awards: or removal of the external auditors and approves their remuneration and terms of engagement.
Other meetings of the Committee are Overseen the Companys remuneration policy as it applies to called at the request of the Chairman to consider ad hoc control executives, senior management and employees, including the issues that may emerge during the year as well as other matters that discretionary cash bonus scheme and awards under the the Board has asked the Committee to consider or investigate.
long-term incentive schemes: For the Board Verified that the remuneration policy does not encourage excessive risk beyond that of the appetite of the Company: Kieran Poynter Completed the annual review of the Committee Terms of Chairman, Audit & Compliance Committee Reference.
25 March 2013 For the Board Keith Bedell-Pearce Chairman, Remuneration Committee 25 March 2013 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 29 D Statement of the Risk Committee Attendance at meetings The following table identifies the number of Board and formal Purpose and Terms of Reference committee meetings held in 2012 and the attendance record of the The Committee was established in March 2012 to provide the Board individual Directors as members of committees of the Board.
In with assurance that the processes and controls exist to facilitate addition to the scheduled meetings detailed below a number of ad reporting on the Groups risk management activities, including those hoc Directors meetings, sub-committees of the Board and Board related to Social, Environmental and Ethical matters, internal control Committees were held.
and adherence to policies and procedures.
The Committee is also Nonexecutive responsible for reviewing and recommending to the Board for Director approval, the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment meetings without Audit & Process ICAAP and for ensuring the Company fulfils its regulatory management Compliance Risk Remuneration Nomination Board present Committee Committee Committee Committee obligations under the Capital Requirements Directive.
Number of meetings held Membership 2012 2011 7 7 2 2 4 5 3 5 6 2 2 The Committee is chaired by Keith Percy.
The Committee comprises Edward Bramson 7 2 2 solely independent Non-executive Directors.
Keith Bedell-Pearce 7 2 4 5 2 Ian Brindle 7 2 Members of the Risk Committee: 1 Alain Grisay 2 Keith Percy, Kieran Poynter, Jeff Medlock and Keith Jones.
Keith Jones 7 2 2 2 David Logan 7 Activities and work of the Committee Jeff Medlock 5 2 3 2 5 The Committee normally discharges its responsibilities, as allocated Derham ONeill 6 2 4 5 by its terms of reference, within a schedule of four meetings a year.
Keith Percy 5 2 3 Quarterly meetings of the Committee are held to assess detailed risk Kieran Poynter 6 2 4 3 5 2 reports and review any relevant updates to the Groups ICAAP 2 Richard Wilson 1 report.
The Committee also reviews and monitors the adequacy and 1 Retired from the Board in May 2012 effectiveness of the process for the identification, assessment, 2 Appointed to the Board in December 2012 mitigation, monitoring and management of all risks with particular emphasis on the key risks faced by the Group and performs reviews Board Roles of any special investigation reports relating to fraud or major Chairman breakdowns in internal controls or major errors and omissions.
The Chairman of the Company is Edward Bramson.
As Chairman, For the Board Mr Bramson is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring the effective running and management of the Board.
The role profile Keith Percy of the Chairman includes the following specific responsibilities: Chairman, Risk Committee Ensuring that the Board agenda for each meeting takes account 25 March 2013 of the issues and concerns of each Board member and that members of the Board receive accurate, timely and clear information on the Company and related matters to enable them to monitor the Groups performance and take sound decisions: Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and ensuring that the Board develops an understanding of the views of major investors: Ensuring that, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, a formal induction and development process, including any relevant internal and external training, exists for all Directors and the Board as a whole with a view to enhancing the Boards effectiveness: and Ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-executive Directors and an effective contribution from all Directors.
30 | GOVERNANCE | Directors Report on Corporate Governance The performance of the Chairman is reviewed annually by the NonDirectors conflicts of interest executive Directors in a meeting chaired by the Senior Independent From 1 October 2008, Directors have a statutory duty to avoid a Director.
situation in which they have or can have an interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has been Chief Executive authorised in accordance with the Articles of Association by the The Chief Executive of the Company is Richard Wilson.
Executive, Mr Wilson is responsible for overseeing the implementation of the strategy as set by the Board, providing strategic vision and executive leadership to all the Groups business Directors and Directors re-election activities and ensuring the effective running of the business and the The Directors who served at any time during the year ended Group Management.
31 December 2012 are as shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 37.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment can Non-executive Directors be found on page 36.
Messrs Bedell-Pearce, Brindle, Jones, Medlock, ONeill, Percy and Poynter are the Companys Non-executive Directors.
As NonMr Wilson joined the Board during the year as an Executive Director executive Directors they are responsible for: promoting and, as such, will retire at the Annual General Meeting and being entrepreneurial leadership and the highest standards of governance eligible will offer himself for election.
With the exception of within a framework of prudent and effective controls: constructively Messrs Brindle and Medlock, who have expressed their intention to challenging and helping develop strategic proposals: ensuring that retire on conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, all other the Group has in place the necessary resources to meet its strategic Directors will, in accordance with the Code, offer themselves for reobjectives: reviewing management performance: determining election at the Annual General Meeting.
appropriate levels of Executive Director Remuneration In accordance with the requirements of the Code, during 2012, the Remuneration Committee members, taking a prime role in Nomination Committee gave more detailed consideration to the appointing, and where necessary removing, Executive Directors: proposed re-election of Mr Bedell-Pearce, given that he has served setting the Companys values and standards to ensure its more than six years as a Director.
obligations to its stakeholders are understood and met: and reviewing communication with shareholders.
The Nomination Committee has reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board, and has confirmed that all Directors Board evaluation and professional development submitting themselves for election and re-election demonstrate the A comprehensive and rigorous evaluation of the performance of the commitment and devote sufficient time to perform their duties as Board, its principal Committees and all Directors was conducted in members of the Board and should be elected or re-elected.
Each Director was interviewed by the Details of the Directors offering themselves for election or re-election Executive Chairman to extract their views on the perceived can be found on page 20. operation and effectiveness of the Board and the Board Committees.
The results of this process were presented to the Board succession planning Board in March 2013.
All recommendations made as a result of this The Nomination Committee has a succession plan for the Boards exercise were accepted by the Board and the Board have Non-executive Directors.
The plan was shaped by a skills profile, committed to addressing all matters raised during 2013. projected and expected normal retirements, and the Companys The Board also set themselves objectives early in 2012 and commitment to corporate governance best practice.
The plan is assessed their performance against these objectives during the approved annually by the Board.
An agreed set of Board objectives for 2013 was approved by the Board in March 2013.
Relations with shareholders The Company has a full and formal induction process for all new The Board as a whole acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring appointments to the Board.
The Chairman, in consultation with the satisfactory dialogue with shareholders and that communications Company Secretary and individual Directors, is responsible for are given high priority.
The Company welcomes the views of assessing the professional development needs of each Director.
The shareholders and, where practicable, enters into dialogue with induction process and ongoing professional development is institutional shareholders based on the need for mutual facilitated by the Company Secretary who, in consultation with the understanding of objectives.
The Companys Executive Chairman, individual Director, identifies the most appropriate method of Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer regularly meet the largest ensuring professional development.
The Company Secretary also institutional shareholders and Company analysts following the assists in organising attendance at internal or external courses to announcement of the year-end and interim results: the Senior develop familiarity with the Companys business operations.
Independent Director and all other Non-executive Directors have the opportunity to attend these meetings.
The Annual General Meeting ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 31 of the Company provides a forum, both formal and informal, for The Group has an appropriate organisational structure for planning, investors to meet and discuss issues with Directors and senior executing, controlling and monitoring business operations in order management of the Company.
The structure is designed to provide clear responsibilities and a control framework for key areas of the At its Annual General Meeting, the Company complies with the Groups business.
provision of the Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the separation of resolutions and the attendance of the Committee Operational responsibility rests with the Executive Chairman and Chairmen.
The results of the votes cast at the Annual General Chief Executive and is devolved through a documented executive Meeting are posted on the Companys website.
structure with clearly delegated and appropriate levels of authority.
Members of Group Management are, therefore, accountable for the Following the announcement of the second phase of the Companys operation of the systems of internal controls within the Strategic Review, the Companys Executive Chairman and Chief Groups business.
Financial Officer met with a number of the Companys largest shareholders.
The feedback from these meetings was circulated to Business risks the Board.
Unattributable feedback from a number of the The identification of major business risks is carried out by the Board Companys shareholders, facilitated by the Companys brokers, is in conjunction with management and procedures to control these also presented to the Board following managements year-end risks, where possible, are reviewed and agreed.
Quarterly reports are prepared by each area of the business, Electronic communications covering all key locations.
These quarterly reports include issues of Copies of the 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements, the material business risk which are discussed in detail by the Group Notice of Annual General Meeting, other corporate publications, Management which includes both Executive Directors.
All significant press releases and announcements are available on the Companys items identified are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
Shareholders are encouraged to take advantage of the The key risks facing the Group at the year end and the mitigating provisions allowing the Company to communicate electronically.
actions assigned to these risks are detailed in the Business Review on pages 10 and 11.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of Monitoring and corrective action internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a regular basis.
The Company has a formal compliance function which, in addition Managements role is to implement and operate the Board policies to providing regulatory advice to the business, has undertaken on risk and risk management.
The system of internal control is compliance monitoring and performed a number of regulatory designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to inspections in 2012.
A separate Internal Audit department achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and conducted regular monitoring of various business areas in line with a not absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
plan agreed annually with the Audit & Compliance Committee.
Any The Company, as required by the FSA Listing Rules, complied with issues of significance are brought to the attention of the Board by the Code provisions on internal control for the year ended the Internal Audit, Risk & Compliance departments and through the 31 December 2012. regular reporting process.
Planned corrective actions are independently monitored for timely completion and reviewed by the The procedures that the Directors have established are designed to Audit & Compliance Committee.
provide effective control within the Group and accord with the Internal Control Guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council The Audit & Compliance Committee and the Risk Committee FRC.
Such procedures have been in place throughout the year and reviews the effectiveness of the operation of the Risk, Compliance up to 25 March 2013, the date of approval of the Annual Report and and Internal Audit departments at least twice each year.
A high-level overview of the ongoing process Independence of the auditor for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks including The Board has in place rigorous systems for ensuring the social, environmental and ethical issues is detailed below.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board to ensure it complies with independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Groups auditor and has satisfied itself that during the year no aspect of its work was the FRCs Guidance.
In maintaining a clear perception of Control environment independence and balancing that with the best interests of the The Group is committed to the highest standards of business Group, the Board has a clear policy that it follows when considering conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all areas of the award of non-audit work to the Groups auditor.
The Group has in place appropriate procedures for the applied during 2012 is detailed below.
reporting and resolution of activities that do not meet the required standards of business conduct.
32 | GOVERNANCE | Directors Report on Corporate Governance The Company does not impose an automatic ban on the Groups auditor undertaking non-audit work.
The Groups aim is always to have any non-audit work involving accountancy firms carried out in a manner that affords value for money while taking into account relevant ethical guidance.
The firm must not be in a position of conflict in respect of the work in question and must have the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best interests of the Group.
The auditor of the Company is permitted to perform non-audit work in areas where, in the opinion of the Audit & Compliance Committee, it is appropriate for it to do so and there are no actual or perceived independence issues.
The Chairman of the Audit & Compliance Committee is authorised to approve the use of the auditor for non-audit work provided that the cost does not exceed 50,000 and the aggregate value does not exceed the audit fee for the financial year in question.
In other circumstances, the approval of the Audit & Compliance Committee is required.
The performance, independence, competence and cost of the auditor are reviewed annually by the Audit & Compliance Committee.
When the Committee considers it appropriate, the provision of audit services will be formally market-tested through a tender process involving those audit firms judged competent to meet the needs of the Group.
The frequency of this market-testing will depend on the views of the Audit & Compliance Committee, on the needs of the Group and on prevailing leading practice.
It is expected that in future this will take place at least once in any ten-year period.
During the year a number of accountancy firms, all of whom are independent of KPMG, the external auditor, provided non-audit related services to the Group.
Details of fees paid to these firms during 2012 are disclosed in note 4 c on page 58 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Future developments The Board believes that the controls in place during 2012 have been appropriate to the needs of the Group.
Nevertheless, it is committed to the highest standards of governance and business conduct and will ensure that those controls continue to develop in line with the requirements of the FSA and leading practice.
By order of the Board, W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA Secretary 80 George Street Edinburgh EH2 3BU 25 March 2013
