Corporate Governance Statement The Company is committed to high standards of corporate THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put in place a framework for corporate governance which it believes is appropriate for an THE BOARD investment company.
This Corporate Governance Statement forms The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the part of the Directors Report.
Companys affairs and for promoting the long-term success of the Company.
All matters which are not delegated to the Companys ASSOCIATION OF INVESTMENT COMPANIES CODE Managers under the Management and Secretarial Services The Board has considered the principles and recommendations Agreements are reserved for the Boards decision.
Matters of the AICs Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code, reserved for the Board include, amongst other things, decisions by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide the on strategy, management, structure, capital, share issues, share AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained in the AIC Guide, repurchases, gearing, financial reporting, risk management, addresses all of the principles set out in Section 1 of the UK investment performance, share price discount, corporate Corporate Governance Code UK Code as well as setting out governance, the appointment of the Company Secretary and additional principles and recommendations on issues that are Board appointments.
The Companys investment policy is detailed of specific relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that on page 18. reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code taking into account of the AIC Guide, will be useful to The Board currently consists of six Directors, five of whom are shareholders.
The AIC Code and AIC Guide may be found on the independent of the Managers.
Other than as previously disclosed AICs website www.
co. uk in relation to Andrew Wells, the Directors are considered to be free from any relationship which could materially interfere with The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders the exercise of their independent judgement and all Directors are for good governance and considers that the Company has able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code, the responsibilities fully and effectively.
relevant provisions of the UK Code and associated disclosure requirements of the Listing Rules except as set out below.
The UK All Directors, with the exception of Andrew Wells, form the Code includes provisions relating to: membership of the Audit Committee and the Management Engagement Committee.
All the Directors are members of the the role of the chief executive Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Investment executive directors remuneration Committee.
the need for an internal audit function The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide and in the preamble discharge its duties effectively and the table below gives the to the UK Code, the Board considers that these provisions are attendance record for the meetings held during the year.
not relevant to the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported in respect of these provisions.
Management Regular Nomination Audit Engagement Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings John Owen 4 4 1 1 2 2 1 1 Nicholas Bull 4 4 1 1 2 2 1 1 David Causer 4 4 1 1 2 2 1 1 Peter Pleydell-Bouverie 4 4 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 Elisabeth Scott 2 2 0 0 1 1 0 0 2 Andrew Wells 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 Gary Shaughnessy 4 4 1 1 0 0 0 0 Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the period.
Regular Board meetings exclude ad hoc meetings for formal approvals.
1 Appointed on 1 November 2011 2 Appointed on 21 May 2012 3 Resigned on 26 March 2012 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 26 Corporate Governance Statement SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR TRAINING The Board appointed Nicholas Bull as Senior Independent Upon appointment, each Director is provided with all relevant Director on 26 October 2010.
The Senior Independent Director information regarding the Company and receives training fulfils the role as a sounding board for the Chairman and as on the investment operations and administration functions of intermediary for other non-executive Directors where necessary.
the Company, together with a summary of their duties and The Senior Independent Director also chairs the Nomination and responsibilities.
In addition, a new Director will receive an Remuneration Committee.
induction, spending time with representatives of the Manager whereby he or she will become familiar with the various BOARD COMPOSITION processes which the Managers consider necessary for the The Board consists of Directors who, between them, have good performance of his or her duties and responsibilities to the knowledge and wide experience of business in Asia and of Company.
The Companys policy is to encourage Directors to investment companies.
The Directors believe that the Board has keep up to date and attend training courses on matters which an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, are directly relevant to their involvement with the Company and knowledge of the Company and length of service to discharge the Chairman reviews and agrees development and training its duties and provide effective strategic leadership and proper needs with each Director and the Senior Independent Director governance of the Company.
will do likewise for the Chairman.
The Directors also receive regular briefings from, amongst others, the AIC, the Companys Biographical details of all Directors including their relevant Auditor and the Company Secretary regarding any proposed directorships are given on page 17 of this report.
developments or changes in law or regulations that affect the Company and or the Directors.
The Board ensures that it conducts its business at all times with only the interests of the shareholders in mind and PERFORMANCE EVALUATION independently of any other associations.
It meets at least A formal annual process for the evaluation of the Board, its four times a year, with the Portfolio Manager in attendance, Committees and its Directors is in place and undertaken at the including an annual meeting in China at which the Board has the Board meetings ahead of the Annual General Meeting s. This opportunity to meet the investment team.
takes the form of written questionnaires and, if appropriate, interviews.
The review of the performance of the Chairman is Between these meetings there is regular contact with the led by the Senior Independent Director on an annual basis.
Other meetings are arranged as necessary.
Additionally, Board Committees and sub-groups meet to pursue The Company Secretary and Portfolio Manager will also matters referred to them from the Board and the Chairman is in participate in these processes to provide all-round feedback contact with the other Directors regularly without representatives to the Board.
The results of these evaluations will be issued of the Managers being present.
to and discussed by the Board.
The process is considered to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving the BOARD BALANCE functioning and performance of the Board and action is taken The Board aims to ensure that the Board and its Committees have on the basis of the results.
a balance of skills, experience, length of service and knowledge of the Company.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee carries ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION out its candidate search from the widest possible pool of talent As a constituent member of the FTSE 250 Index, the Directors of against a set of objective criteria on the basis of merit, with due the Company are subject to election and then annual re-election regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
by the shareholders, subject to recommendation to the Board by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee the Committee Further details on how the Nomination and Remuneration recommending to the Board that all Directors should seek Committee implement the Boards policy on diversity, including election or re-election for the forthcoming year.
As part of their gender can be found on page 29. deliberations, the Committee conducts annual evaluations of each Director.
CHANGES TO THE BOARD All appointments to the Board and replacements of Directors The Committee has a policy of reviewing the tenure of each take place in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Director on a three year cycle and has agreed that an Companys Articles of Association.
The Company complies with independent Director may serve for more than nine years, the requirements of the AIC Code in respect of appointments so long as that Director is considered by the Committee to to the Board.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is continue to be independent.
responsible for identifying possible candidates for consideration by the Board.
Whilst the Independent Directors take the lead The Committee considers that a Chairman will not be considered in the appointment of new Directors, any proposal for a new independent after nine years in that role but may remain Director will be discussed and approved by the entire Board.
thereafter, a Director, subject to annual re-election.
External consultants may also be used to identify potential candidates.
Details of the changes to the Board which have taken place during the year and since the year end are outlined in the Directors Report on page 21.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 27 Corporate Governance Statement The names of Directors submitted for election or re-election The Chairman of the Board is a member of the Committee as the are accompanied by sufficient biographical details to enable Board believes that all the current independent Directors should shareholders to make an informed decision.
The terms and letters be members of the Audit Committee.
of appointment of Directors are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and will be available prior to The Audit Committee discharges its responsibilities in a number of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
ways, including as set out below: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Reviewing the Companys draft annual and interim Financial Levels of remuneration are competitive and sufficient to Statements prior to Board approval and reviewing the scope attract and retain the quality of Directors needed to manage and results of the audit including the external Auditors report the Company successfully.
The Company Secretary provides on the annual financial statements: information on comparative levels of Directors fees to the Reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting Board in advance of each review.
The level of Directors fees is policies: determined by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee Reviewing and approving the audit fee: within the limit governed by the Articles of Association.
Directors Reviewing the external Auditors terms of engagement: fees are disclosed fully in each Annual Report see the Directors Considering the appointment, reappointment or removal of the Remuneration Report on page 31.
Shareholdings in the Company Auditor as appropriate: by Directors are encouraged and the Directors share interests Reviewing the external Auditors plan for the audit of the are disclosed in the Directors Report on page 22.
The Directors Companys financial statements: do not receive performance related remuneration.
Reviewing the external Auditors quality control procedures: Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness and cost THE COMPANY SECRETARY of the external audit process and the external Auditors The Company Secretary is a corporate secretary.
The independence and objectivity, with particular regard to the appointment of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board provision of non-audit services taking into consideration as a whole.
The Directors have access to the advice and services relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements and to of the Company Secretary through its appointed representative, consider the risks associated with audit firms withdrawing from Christopher Pirnie, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring the market: that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules Reviewing the overall services provided by the Companys and regulations are complied with.
The Directors also have the external Auditor and alternative audit services available: ability to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at Considering the scope of work undertaken by the Investment the Companys expense.
The Company maintains Directors and Managers internal audit department: Officers liability insurance.
Reviewing the Investment Managers report on internal controls and reporting to the Board: COMMITTEES Considering whether the Company needs an internal audit The Board of Directors discharges certain of its corporate function given that the Company delegates its day-to-day governance responsibilities through four Committees: operations to third parties : and THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Reviewing the Companys custody arrangements.
The Audit Committee consists of all the independent non-executive Directors, namely David Causer, John Owen, THE NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Nicholas Bull, Peter Pleydell-Bouverie and Elisabeth Scott, and The Nomination and Remuneration Committee consists of all the David Causer chairs this Committee as the Board believes it Directors, namely Nicholas Bull, David Causer, John Owen, Peter appropriate for him to do so given his financial background and Pleydell-Bouverie, Elisabeth Scott and Andrew Wells, and Nicholas experience as chairman of an audit committee.
The Committee Bull, Senior Independent Director, acts as the Chairman of the considers that collectively its members have sufficient recent and Committee.
relevant financial experience to discharge their responsibilities The Committee is charged with nominating new Directors for fully.
consideration by the Board of Directors, and subsequent approval by shareholders.
It believes that the best way of The Committees authority and duties are clearly defined in its ensuring that the Board as a whole and each independent written terms of reference which are available on the Companys Director individually carry out their duties in an independent pages of the Managers website: www.
manner, irrespective of the interests of the Investment Managers, is to ensure that the search for, the interview of and The Audit Committee of the Board meets formally twice a year recommendation to the Board of a candidate is entirely controlled and with the Auditor at least twice a year to review these by this Committee.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee and other appropriate matters.
A sub-committee of the Audit also considers the election and re-election of Directors.
Committee consisting of the Audit Committee Chairman and the Senior Independent Director meets regularly to review matters of The Committee also concerns itself with the remuneration of the an ad hoc nature.
Directors, considering the Directors roles and the responsibility and time involved in carrying these duties out effectively.
It also Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 28 Corporate Governance Statement makes itself aware of the directors fees of other investment trust Marketing commitment to and execution of activities companies and other comparable entities.
designed to secure sustainable demand from potential long-term investors.
On 25 July 2011, the Board announced its aim to achieve a ratio of two-thirds men and one-third women for new Director The Committees terms of reference are available on the appointments by 2013, with at least one quarter of Directors Companys pages of the website: www.
of the Board being women by 2015.
On 1 November 2011, the THE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE Board announced the appointment of Elisabeth Scott as a The Investment Committee consists of all the Directors and one non-executive Director.
representative of the Unlisted Investment Manager, with the requisite investment experience, attends on an advisory basis.
This Committee meets on an annual basis and as and when Peter Pleydell-Bouverie chairs this Committee as the Board required and makes recommendations to the Board where believes it appropriate for him to do so given his extensive appropriate.
The Committees terms of reference are available for inspection The Committee considers that collectively the members of the at the Companys registered office and are included on the Committee have sufficient recent and relevant investment and Companys pages of the website: www.
financial experience to discharge its responsibilities fully.
The THE MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE Committee is charged with reviewing and monitoring the on-going The Management Engagement Committee consists of all the performance of the investments: discussing with the Investment Managers the strategy for the investment portfolios: reviewing all independent non-executive Directors, namely John Owen, investments including pre-IPO opportunities: and reporting to the Nicholas Bull, David Causer, Peter Pleydell-Bouverie and Elisabeth Board on a periodic basis.
Scott, and John Owen, Chairman of the Company, also chairs this Committee.
The Committee is charged with reviewing and The Committee meets when appropriate or as the Chairman of monitoring the performance of the Investment Managers and the the Committee shall require.
Secretary in respect of their contracts and the fees they are paid.
This Committee meets at least once a year and reports to the FINANCIAL REPORTING Board, making recommendations where appropriate.
Set out on page 25 is a statement by the Directors of their responsibilities in respect of the financial statements.
The Auditor The level of remuneration of the Investment Managers and has set out its reporting responsibilities within the Independent the Secretary is determined by the Management Engagement Auditors Report on page 32.
The Board has a responsibility to Committee: this remuneration relates to the investment present a balanced and clear assessment of annual and interim management function carried out by the Investment Managers, reports, interim management statements, other price sensitive on which a percentage of the funds under management is paid, public reports, as well as to provide information required to be including a performance fee when appropriate, and to the presented by statutory requirements.
All such reports are reviewed administrative function carried out by the Secretary.
The Board is and approved by the Board prior to their issue to ensure that this mindful that the fees paid to the Investment Managers and to the responsibility is fulfilled.
Secretary should be at a level to ensure that both the Investment Managers and the administrators within the Secretariat who are RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL engaged to look after the Companys affairs are appropriately The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of risk skilled and that those individuals are fully focused on the management and internal control and for reviewing their Companys business.
The identification, control and evaluation of risk is assessed quarterly and a regular internal controls report is The criteria which are taken into consideration in reviewing the provided by the Manager.
The systems of risk management and performance of the Investment Managers and the Secretary internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate include those set out below: risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only Quality of team the skills and particular experience of the provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material teams involved in managing all aspects of the Companys misstatement or loss.
business: The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, Commitment of the Managers to the investment company including the Managers, the management of the investment business generally and to the Company in particular: portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding of Investment management, portfolio management skills, the assets, the registration services and the day-to-day accounting experience and track record and other investment related and Company Secretarial requirements.
Each of these contracts was considerations entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the Managing and controlling the administration, the accounting quality and cost of services offered including the control systems in and the company secretarial function: operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
Shareholder relations shareholder information and relations, discount and premium management: and The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken regular risk and controls assessments.
The business risks have been Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 29 Corporate Governance Statement analysed and recorded in a risk and internal controls report which SHAREHOLDERS is regularly reviewed.
The Board has reviewed the need for an The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are internal audit function.
The Board has decided that the systems made aware of shareholders concerns and the Chairman, the and procedures employed by the Managers, including their Senior Independent Director and other Directors are available to internal audit function and the work carried out by the Companys meet with major shareholders to discuss strategy and governance.
external Auditor, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the of internal control, which safeguards shareholders investments and Company and liaises with the Managers and the Companys the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function, broker to canvass shareholder opinion and communicate its specific to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
The Board aims to provide the maximum opportunity for dialogue between the Company and shareholders.
The Audit Committee has received and reviewed the report It believes that the Companys institutional shareholders have on the effectiveness of the internal controls maintained on proper access to the Managers at any time and to the Board if behalf of the Company and meets the Managers Internal Audit they so wish.
If any shareholder wishes to contact a member of the representative at least twice a year.
The Chairman of the Audit Board directly they should contact the Company Secretary whose Committee has direct access to the Managers Head of Internal details are given on pages 16 and 64.
The Board also receives each year from the Managers a report on their internal controls which includes a All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General report from the Managers reporting accountants on the control Meeting at which there will be a presentation of the years procedures in operation around the investment management and results and an opportunity to meet the Portfolio Manager, administration processes.
representatives of the Managers and the Board.
By means of the procedures set out above and in accordance Except where a poll is called, all resolutions at the Annual with the FRCs Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on General Meeting are dealt with on a show of hands.
The proxy the Combined Code, the Directors have established an ongoing voting results are counted, are available to the Meeting and are process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant disclosed in the Companys page of the Managers website risks faced by the Company and have reviewed the effectiveness www.
of the risk management and internal control systems throughout the The Notice of Meeting on pages 55 to 57 sets out the business year ended 31 March 2012.
This process continued to be in place of the Annual General Meeting.
A separate resolution is up to the date of the approval of these Financial Statements and is proposed on each substantially separate issue including the expected to remain in place for the coming year.
Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Chairman of the WHISTLE-BLOWING PROCEDURE Board and the other members of the Board, will be available Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a good to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice service pursuant to the Management Agreement includes the of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to ability for employees of FIL to raise concerns through a workplace shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
concerns escalation policy or whistle-blowing procedure.
DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES FIL has advised the Board that it is committed to providing the Other information required to be disclosed pursuant to the highest level of service to its customers and to applying the Disclosure and Transparency Rules is set out in the Directors highest standards of quality, honesty, integrity and probity.
The Report on pages 19 to 24 because it is information which refers aim of the policy is to encourage employees and others working to events that have taken place during the course of the year.
The for FIL to assist the Company in tackling fraud, corruption and following is a list of that information: other malpractice within the organisation and in setting standards of ethical conduct.
This policy has been endorsed accordingly.
Directors shareholdings BRIBERY ACT 2010 Directors and Officers liability insurance The Company is committed to carrying out business fairly, Substantial share interests honestly and openly.
The Board recognises the benefits this has to Share capital reputation and business confidence.
Share issues Share repurchases The Board, the Investment Managers, the Investment Manager s Going concern employees and others acting on the Companys behalf, are expected to demonstrate high standards of behaviour when conducting business.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the implementation and oversight of the Companys procedures for preventing bribery, On behalf of the Board and the governance framework for training, communication, John Owen monitoring, reporting and escalation of compliance together with Chairman enforcing action as appropriate.
The Board has adopted a zero 12 June 2012 tolerance policy in this regard.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 30
