Corporate Governance Statement The Company is committed to high standards of corporate Manager and the Company Secretary.
Accordingly, the Board has put in place a investment policy is detailed on pages 15 and 16. framework for corporate governance which it believes is appropriate for an investment trust company.
This Corporate The Board currently consists of six non-executive Directors, five of Governance Statement forms part of the Directors Report.
whom are independent of the Companys Manager and are considered to be free from any business or other relationship AIC CODE which could materially interfere with the exercise of their The Board of Fidelity European Values PLC has considered the independent judgement.
Marion Sears was appointed as a principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate non-executive Director on 17 January 2013 and Simon Duckworth Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate will step down from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
General Meeting on 16 May 2013 and the Board will then consist The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses of five non-executive Directors.
The Board follows a procedure of governance issues relevant to investment companies and notication of other interests that may arise as part of enables boards to satisfy any requirements they may have considering any potential conicts.
James Robinson, the Senior under the UK Code of Corporate Governance UK Code, as Independent Director, fulls the role as a sounding board for well as setting out additional principles and recommendations the Chairman and as intermediary for the other non-executive on issues that are of specic relevance to the Company.
Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Simon Fraser was an employee of the Manager until the end of Guide which incorporates the UK Code, will provide better December 2008 and is therefore not independent.
The Board information to shareholders.
The AIC Code and the AIC Guide believes it to be an important aspect of the corporate may be found at www.
co. uk governance of an investment trust company that there should be links with the Manager to ensure that the Manager is party to the The Company has complied with the recommendations of the responsibility, authority and accountability of the Board to the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code and shareholders.
The Directors are able to allocate sucient time to associated disclosure requirements of the Listing Rules except as the Company to discharge their responsibilities fully and set out below.
The UK Code includes provisions relating to: eectively.
t UIF SPMF PG UIF DIJFG FYFDVUJWF In common with most investment trusts there is no chief executive t FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST SFNVOFSBUJPO BOE as the management function has been delegated as set out above and is supervised by the Chairman and the Board.
The t UIF OFFE GPS BO JOUFSOBM BVEJU GVODUJPO independent Directors form the membership of the Audit For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in Committee and the Management Engagement Committee.
the UK Code, the Board considers that these provisions are not relevant to the position of Fidelity European Values PLC, being an BOARD BALANCE externally managed investment company.
The Company has The Board aims to have a balance of skills, expertise, therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
independence, length of service and knowledge of the Company represented on the Board.
The Directors believe The Company has no separate Nomination & Remuneration that the Board has an appropriate balance to discharge its Committee and in this respect does not comply with the UK Code duties and provide eective strategic leadership and proper principle A.
4 and the equivalent AIC Code principle.
The reasons governance of the Company.
In particular the Directors have for non-compliance are detailed on pages 25 and 26. a wide knowledge and experience of fund management, investment trust management and business in Europe.
Biographical details of all the Directors are given on page 14 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES of this report.
THE BOARD The Directors support the recommendations of Lord Davies of The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Companys aairs and for promoting the long term success of Abersoch in his report, Women on Boards, published in 2011. the Company.
It delegates through the Management Agreement and through specic instructions the day to day management of The Board carries out its candidate searches with full regard to the Company to the Manager, FIL Investments International.
The the benets of diversity, including gender, drawing from the Company has no executives or employees.
All matters not widest possible pool of talent against a set of objective criteria, delegated to the Manager are reserved for the Boards decision.
and makes its appointments on the basis of merit.
Matters reserved for the Board include, inter alia, decisions on strategy, management, structure, capital, share issues, share The Board is pleased to announce that Marion Sears was repurchases, gearing, financial reporting, risk management, appointed to the Board on 17 January 2013 as a non-executive investment performance, share price discount, corporate Director.
governance, Board appointments and the appointment of the Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 24 Corporate Governance Statement Management Regular Audit Engagement Board Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Humphrey van der Klugt 5 5 3 3 1 1 Simon Duckworth, DL 4 5 2 3 1 1 Simon Fraser 5 5 n a n a Robin Niblett 5 5 3 3 1 1 James Robinson 5 5 3 3 1 1 Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year Regular Board Meetings exclude procedural meetings held to discharge, for example, formal approvals BOARD MEETINGS Key representatives of the Manager attend each Board meeting, The Board meets formally at least ves times a year and enabling the Board to probe further on matters of concern or between these meetings there is regular contact with the seek clarification on certain issues.
Other meetings are arranged as necessary.
Additionally, Board Committees and sub-groups meet to pursue The Board has delegated certain of its corporate governance matters referred from the Board and the Chairman is in contact responsibilities to the Audit and Management Engagement with the other Directors regularly without representatives of the Committees, each composed of all the independent Directors.
The Board ensures that it conducts its business at all times with only the interests of the shareholders in CHANGES TO THE BOARD mind and quite independently of any other associations.
It All appointments to the Board and replacements of Directors endeavours to provide leadership in terms of the direction of the take place in accordance with the Companies Act, the Company.
Companys Articles of Association and the AIC Code.
Whilst the independent Directors take the lead in the appointment of new The Board considers that it meets suciently regularly to Directors, any proposal for a new Director will be discussed and approved by the whole Board.
As a consequence, there is no discharge its duties eectively and the table above gives the attendance record for the formal meetings held in the reporting Nomination Committee.
External consultants are used to identify year to 31 December 2012. potential candidates.
COMPANY SECRETARY The Board carries out its candidate search against a set of The Company Secretary is a corporate secretary.
The objective criteria on the basis of merit, with due regard for the appointment of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board benets of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary through its appointed representative The terms and conditions of appointment of Directors are who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board available for inspection at the registered oce of the Company procedures are followed and that applicable rules and and will be made available prior to the forthcoming Annual regulations are complied with.
Each of the Directors of the General Meeting.
Company is entitled to take independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, in the furtherance of their duties.
TRAINING When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he or she is SUPPLY OF INFORMATION TO DIRECTORS provided with all relevant information regarding the Company and his or her duties and responsibilities as a Director.
In The Chairman is responsible for the promotion of a culture of openness and debate, for ensuring that the Directors receive addition, a new Director will receive an induction, spending time accurate, timely and clear information and for ensuring that there with representatives of the Manager whereby he or she will is adequate time available for the discussion of agenda items, become familiar with the various processes which the Manager particularly strategic issues.
considers necessary for the performance of its duties and responsibilities to the Company.
The Board receives in due time information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The The Companys policy is to encourage Directors to keep up to Board meeting papers are the key source of regular information date and attend training courses on matters which are directly for the Board, the contents of which are determined by the Board relevant to their involvement with the Company and the and contain sucient information on the financial condition of Chairman reviews and agrees development and training needs the Company.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 25 Corporate Governance Statement The Directors also receive regular briengs from, among others, Since all Directors are non-executive, the Company is not required to comply with the principles of the UK Code in respect the AIC, the Auditor and the Company Secretary regarding any proposed developments or changes in law or regulations that of executive directors remuneration.
Directors fees are disclosed could aect the Company and or the Directors.
fully in the Annual Report see the Directors Remuneration Report on page 30.
Levels of fees are considered to be ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION competitive and sucient to attract and retain the standard of As required by company law, all newly appointed Directors Directors needed to manage the Company successfully.
The limit stand for election by the shareholders at the Annual General on aggregate fees is governed by the Companys Articles of Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
Shareholdings by Directors are encouraged and the accordance with the AIC Code all Directors are subject to annual Directors share interests are disclosed on page 20 of the re-election due to the Companys status as a FTSE 350 company.
The Directors do not receive performance Biographical details can be found on page 14.
been put in place whereby formal letters of appointment, which specify the terms of appointment, are issued to new Directors on AUDIT COMMITTEE appointment and to existing Directors following re-election at the The Audit Committee consists of all of the independent Directors Annual General Meeting.
The Board will consider the length of and is chaired by Mr Robinson.
Mr van der Klugt is a member of tenure as one of the matters under review during Director the Audit Committee because the Board believes it to be appropriate for all independent Directors to have such evaluations.
The Committee meets three times a year and PERFORMANCE EVALUATION considers that collectively its members have sucient recent and A formal and rigorous process for the evaluation of the Board, its relevant financial experience to discharge their responsibilities Committees and its Directors has been put in place and takes fully.
The process includes regular discussion and regular written questionnaires, although the format may change The Committees authority and duties are clearly dened in its from time to time to ensure that the Board does not become written terms of reference which are available on the Companys complacent in fullling a box-ticking exercise.
If appropriate, pages of the Managers website www.
duties include: responsibility for making recommendations on the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external The performance and contribution to the Company of the Auditor, discussing with the external Auditor the nature and Chairman and each Director holding oce during the year to scope of the audit and reviewing the external Auditors quality control procedures: considering the scope of work undertaken 31December 2012 was considered using an external evaluation agency.
It has been concluded that in each case the Directors by the Managers internal audit department: reviewing the have been eective and that they continue to demonstrate Companys procedures for detecting fraud: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company: reviewing commitment to their roles.
The candidature of the Directors seeking election and re-election has been endorsed by the the half-yearly and annual financial statements of the Company Board as a whole which commends their election and re-election prior to their submission to the Board: and reviewing the to shareholders.
The performance of the Chairman is evaluated eectiveness of the internal control system including financial, by the Board in the Chairmans absence on an annual basis.
operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The Company Secretary and Portfolio Manager also participate They also include responsibility for reviewing and monitoring in parts of these processes to provide all-round feedback to the eectiveness of the audit process and the external Auditors the Board.
The results of these evaluations are discussed by the independence and objectivity with particular regard to the Board and the process is considered to be constructive in provision of non-audit services, taking into consideration relevant terms of identifying areas for improving the functioning and UK professional and regulatory requirements and by seeking performance of the Board and action is taken on the basis appropriate disclosures and comfort from the Auditor.
provision of non-audit services is also subject to prior Board approval.
No work other than audit was carried out by the Companys Auditor during the year.
The Board undertakes annual evaluations of itself and its Committees and have agreed that eective from 30 June 2013 the Management Engagement Committee should also be The Committee also reviews corporate governance issues, the existence and performance of all controls operating in the included in this evaluation process in order to assess the eectiveness of the Committee and of the Manager.
Company including the adherence to Section 1159 Corporation Tax Act 2010 status, the relationship with and the performance of DIRECTORS REMUNERATION third party service providers such as the registrars and The level of Directors fees is determined by the whole Board custodians and the risks associated with audit rms withdrawing and therefore a separate Remuneration Committee has not been from the market which is considered in the Committees risk appointed.
Directors do not vote on their own fees.
These fees evaluation and planning.
take into account the responsibilities, commitment and work involved for the Directors together with the levels of remuneration paid by similar companies.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 26 Corporate Governance Statement The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year and with renegotiated to include a performance related element with eect from 1 January 2007.
This was further renegotiated with the Auditor at least once a year to review these and other appropriate matters.
The criteria which are taken into consideration in reviewing the In the year to 31December 2012 the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by inter alia: performance of the Manager are set out below: t 3FWJFXJOH UIF $PNQBOZ T ESBGU BOOVBM BOE IBMG ZFBSMZ t 2VBMJUZ PG UFBN o UIF TLJMMT BOE QBSUJDVMBSMZ UIF FYQFSJFODF PG financial statements prior to Board approval and reviewing the team involved in managing all aspects of the Companys the external Auditors report on the annual financial business: statements: t $PNNJUNFOU PG UIF.
"BOBHFS UP UIF JOWFTUNFOU USVTU CVTJOFTT t 3FWJFXJOH UIF BQQSPQSJBUFOFTT PG UIF $PNQBOZ T BDDPVOUJOH generally and to the Company in particular: policies: t. BOBHJOH UIF $PNQBOZ o JO SVOOJOH BOE DPOUSPMMJOH UIF t 3FWJFXJOH BOE BQQSPWJOH UIF BVEJU GFF BOE SFWJFXJOH BOZ administration, the accounting and the secretaryship of the non-audit fees payable to the Companys external Auditor: Company: t 3FWJFXJOH UIF FYUFSOBM ""VEJUPS T UFSNT PG FOHBHFNFOU t OWFTUNFOU NBOBHFNFOU o QPSUGPMJP NBOBHFNFOU TLJMMT including the reappointment or removal of the Auditor as experience and track record and other investment related considerations including gearing, currencies, hedging, appropriate: t 3FWJFXJOH UIF FYUFSOBM ""VEJUPS T QMBO GPS UIF BVEJU PG UIF buybacks etc: Companys financial statements: t 4IBSFIPMEFST o TIBSFIPMEFS DPOTDJPVTOFTT BOE SFMBUJPOT t 3FWJFXJOH UIF FYUFSOBM ""VEJUPS T RVBMJUZ DPOUSPM QSPDFEVSFT discount management and commitment to the Companys t 3FWJFXJOH BOE NPOJUPSJOH UIF FFDUJWFOFTT PG UIF FYUFSOBM goals: and audit process and the external Auditors independence and t. BOBHFNFOU ""HSFFNFOU o DPOTJEFSBUJPO PG GFFT OPUJDF objectivity: periods and duties."
t 3FWJFXJOH UIF PWFSBMM TFSWJDFT QSPWJEFE CZ UIF $PNQBOZ T external Auditor: The Committee met on 17 January 2013 and reviewed the t $POTJEFSJOH UIF TDPQF PG XPSL VOEFSUBLFO CZ UIF.
BOBHFS T performance of the Manager for the year to 31 December 2012. internal audit department: The Committee noted the Companys good recent and long t 3FWJFXJOH SFQPSUT PO SJTL BOE JOUFSOBM DPOUSPMT BOE SFQPSUJOH term performance record and the commitment, quality and to the Board: experience of the team which was responsible for the Company.
The Committee concluded that it was in the interests of t $POTJEFSJOH BOE SFDPOmSNJOH UIBU UIF $PNQBOZ EPFT OPU need an internal audit function given that the Company shareholders that the appointment of the Manager should delegates its day to day operations to third parties: continue.
Details of the Management Agreement appear on pages 19 and 20. t 3FWJFXJOH SFQPSUT PO SJTL BOE JOUFSOBM DPOUSPMT BOE SFQPSUJOH to the Board: and t 3FWJFXJOH UIF $PNQBOZ T DVTUPEZ BSSBOHFNFOUT ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT The last review of alternative audit service providers took place FINANCIAL REPORTING in 2006 resulting in a change of audit rm.
The Auditors Set out on page 23 is a statement by the Directors of their continued appointment is reviewed each year and audit partners responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the annual report change at least once every five years.
There are no contractual and financial statements.
The Auditor has set out its reporting obligations that restrict the Committees choice of Auditor.
responsibilities within the Independent Auditors Report on page32.
MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE The Management Engagement Committee consists of all of the The Board has a responsibility to present a balanced and independent Directors and is chaired by Mr van der Klugt.
The understandable assessment of annual, half-yearly, other price Committee is charged with reviewing and monitoring the sensitive public reports and reports to regulators, as well as to performance of the Manager and ensuring that the terms of the provide information required to be presented by statutory Companys Management Agreement are competitive and requirements.
All such reports are reviewed and approved by reasonable for shareholders.
This Committee meets at least the Board prior to their issue to ensure that this responsibility is annually and reports to the Board of Directors, making fullled.
The Committees terms of reference may be found on the Companys pages of the RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Managers website www.
The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of risk management and internal control and for reviewing their The level of remuneration of the Manager is agreed by the eectiveness.
The identication, control and evaluation of risk is Management Engagement Committee: it relates to the assessed quarterly and a regular internal controls report is investment management function, on which a percentage of the provided by the Manager.
The systems of risk management and funds under management is paid.
The management fee was internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 27 Corporate Governance Statement risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only within the organisation and in setting high standards of ethical conduct.
This policy is endorsed accordingly.
provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
BRIBERY ACT 2010 The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, The Company is committed to carrying out business fairly, including the Manager, the management of the investment honestly and openly.
The Board recognises the benets this has portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding to reputation and business confidence.
The Board, the Investment of the assets, the registration services and the day-to-day Manager, the Investment Managers employees and others accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of these acting on the Companys behalf, are expected to demonstrate contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by high standards of behaviour when conducting business.
the Board of the quality and cost of services oered including the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the implementation aairs of the Company.
and oversight of the Companys procedures for preventing bribery, and the governance framework for training, The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken a regular communication, monitoring, reporting and escalation of risk and controls assessment.
The business risks have been compliance together with enforcing action as appropriate.
The analysed and recorded in a risk and internal controls report Board has adopted a zero tolerance policy in this regard.
The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function.
The Board has decided that the RESPONSIBILITY AS INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER systems and procedures employed by the Manager, including its The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of Ownership internal audit function and the work carried out by the in relation to investments.
These principles include the pursuit of Companys external Auditor, provide sucient assurance that a an active investment policy through portfolio management sound system of internal control which safeguards shareholders decisions, voting on resolutions at general meetings and investments and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal maintaining a continuing dialogue with the management of audit function, specic to the Company, is therefore considered investee companies.
The Manager, in its Principles of Ownership, unnecessary.
expressly declares that it supports the Financial Reporting Councils Stewardship Code setting out the responsibilities of The Audit Committee has received and reviewed the report on institutional shareholders and agents.
the eectiveness of the internal controls maintained on behalf of the Company and meets a representative of the Managers Further details of the Managers Principles of Ownership and voting may be found at www.
co. uk internal audit team at least three times a year.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee has direct access to the Managers internal audit team and vice versa.
The Board also receives each year RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are from the Manager a report on its internal controls which includes a report from the Managers reporting accountants on the made aware of shareholders concerns and the Chairman, the control procedures in operation around the investment Senior Independent Director and other Directors have meetings management and administration processes.
with major shareholders to discuss strategy and governance.
The shareholder prole of the Company is regularly monitored and By means of the procedures set out above and in accordance the Board liaises with the Manager and the Companys broker to with the Financial Reporting Councils Internal Control: Revised canvass shareholder opinion and communicate views to Guidance for Directors, the Directors have established an shareholders.
The Company is concerned to provide the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the maximum opportunity for dialogue between the Company and significant risks faced by the Company and have reviewed the shareholders.
It is believed that institutional shareholders have eectiveness of the risk management and internal control proper access to the Manager at any time and to the Board if systems throughout the year ended 31 December 2012.
If any shareholder wishes to contact a member of process continued to be in place up to the date of the approval the Board directly they should contact the Company Secretary whose details are given on page 13. of these financial statements and is expected to remain in place for the coming year.
All shareholders, particularly individual shareholders, are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting at which WHISTLE-BLOWING PROCEDURE Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a good there is a presentation of the past years results and the service pursuant to the Management Agreement includes the forthcoming years prospects, followed by the opportunity to ability for employees of Fidelity to raise concerns through a meet the Board and representatives of the Manager.
workplace concerns escalation policy or whistle-blowing procedure.
Fidelity is committed to providing the highest level At general meetings all proxy votes are counted and, except of service to its customers and to applying the highest standards where a poll is called, proxy voting is reported for each of quality, honesty, integrity and probity.
The aim of the policy is resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Proxy to encourage employees and others working for Fidelity to assist votes are disclosed on the Companys pages of the Managers the Company in tackling fraud, corruption and other malpractice website.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 28 Corporate Governance Statement The Notice of the Annual General Meeting on pages 55 to 57 sets out the business of the meeting and the resolutions dealing with special business are explained more fully in the Directors Report on pages 21 and 22.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including the annual report and financial statements.
The Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
THE COMPANYS ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Changes to the Companys Articles of Association must be made by special resolution.
DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES Other information required to be disclosed pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules has been placed in the Directors Report on pages 18 to 22 because it is information which refers to events that have taken place during the course of the year.
The following is a list of that information: Directors shareholdings Directors and Ocers liability insurance Going concern Share capital Share issues Share repurchases Substantial share interests On behalf of the Board Humphrey van der Klugt Chairman 26 February 2013 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 29
