Corporate Governance Statement Introduction and all investments in in-house funds managed or The Board has considered the principles set out in advised by the Manager.
the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code There is no chief executive position within the and the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Company, as day-to-day management of the Code.
The Board believes that during the period Companys affairs has been delegated to the under review the Company has complied with the proManager.
visions of the UK Code, in so far as they relate to the The following table sets out the number of Board Companys business.
The Board is also adhering to and committee meetings held and attended during the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code.
The Board held a strategy meeting in September 2012 to consider strategic Articles of association issues and also met in closed session on three The companys Articles of Association may only be occasions during the year, without any representation amended by special resolution at general meetings of from the Manager.
All the Directors attended the shareholders.
Directors attendance The Board Audit and The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship Management Engagement Nomination of the Companys affairs and reviews the schedule Board Committee Committee of matters reserved for its decision, which are No.
of meetings 84 2 categorised under various headings.
These include 1 Simon Fraser 84 2 strategy, policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, 2 Sarah Arkle 8 3 n a performance, marketing, appointments, the Board Sir Roger Bone 7 n a 2 and public documents.
It has responsibility for all Stephen Burley 8 4 n a corporate strategic issues, dividend policy, share Jeff Hewitt 8 4 n a buyback policy and corporate governance matters Christopher Keljik 84 2 which are all reviewed regularly.
3 Nicholas Moakes 8 n a 1 In order to enable them to discharge their 4 Sir Michael Bunbury 31 1 responsibilities, all Directors have full and timely 4 Sir David Clementi 2 n a nil access to relevant information.
At each meeting 1 Attends but is not a member of the Audit Committee.
the Board reviews the Companys investment 2 Joined the Audit & Management Engagement Committee on 8 May 2012. performance and considers financial analyses and 3 Joined the Nomination Committee on 8 May 2012.
4 Retired as a Director on 8 May 2012. other reports of an operational nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the Companys objectives Each Director has signed a terms of appointment and is responsible for setting asset allocation, letter with the Company, in each case including investment and gearing limits within which the Fund one months notice of termination by either party.
Manager has discretion to act, and thus supervises These are available for inspection at the Companys the management of the investment portfolio which is registered office during normal business hours and contractually delegated to the Manager.
are also available at annual general meetings.
The Board has the right of veto over the Directors are able to seek independent professional appointment of sub-managers recommended by the advice at the Companys expense in relation to Fund Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the their duties.
No such advice was taken during the approval of private equity and unlisted investments year under review.
The Board has direct access to company secretarial advice and services of the Manager which, through the Company Secretary, is Copies of both codes may be found on the respective websites: www.
Investors in New Zealand responsible for ensuring that Board and Committee should note that the corporate governance rules and principles applicable to the Company in the UK may differ from those of procedures are followed and applicable regulations the New Zealand Stock Exchanges Corporate Governance Best Practice Code.
The proceedings at all Board and Report and Accounts 2012 27 Corporate Governance Statement continued other meetings are fully recorded through a process built on the objectives and the critical success factors that allows any Directors concerns to be recorded established and identified from the appraisal process in the minutes.
The Board has the power to appoint for 2010 for which the Chairman was supported or remove the Company Secretary in accordance by independent consultants, Manchester Square with the terms of the Management Agreement.
The process for 2012 included confidential, powers of the Board relating to the buying back of unattributable, one-to-one interviews between the the Companys shares are explained on page 18.
The appraisal of the There also follows a brief explanation of the Boards Chairman was covered as part of the process and powers to issue shares.
led separately by the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairmans report on progress against the Appointments, diversity and succession planning objectives and critical success factors identified in Under the articles of association of the Company, 2010 was reviewed as part of the process for 2012. the number of directors on the Board may be no more than fifteen.
Directors may be appointed by Removal of Directors the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
The Company may by special resolution remove any All new appointments by the Board are subject Director before the expiration of his period of office and to election by shareholders at the next AGM and may by ordinary resolution appoint another person who institutional shareholders are given the opportunity is willing to act to be a director in his place.
to meet any newly appointed Director if they wish.
Any Director automatically ceases to be a Director if: All the other Directors stand for re-election by i they give the company a written notice of shareholders annually.
resignation, The final decision with regard to new appointments ii they give the company a written offer to resign always rests with the Board.
A professional search and the Board resolves to accept this offer, consultancy is appointed for the purpose of finding iii all of the other Directors remove them from suitable candidates.
An induction process is in place office by notice in writing served upon them, for new appointees and all Directors are encouraged iv in the written opinion of a registered medical to attend relevant training courses and seminars.
practitioner they are or have become physically or There were no new appointments during the year.
mentally incapable of acting as a Director and are The Board believes in the benefits of having likely to remain so for more than three months, a diverse range of skills and backgrounds, v by reason of a Directors mental health, a including gender and length of service, on its court makes an order which wholly or partly board of Directors.
All appointments will continue prevents that director from personally exercising to be based on merit and therefore the Board is any powers or rights which that Director would unwilling to commit to numerical diversity targets.
otherwise have, The Board is also of the view that length of service vi a bankruptcy order is made against them or will not necessarily compromise the independence they make any arrangement or composition with or contribution of directors of an investment trust their creditors generally, company, where continuity and experience can add vii they are prohibited from being a Director by law: or significantly to the strength of the board.
In normal viii they are absent from Board meetings for six circumstances the Directors are expected to serve for consecutive months without permission and the a nine year term, but this may be adjusted for reasons other Directors resolve that their office should be of flexibility, continuity and succession planning.
Board effectiveness Independence of Directors The 2012 annual appraisal of the Board, the The Board, which is composed solely of independent Committees and the individual Directors was non-executive Directors, regularly reviews the completed by the Chairman in January 2013.
This independence of its members.
All the Directors 28 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC have been assessed by the Board as remaining vii the question of each Directors independence independent of the Manager and of the Company prior to publication of the Annual Report and itself: none has a past or current connection with Accounts: the Manager and each remains independent in viii the authorisation of each Directors situational character and judgement with no relationships or conflicts of interests in accordance with the circumstances relating to the Company that are likely provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the to affect that judgement.
policy and procedures established by the Board in relation to these provisions: and Conflicts of interest ix the Directors contract for services and terms of A company director has a statutory obligation to office as set out in their Letter of Appointment.
avoid a situation in which he or she has, or potentially All of the Nomination Committees responsibilities could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts have been carried out over the course of 2012 and in with the interests of the company a situational January 2013. conflict.
The Board therefore has procedures in The Committees terms of reference are available place for the authorisation and review of situational on request and can also be found on the Companys conflicts relating to the Directors.
Limits can be website at www.
membership is listed on pages 12 and 13 and Other than the formal authorisation of the attendance at meetings on page 27.
Directors other directorships as situational conflicts, no authorisations have been sought.
These Remuneration Committee authorisations were reviewed in January 2013, and As the Board has no executive Directors and no each Director abstained from voting in respect of employees, and is composed solely of non-executives, their own directorships.
it does not have a remuneration committee.
Detailed Aside from situational conflicts, the Directors information on the remuneration arrangements for must also comply with the statutory rules requiring the Directors of the Company can be found in the company directors to declare any interest in an Directors Remuneration Report on pages 25 and actual or proposed transaction or arrangement with 26 and in note 6 on the accounts.
Audit and Management Engagement Committee Nomination Committee The primary responsibilities of the Audit and The role of the Nomination Committee is to review Management Engagement Committee are to and make recommendations to the Board with monitor the integrity of the financial reporting and regard to: statements of the Company, and to oversee the audit i Board structure, size and composition, the of the annual and half-yearly accounts and the internal balance of knowledge, experience, skill range control and risk management processes.
Committee and diversity: membership is listed on pages 12 and 13 and ii succession planning and tenure policy: its terms of reference can be found on the website iii the criteria for future Board appointments at www.
All the committee and the methods of recruitment, selection, members are independent non-executive Directors.
appointment and induction: Jeff Hewitt, chairman of the committee, is a chartered iv the appointment of new Directors and the accountant and was for many years Group Finance re-appointment of those Directors standing for Director of Electrocomponents plc.
He is audit re-election at annual general meetings: committee chairman for several listed companies.
The v changes in committee membership: other members of the committee have a combination vi the attendance and time commitment of the of financial, investment and business experience Directors in fulfilling their duties, including the through the senior posts held throughout their careers.
extent of their other directorships: The committee has direct access to PwC: the Heads Report and Accounts 2012 29 Corporate Governance Statement continued of Internal Audit and Risk of the Manager: and to controls and management of risk below and an the Managers group audit committee and reports annual compliance report.
Following a recommendaits findings to the Board.
The Board retains ultimate tion from the committee, the Board has concluded responsibility for all aspects relating to external that there is no current need for the Company to financial statements and other significant published have an internal audit function: all of the Companys financial information.
management functions are delegated to the The committee met on four occasions during the Manager, which has its own internal audit departyear with the Managers Head of Trust Accounting, ment, and whose controls are monitored by the Head of Internal Audit and the Fund Manager in Board.
The Chairman of the Company also Specifically, the committee considered, monitored attends.
PwC attended the majority of the scheduled and reviewed the following matters throughout the year: committee meetings and occasionally met in closed t The audited results statements, annual and session with the committee.
In carrying out its half-yearly reports and accounts and interim responsibilities the committee has considered the management statements: planning, arrangements and conclusions of the audit t The accounting policies of the Company: for the period under review.
PwC carried out an t The effectiveness of the Companys internal control independent review for the half-year ended 30 June environment: 2012 and in October 2012 the committee considered t The effectiveness of the audit process and and approved PwCs plan for the full year audit.
PwC the independence and objectivity of PwC their submitted their report to the committee meeting in reappointment, remuneration and terms of February 2013 in which they had highlighted the engagement: following areas of focus: t The policy on the engagement of PwC to supply t Valuation and existence of investments.
non-audit services: t Accuracy and completeness of investment t The need for the Company to have its own internal accounting entries.
audit function: t Recognition of income from the underlying t The implications of proposed new accounting investments.
standards and regulatory changes: t Foreign exchange and derivative gains losses.
t The receipt of AAF reports or their equivalent from t Accuracy and disclosure of expenses.
the Custodian, the private equity managers and the t Taxation charge and maintenance of section 1158 sub-managers and a due diligence report from the status.
Companys share registrars: t Cash balances and borrowings and calculation of t The performance of the Companys third party interest.
service providers and administrators, and the fees t Procedures relating to fraud and the prevention of charged in respect of those services including material misstatement of the financial statements those of the Manager and Custodian: t Counterparty approval and the Managers dealing PwC confirmed at the meeting that they had no efficiency and associated costs: reason not to issue an unqualified audit report in t Investment restrictions including limits on the respect of the financial year ended 31 December writing of options and stock lending: 2012.
The unqualified audit report can be found on t Compliance with the provisions of the trust deed page 34. for the 11.25% debenture stock 2014: At each of its meetings the committee receives t The Companys trademarks and intellectual a report from the Managers Head of Internal property rights: Audit which include any internal audit and complit Directors and Officers Liability insurance: ance monitoring reports of direct relevance to the t The implications of the AIFMD: and Company.
In February 2013 the committee received t The committees terms of reference.
and reviewed the Report referred to under Internal 30 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC The committee has reviewed, and is satisfied with, Internal controls and management of risk the Managers Anti-Fraud, Bribery and Corruption The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys Strategy and Policy and with the whistleblowing systems of internal controls, for reviewing their policy that has been put in place by the Manager under effectiveness and ensuring that risk management which its staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about and control processes are embedded in the daypossible improprieties in financial reporting or other to-day operations of the Company.
The necessary arrangements are in place for aim to ensure that the assets of the Company are proportionate and independent investigation of such safeguarded, proper accounting records are matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
maintained, and the financial information used within As part of the review of auditor independence and the business and for publication is reliable.
Control effectiveness, PwC have confirmed that they are of the risks identified, covering financial, operational, independent of the Company and have complied compliance and overall risk management, is exercised with relevant auditing standards.
In evaluating PwC, by the Board through regular reports provided by the the committee has recognised the necessity for the Manager on investment performance, performance Manager and the Company to use different audit attribution, compliance with agreed investment firms and taken into consideration the standing, restrictions, financial analyses, revenue estimates, skills and experience of the firm and the audit team.
performance of the third party administrators of the The appointment has not been put out to tender F&C savings plans and on other management issues.
notwithstanding PwCs tenure over many years as The Managers Internal Audit Department prepares the committee, from direct observation and indirect a control report that provides details of any internal enquiry of management, remains satisfied that PwC control failure.
A key risk summary is also produced continue to provide effective independent challenge in to help identify the risks to which the Company is carrying out their responsibilities.
On the basis of this exposed and the controls in place to mitigate assessment, the committee has recommended the them, including risks that are directly and indirectly continuing appointment of PwC to the Board.
Following the responsibility of the Manager.
The Companys professional guidelines, the partner rotates after five principal risks are set out on pages 17 and 18, years and this is the fourth year for the current partner.
with additional information given in note 27 on the The audit will be put out to tender in conjunction accounts.
Fees for audit services The systems of internal controls are designed to amounted to 89,000 for 2012 of which 18,000 manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve related to an independent review report for the period to business objectives and can only provide reasonable, 30 June 2012. but not absolute, assurance against material misThe committee has also reviewed the provision statement, or loss or fraud.
of non-audit services, which cost 11,000 in 2012, The Board has carried out a risk and control and considers them to be cost effective and not assessment concurrent with the approval of this report to compromise the independence of PwC.
Nonand accounts, including a review of the Managers audit services totalling 9,000 were in relation to risk management infrastructure and the report on taxation compliance services and 2,000 of other policies and procedures in operation and tests for assurance services were in relation to a review of the the period 1 January to 31 December 2012 the debenture compliance certificate.
This has been prepared by the Manager the committee is advised of non-audit work required for its investment trust clients to the standards of the and a decision to authorise is taken on a case-byInstitute of Chartered Accountants in England and case basis in line with ethical guidelines.
Further Wales Technical Release AAF 01 06.
Containing information can be found in note 5 on the accounts.
a report from independent external accountants, the Report sets out the Managers control policies and procedures with respect to the management of its clients investments and maintenance of their Report and Accounts 2012 31 Corporate Governance Statement continued financial records.
The effectiveness of these controls can be found under Voting rights and proportional is monitored by the Managers group audit committee, voting on page 19. which receives regular reports from the Managers At annual general meetings, all investors have the Internal Audit Department.
Procedures are in place opportunity to question and meet the Chairman, the to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses and Board and the Fund Manager.
ensure that action would be taken to remedy any All beneficial shareholders in the F&C savings plans significant issues identified from this monitoring, which have the opportunity to vote using a form of direction would be reported to the Board.
No material failings or and have the right to attend, speak and vote at all weaknesses in respect of the Company were identified meetings.
The Manager has stated that the nominee in the year under review.
company will vote the shares held on behalf of plan holders who have not returned their voting directions in Relations with shareholders proportion to the directions of those who have.
Shareholder communication is given a high priority.
In Shareholders wishing to communicate with the addition to the annual and half-yearly reports that are Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or any available to shareholders, monthly fact sheets and other member of the Board may do so by writing general information are available on the Companys to the Company, for the attention of the Company website at www.
Secretary, at the address set out on page 14 or by A regular dialogue is maintained with the Companys emailing to FCITCoSec@fandc.
institutional shareholders and with private client asset managers.
As in previous years, the Chairman contacted the top institutional shareholders, as a By order of the Board result of which email correspondence took place with for and on behalf of F&C Management Limited a small number of these shareholders.
Reference to Secretary significant holdings in the Companys ordinary shares 1 March 2013 32 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
