Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Our business performance is monitored risks in their business units.
Regular success comes from putting the client investors to communicate directly and Attendance at meetings during the year by members of the Board and each committee.
closely by the Board and senior meetings are held between department first, Hargreaves Lansdown second and Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive management, in particular monitoring of: managers and the Chief Risk Officer to your department third.
This engenders Meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee ensure that risk management remains high service levels which many other companies To ensure compliance with the Code, at progress towards strategic objectives: meetings meetings meetings meetings all general meetings separate resolutions financial performance, within a on the agenda of the business.
Target dates can only aspire to and ensures that the are proposed on each discrete subject.
framework including forecasting, for resolution of issues are continually requirements of our clients are foremost in Directors monitored.
A summary of significant risks our employees decision making process.
Resolutions have been passed on a show financial reporting, reviewing Ian Gorham 5 5 - - - 5 5 of hands, and proxy votes for, against and variances against plan and taking is provided within the Business Review.
Peter Hargreaves 5 5 - - - 5 5 withheld for each resolution are displayed at appropriate management action: and Group Finance Tracey Taylor 5 5 - - - 5 5 The Group Finance department manages the meeting.
Following the AGM, the results risk management processes.
Risk management processes within the of voting are published through a Regulatory Group accord with the Turnbull guidance, our financial reporting processes to Michael Evans 5 5 - 5 5 3 3 - Information Service and on our website.
Organisational structure and policies and are supported by reports from the ensure the information which enables our Jonathan Bloomer 5 5 5 5 5 5 3 3 - Chris Barling 5 5 5 5 5 5 3 3 - The Board regularly reviews the Groups Internal Audit function which include focus Board to discharge its responsibilities is 1 organisational structure to seek to ensure that on significant risks faced by the Company.
It ensures cost INTERNAL CONTROLS Dharmash Mistry 3 3 3 3 3 3 1 1 - 1 Stephen Robertson 3 3 3 3 - 1 1 - clearly defined lines of responsibility exist, controls are in place and that the business Through the monitoring processes set out Stephen Lansdown 4 5 - - - - with appropriate delegation of authority.
Management information efficiently manages its resources.
It also Detailed packs of key information produces a financial forecast based on below, the Board has conducted a review of Periodic reviews take place to ensure that staff the effectiveness of the system of internal Executive Committee of the right caliber are employed, particularly are circulated monthly to our senior the strategic and operational plans of the Theresa Barry - - - - 4 5 control during the year ended 30 June 2012. in key roles.
Roles and responsibilities are management and Non-executive Directors.
business which is continuously reviewed Nigel Bence - - - - 4 5 This includes key financial and operational to determine the likely year-end outcome clearly communicated to each member of staff Alex Davies - - - - 4 5 The system of internal control is designed within their Apportionment forms.
and is used to plan and review regulatory Nick Marson - - - - 5 5 to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk reviewed annually and updated if necessary.
Ian Hunter - - - - 4 5 of failure to achieve business objectives Risk Committee 1 David Davies - - - - 2 2 and provide reasonable but not absolute The Board regularly reviews the Groups The Risk Committee reports to the Board and Group Compliance assurance as to the effectiveness of the policies.
The Groups Treasury function the Audit Committee on the management of Our Compliance function manages safeguards protecting the business against Where Board meetings have been held for a specific purpose to discuss matters at short notice, all Board operates within a well-defined policy the major risks facing the Group as assessed relationships with the Groups key regulators members are sent papers and given the opportunity to comment by telephone or email if they are unable to attend designed to manage the Groups liquidity against the Groups Risk Appetite.
alongside identifying major compliance and the risk of material error, loss or fraud.
In addition to the four scheduled Board meetings during the year, one additional meeting was held that context, the review, in the opinion arrangements and to manage its exposure regulatory risks.
Our Money Laundering to discuss and approve appointment of the new non-executive directors to the Board.
1 Attendance represents number of meetings held since date of appointment of the Board, did not indicate that the to risks, such as interest rate risk and Remuneration policy Reporting Officer MLRO forms part of counterparty risk.
Risk management is imbedded into the the Compliance team and is responsible system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware of any change Apportionment Forms of every employee for ensuring we have suitable anti-money to this status up to the date of approval Our public interest disclosure and awareness and mitigation of the risks laundering AML procedures and controls.
faced by the Company are key factors used The MLRO is also responsible for ensuring of this Annual Report.
However, in Internal controls whistleblowing policy encourages acknowledgement that the business and employees to raise concerns about anything to evaluate individual performance.
This adequate AML training for all staff.
The Terms of External the risks it faces are continually evolving that they suspect is fraudulent, corrupt, policy creates an environment which ensures MLRO specifically considers the risk of loss reference audit through financial crime and the controls in and as part of a process of continuous dangerous or seriously wrong.
They can excessive risk taking is not rewarded.
Organisational Internal structure and improvement, steps are being taken to raise concerns on a confidential basis, place to mitigate the risk of such loss.
Audit policies further embed internal controls and risk enabling proportionate and independent Employees also have the opportunity to management into business operations.
invest in regular Save As You Earn share Internal Audit schemes as we believe that nothing will Our Internal Audit function reports to the Internal control framework Group Group Risk We thoroughly investigate any allegations better encourage employees to look after Audit Committee on the effectiveness of Compliance Strategy The Board is responsible for the Groups of misconduct and irregularity and the long-term future of the Company than key internal controls.
consider the implications for our control being shareholders themselves.
Similarly, systems of internal control and risk Internal control management and for reviewing their environment.
Due to the nature of our exceptional performance by key employees External audit and regulatory supervision framework effectiveness.
The key features of which are business, we are subject to attempted fraud and senior managers will be rewarded with The majority of the activities of the the grant of executive share awards which Group, including the systems of business outlined in the chart above and detailed on a regular basis.
Strict processes and Group Management below: controls mean that we are able to identify we believe will not only incentivise but will control, are subject to supervision by Finance Information attacks and deal with them appropriately on also assist retention of key members of staff.
The Group is required on a regular basis to Terms of Reference a timely basis.
We are continually looking The Board operates within clearly defined at ways of making our clients transactions Our values and culture submit detailed prudential and statistical terms of reference, and it reserves certain with us more secure and have dedicated Any system of internal control is returns covering all areas of its business Our values Risk Regulatory and meets regularly with its supervisors, matters for its own consideration and resource within our Group Compliance dependent on the people operating it.
and culture Committee supervision and team whose focus is on managing client Our Culture defines what we expect from conducting the relationship in an open decision.
It has established appropriate Remuneration monitoring policy committees to oversee control activities.
We pride ourselves on the and constructive manner.
These committees also have clearly culture which exists within the Company.
Group Risk Strategy We have a one-firm mentality which In addition to the above, the Audit defined terms of reference.
The Board and Committee processes are fundamental to The Group Risk Strategy requires senior helps everyone take responsibility for the Committee also receives reports from our the effectiveness of our internal controls.
managers to identify, evaluate and manage whole of the business.
We have a saying external auditors.
42 43 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
