Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 current level and give due consideration to 2.
Composition of the Audit and Details on our Board members, including Corporate Governance Remuneration Committees other directorships, are on page 35. increasing the level if appropriate candidates The Code states that there should be at least are available when board vacancies arise.
3 independent non-executive directors on Independence of non-executive directors the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Code sets out the circumstances A copy of our full statement on Board For the period from 30 June 2011 to 3 that should be relevant to the Board in Diversity can be found on www.
co. uk October 2011 we did not comply with the determining whether each non-executive Our strategy is supported by embedded high standards of corporate governance and our Code.
The appointment on 3 October 2011 director is independent.
We have given Roles and responsibilities of the Board strong management team.
of Dharmash Mistry and Stephen Robertson due regard to provision B.
1.1 of the UK The Board has overall responsibility for the to the Audit Committee, and of Dharmash Corporate Governance Code and the Board management and performance of the Group.
Michael Evans - Chairman Mistry to the Remuneration Committee has concluded that both Dharmash Mistry It sets the strategic direction of the Group, The Group operates within a clear operating performance against delivery themselves on the integrity of financial brought us back into compliance.
and Stephen Robertson were independent on determines the appropriate risk appetite, governance framework, which is outlined of the agreed strategy information and that financial controls and appointment in October 2011, and that both and ensures that sufficient resources in systems of risk management are robust.
they and Chris Barling and Jonathan Bloomer talent and capital are in place to achieve the in the diagram below and set out in the engaging with shareholders: and The Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, is report that follows.
The Groups internal ensuring solid succession planning by required to review whether the above were independent directors throughout objectives set and ensures solid succession control and risk management framework effectively managing the Groups talent Certain responsibilities of the Board are statement reflects the Companys the financial year.
Michael Evans was planning for senior management.
It ensures that risk, regulatory and compliance is described below in the Internal and capital.
delegated to the Board Committees to assist compliance with the provisions of the UK independent on appointment as Chairman.
The executive directors are directly the Board in carrying out its functions and Corporate Governance Code specified for its Jonathan Bloomer is currently the Senior management are done appropriately.
The responsible for running the business to ensure independent oversight of internal review by the Listing Rules and to report if Independent Non-Executive Director.
Board reviews performance, including The Board is responsible for: operations.
The non-executive directors are control and risk management.
Other it does not reflect such compliance: no such that of the management team and senior defining, challenging and interrogating responsible for constructively challenging non-board committees form part of the report has been made.
Stephen Lansdown cannot be considered to executives.
It is the decision-making body the strategic direction of the Group proposals on strategy, scrutinising the Corporate Governance framework, but are be independent due to being co-founder and for all other matters deemed material to the determining risk appetite, and to performance of management, determining not formally appointed committees of the Statement about applying the principles of former executive Chairman of the Group.
Group in strategic, financial and reputational ensure risk, regulatory and compliance levels of remuneration and for succession Board.
These Committees feedback to the the Code terms.
The non-executive directors management within the Group is effective.
planning for the executive directors.
The main Board and Board Committees via an We have applied both the main principles The terms of reference of the non-executive constructively challenge the management monitoring financial, risk and non-executive directors must also satisfy executive director where appropriate.
and supporting principles set out in the directors are available for inspection at the team and supplement the executive Companys registered office and during the directors management expertise with a Code, by complying with the Code as reported above.
Further explanation of how Annual General Meeting.
diversity of business skills and experience.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc governance framework the principles and supporting principles The Directors are also responsible for have been applied is set out in this Corporate Diversity Hargreaves Lansdown Group plc Board Governance statement and in the Directors When assessing new appointments to our ensuring that obligations to shareholders Remuneration report.
A copy of the Code is Board, we review carefully the combined and other stakeholders are understood and External audit Audit Nomination Remuneration Board publicly available on the Financial Reporting skills and experience of the existing Board met, and that a satisfactory dialogue with Committee Committee Committee Committee Internal audit Councils website at www.
members to determine what characteristics shareholders is maintained.
All Directors are we are looking for from a new director.
equally accountable to our shareholders for Executive Committee Non-Board Committee THE BOARD Each member of the Hargreaves Lansdown the proper stewardship of our affairs and the board must have the skills, experience and success of the Company.
Board size, composition and changes during character that will enable each director to Investment Treasury Interest Rate Risk IT Steering Group the year contribute both individually, and as part of Except for a formal schedule of matters Committee Committee Committee Committee the team, to the effectiveness of the board reserved for decision by the Board, the Board As at 30 June 2012 there were nine Directors on the Board: the Chairman, four other and the success of the Company.
We believe has delegated the day-to-day management independent non-executive directors, one that diversity amongst board members of the Group to the Chief Executive who STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE is supported by the Executive Committee The timeline below indicates the composition of the Board throughout the period: non-independent non-executive director is of great value but that diversity is a far WITH THE UK CORPORATE and three executive directors.
The size wider subject than just gender.
We will give and senior executives.
The Chief Executive GOVERNANCE CODE 1.07.11 3.10.11 30.6.
12 and composition of the Board is regularly careful consideration to issues of overall and executive directors of the Group are responsible to the Board for developing During the year ended 30 June 2012, Non-compliant Compliant reviewed by the Board and, in particular the board balance and diversity in making new Hargreaves Lansdown plc confirms it has 1 Independent non-executive chairman 1 independent non-executive chairman Nominations Committee, to ensure that there appointments to the board.
strategy and the profitability and overall applied the principles of the UK Corporate 2 independent non-executive directors 4 independent non-executive directors is an appropriate and diverse mix of skills performance of the Group.
Governance Code the Code with the 1 non-independent non-executive 1 non-independent non-executive and experience.
As of today, the board numbers 9 in total, following exceptions: director director of which 3 are executive, 5 independent There is a documented schedule of matters 3 executive directors 3 executive directors During the year, the following changes were including the Chairman and 1 nonwhich are reserved for Board decision and 1.
Composition of the Board made: independent.
These matters are significant to 11% of the board and 25% of the Executive the Group as a whole due to their strategic, The Code states that at least half of the Dharmash Mistry was appointed as an Board, excluding the Chairman, should non-executive directors following the this date, the Board comprised of nine independent non-executive director on 3 Committee 33% when including the financial or reputational implications, and comprise independent non-executive publication of our annual report for the directors: the non-executive Chairman, October 2011 Company Secretary.
Subject to the include, but are not limited to, the agreement of strategies, recommendation of dividends, directors.
We did not comply until 3 year ended 30 June 2011, and appointed three executives, one non-independent Stephen Robertson was appointed as an requirements set out above, Hargreaves October 2011.
As reported last year, we Dharmash Mistry and Stephen Robertson non-executive and four independent nonindependent non-executive director on 3 Lansdown will aim to maintain female approval of acquisitions and major capital concluded our search for two independent to the Board on 3 October 2011.
October 2011. representation on the board at least at the expenditure.
In addition, it is only the Board 36 37 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
