Corporate Governance Introduction The Board The Board recognises the importance of a strong corporate Disclosure under Principle 5 of the AIC Code governance culture that meets the listing requirements.
The The Board currently consists of four non-executive Directors.
Board has put in place a framework for corporate governance In accordance with Principle 2 of the AIC Code all of the nonwhich it believes is appropriate for an investment company.
executives are independent of the Investment Adviser.
All Directors contribute to the Board discussions and debates.
The Board believes in providing as much transparency for The Chairman, Mr Picken, met the independence criteria of the investors as is reasonably possible.
It should be noted that AIC Code Principle 1 upon appointment and has continued to as an Investment Company, most of the Companys day to day meet this condition throughout his term of service.
Although responsibilities are delegated to third parties, the Company has not a requirement of the AIC Code, in accordance with guidance no employees and the Directors are non-executive.
in Principle 1, the Board has a Senior Independent Director, Mr Hallam, who was appointed as Senior Independent Director on 11 February 2010.
Being non-executive Directors, no Director AIC has a service contract with the Company.
The Company is a member of the Association of Investment The Articles of Incorporation currently provide that at least one Companies the AIC and has carefully considered the third of the Directors retire by rotation at each annual general principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate meeting.
If their number is not three or a multiple of three, the Governance the AIC Code and has decided to follow the AICs number nearest to but not exceeding one third, shall retire Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC from ofce.
In accordance with Principle 3 of the AIC Code, all 4 Guide.
The AIC Code and AIC Guide were updated in October Directors intend to retire and offer themselves up for re-election 2010 to take into account the newly issued UK Corporate at the forthcoming AGM in July.
The Board believes that long serving Directors should not be On 30 September 2010, the Financial Reporting Council provided automatically prevented from forming part of an independent the AIC with an updated endorsement letter to cover the fifth majority of the Board upon reaching nine years service.
In edition of the AIC Code.
The endorsement confirms that the accordance with Principle 4 of the Code, if a Director has AIC Code fully meets, for investment company boards, their served more than 9 years, the Board will consider the issue obligations in relation to the UK Corporate Governance Code of independence carefully on an annual basis as part of the and paragraph LR9.8.
Board self-evaluation and will disclose its conclusions in the Directors Reports.
Guernsey Regulatory Environment As the Company was formed in 2006 no Director has yet served for nine years or more.
A Director who retires at an annual On 30 September 2011 the Guernsey Financial Services general meeting may, if willing to act, be reappointed.
The Commission the Commission issued the Finance Sector Directors are not subject to automatic re-appointment.
The Code comprises Principles and Guidance, and provides a formal expression of good The Board believes that the balance of skills, experience, corporate practice against which shareholders, boards and the knowledge of the Groups investments and mixed length of Commission can better assess the governance exercised over service on the Board provides for a solid base in which the companies in Guernseys finance sector.
interest of investors will be served to a high standard.
The Board recommends the re-election of each Director and supporting The Commission recognises that the different nature, scale biographies, including length of service, are disclosed on pages and complexity of business will lead to differing approaches 46 to 47 of this annual report, together with a list of other public to meeting the Code.
Companies which report against the UK company directorships for each Director.
Corporate Governance Code or the Association of Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance are also deemed to meet this code.
The Directors have determined that the Company will continue as an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Scheme.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 53 Corporate Governance continued The Board continued Disclosure under Principle 5 of the AIC Code continued The Board meets at least four times a year and between these There was no Remuneration Committee in the year, as the fees formal meetings there is regular contact with the Investment for Directors was last reviewed in 2010 and a two year proposal Adviser, the Secretary and the Companys Brokers.
are kept fully informed of investment and financial controls, and During the year a further 14 ad-hoc Board Committee meetings other matters that are relevant to the business of the Company were held to deal with matters substantially of an administrative that should be brought to the attention of the Directors.
The nature and these were attended by those directors available Directors also have access, where necessary in the furtherance at the time.
In addition, there were 6 meetings to discuss and of their duties, to independent professional advice at approve the C Share issue which occurred in February and the expense of the Company.
The attendance record of Directors for the year to 31 March 2012 is set out below: Management Quarterly Board Engagement Remuneration Nomination Meetings Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 441 0 1 Meetings Attended: G Picken 4 N A 1 0 1 J Hallam 441 0 1 S Evans 441 0 1 C Russell 441 0 1 As previously mentioned, the Board has a breadth of experience relations, risk management, gearing, general administration relevant to the Company, and the Directors believe that any and compliance, peer group information and industry issues.
changes to the Boards composition can be managed without Performance Evaluation undue disruption.
With any new Director appointment to the Board an induction process is tailored to ensure that it would The Board evaluates its performance and considers the tenure be appropriate for the appointee.
Upon any such appointment and independence of each Director on an annual basis, and the new Director would be available to meet Shareholders believes that the mix of skills, experience and length of service upon request.
are appropriate to the requirements of the Company.
The annual evaluation for the year ended 31 March 2012 has been The Board considers agenda items laid out in the notice and completed by the Chairman and took the form of one to one agenda of meeting which are formally circulated to the Board in interview with each Director.
In addition, the Board engaged advance of the meeting as part of the Board papers.
Directors Trust Associates to conduct an external evaluation of the Board may request any agenda items to be added that they consider in relation to its skills and workings in accordance with Principle appropriate for Board discussion.
Additionally, each Director is 7 of the AIC Code.
The results of this evaluation process were required to inform the Board of any potential or actual conicts presented to and discussed by the Board and it was agreed of interest prior to Board discussion.
that the current composition of the Board and its Committees The Board constantly considers the Companys strategy with reected a suitable mix of skills and experience, and that regard to market conditions and feedback from shareholders.
the Board, as a whole, and its Committees were functioning The investment strategy, which is set out in the Companys latest effectively.
prospectus, is reviewed regularly with the Investment Adviser.
For the evaluation of the Chairman, the Senior Independent The primary focus at Board meetings is a review of investment Director discussed the results of the questionnaire with the performance and associated matters such as marketing investor Chairman prior to further distribution to the remaining Directors.
54 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Delegation of Responsibilities Audit Committee The Board has delegated the following areas of responsibility.
The Audit Committee has been in operation throughout the year.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr J Hallam, operates The day-to-day administration of the Company has been within clearly dened terms of reference and comprises all the delegated to Dexion Capital Guernsey Ltd in its capacity as Directors except for Mr G Picken.
It met four times in the year to Company Secretary and Administrator.
The Investment Adviser has two roles, Adviser to the Company The duties of the Audit Committee in discharging its and Operator of the Groups limited partnership which owns the responsibilities include reviewing the Annual and Interim Groups underlying investments.
Accounts, the system of internal controls, and the terms of appointment of the auditors together with their remuneration.
The role as Adviser includes preparing the semi-annual It is also the formal forum through which the auditors report valuations, the statutory accounts, the management accounts, to the Board of Directors and meets at least twice yearly.
The business plans, presenting results and information to objectivity of the auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committee shareholders, coordinating all service providers to the Group which also reviews the terms under which the external auditors and giving the Board general advice and feedback.
are appointed to perform non-audit services and the fees paid to them or their afliated rms overseas.
The role of Operator includes running the partnership and taking direct responsibility for the decisions relating to the The main duties of the Audit Committee are: day to day running of the Groups investment portfolio, the Groups debt facilities, swap arrangements, and the sourcing of considering and recommending to the Board for approval the new investments.
Members of the Investment Advisers asset contents of the half yearly and annual financial statements management team are appointed as directors of the Groups and reviewing the external auditors project companies and as part of their role in actively managing report thereon: the portfolio, they attend board meetings and make appropriate decisions.
Material decisions are referred back to the Investment reviewing the scope, results, cost effectiveness, Advisers investment committee for consideration and independence and objectivity of the external auditors: determination.
reviewing the draft valuation of the Groups investments prepared by the investment Adviser, receiving an independent Committees of the Board review of the valuation from a third party expert and making a The committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, the recommendation to the Board on the valuation of the Groups Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee, and a investments: Management Engagement Committee.
Terms of reference for reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the each Committee have been approved by the Board.
audit, audit related and non-audit fees payable to the external The Chairman and members of each committee as at 31 March auditors and the terms of their engagement: 2012 are as below: Management Audit Remuneration Nomination Engagement Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman Members Mr J Hallam Mr C Russell Mr G Picken Mrs S Evans Mrs S Evans Mrs S Evans Mrs S Evans Mr J Hallam Mr C Russell Mr J Hallam Mr J Hallam Mr G Picken Mr G Picken Mr C Russell Mr C Russell HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 55 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee continued Nomination Committee reviewing and approving the external auditors plan for the The main terms of reference of the committee are: following financial year: regularly review the structure, size and composition required of the Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting to any changes including skills, knowledge and experience in policies: and accordance with Principle 6 of the AIC Code : ensuring the standards and adequacy of the internal control give full consideration to succession planning for directors systems.
taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company: and The external auditors and the third party valuation experts are invited to attend the Audit Committee meetings at which be responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the annual and interim accounts are considered and at which the Board, candidates to ll Board vacancies as and when they they have the opportunity to meet with the Committee without arise.
representatives of the Investment Adviser being present.
The Nomination Committee has met once in the year to 31 In order to safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, March 2012 and has recommended to the Board that the current the Audit Committee ensures that any other advisory and or composition of the Board remains appropriate.
The Committee consulting services provided by the external auditors do not has succession planning on its agenda and has commenced conict with their statutory audit responsibilities.
discussions over the need, in due course, to recommend further appointments with succession planning in mind.
Advisory and or consulting services generally only covers reviews of interim financial statements, tax compliance and capital raising work.
Any non-audit services conducted by Remuneration Committee the auditor outside of these areas which are above 25,000 The terms of reference of the Committee are to determine and in aggregate in any year require the consent of the Audit agree the Board policy for the remuneration of the directors of Committee before being initiated.
The external auditor may not the Company, including the approval of any ad-hoc payments in undertake any work for the Company in respect of the following respect of additional corporate work required e. g. for the work matters preparation of the financial statements, valuations involved with the C Share issue.
used in financial statements, provision of investment advice, taking management decisions or advocacy work in adversarial Remuneration Policy situations.
The Remuneration Committee has received independent The Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its professional advice in respect of their roles, responsibilities cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the and fees.
auditors, with particular regard to non-audit fees.
Total fees paid All Directors of the Company are non-executive and as such amounted to 0.4m for the year ended 31 March 2012 of which there are: 0.1m related to the audit of the Group, 0.2m related to audit of the Groups project subsidiaries and other audit related services, No service contracts with the Company: and 0.1m was in respect of tax advisory and non-audit services.
No long-term incentive schemes: Notwithstanding such services the Audit Committee considers KPMG Channel Islands Limited to be independent of the No options or similar performance incentives.
Company and that the provision of such non-audit services is not a threat to the objectivity and independence of the conduct of the audit.
56 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 The Directors remuneration shall: At this meeting and in the Board meetings held during the year, the impacts arising from the change of ownership of the reect the responsibility, experience, time commitment and Investment Adviser were considered.
Both the Committee and position on the Board: the Board were pleased with the continued high levels of service provided by the Investment Adviser and the new resources allow the Chairman and Chairman of the Audit Committee and procedures employed to ll the gaps left by leaving the to be remunerated in excess of the remaining board ownership of the HSBC Group.
The Investment Adviser carried members to reect their increased roles of responsibility and out a detailed internal audit of its procedures in the year and has accountability: shared the findings of this work with the Board.
be paid quarterly in arrears: All Terms of Reference for Committees are available from the Company Secretary upon request.
include remuneration for additional, specic corporate work which shall be carefully considered and only become due and Internal Controls payable on completion of that work: and The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal will be reviewed by an independent professional consultant control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and the Board has with experience of Investment Companies and their fee therefore established an ongoing process designed to meet the structures, at least every three years.
particular needs of the Company in managing the risks to which The Remuneration Committee did not meet during the period to it is exposed.
31 March 2012 as the Company had engaged an independent The process is based on a risk-based approach to internal external evaluator, Trust Associates, whose report was presented control through a matrix which identies the key functions and discussed at a meeting held on 16 May 2012. carried out by the Investment Adviser and other key service The Committee has recommended that the fees are increased for providers, the various activities undertaken within those the coming year substantially in line with the Trust Associates functions, the risks associated with each activity and the recommendation and the Board has approved this increase controls employed to minimise those risks.
A residual risk in annual fees payable as set out in the Directors Report for rating is then applied.
The matrix is regularly updated and the the year to 31 March 2012.
The Board has decided to seek Board is provided with regular reports highlighting all material shareholder approval on these fees at the AGM on 25 July 2012. changes to the risk ratings and the action which has been, or is being taken.
By their nature these procedures will provide Management Engagement Committee a reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The terms of reference of this committee are to review the relationships between the Company and its main service At each Board meeting the Board also monitors the Groups providers, including their performance, compliance with their investment performance in comparison to its stated objective contracts, and levels of fees paid.
Recommendations from the and it reviews the Groups activities since the last Board meeting Committees review are given to the Board for consideration to ensure that the Investment Adviser and the Operator adhere and action.
to the agreed investment policy and approved investment guidelines.
The Management Engagement Committee met once in the period to 31 March 2012, and reviewed the performance of the Further, at each Board meeting, the Board receives reports key service providers to the Group and the Company.
No material from the Company Secretary and Administrator in respect of weaknesses were identied, some recommendations were compliance matters and duties performed by them on behalf conveyed to certain providers, and the recommendation to the of the Company.
Board was that the current arrangements are appropriate and provide good quality services and advice to the Company and the Group.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 57 Corporate Governance continued Internal Controls continued The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function By way of assisting shareholders to understand our portfolio and it has decided that the systems and procedures employed of investments, we have held site visits to some of the Groups by the Investment Adviser and the Secretary, including their investments.
The presentations and case studies from these own internal review processes, and the work carried out by visits are available from the Companys website www.
com the Groups external auditors, provide sufficient assurance In addition, members of the Board met some shareholders at that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards the an evening event held in London in September and a lunch in Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function Edinburgh in October, arranged by the Broker.
It is the Boards specic to the Group is therefore considered unnecessary.
intention to continue to meet with shareholders periodically to The Board recognises that these control systems can only be facilitate open two way communication on the development of designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to the Company.
achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, but The Company reports formally to Shareholders twice a year not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, and a proxy voting card for the AGM is sent to shareholders and relies on the operating controls established by both the with the Annual Report and Accounts.
Results of Extraordinary Company Administrator and the Investment Adviser.
and Annual General Meetings are announced by the Company The Investment Adviser prepares management accounts and promptly after the relevant meeting.
Additionally, the Interim updates business forecasts on a quarterly basis, which allow Management Statements and the current information provided the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its to eligible Shareholders on an on-going basis through the performance.
Companys website assist in keeping Shareholders informed.
The Secretary and Registrar monitor the voting of the The Board and the Investment Adviser have agreed clearly Shareholders and proxy voting is taken into consideration when dened investment criteria, return targets, risk appetite, and votes are cast at the Annual General Meeting.
Reports on these issues, including operating performance, cash projections, and investment valuations, are Shareholders may contact the Directors via the Company Secretary, whose contact details are found on page 112 of the submitted to the Board at each quarterly meeting.
Relations with Shareholders AIC Code Principle 19 The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and places great importance on communication with its shareholders.
The Investment Adviser produces a quarterly factsheet which is available on the Companys website.
Senior members of the Investment Adviser make themselves available at all reasonable times to meet with principal shareholders and key sector analysts.
Feedback from these meetings is provided to the Board on a regular basis.
The Board is also kept fully informed of all relevant market commentary on the Company by the Investment Adviser, the Companys Broker, and the Companys Financial PR agency.
58 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
