HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Internal control Employee issues function management committees, for application throughout HSBC.
These are Employee engagement describes employees supplemented by operating standards set by emotional and intellectual commitment to their functional and local management as required for organisation and its success and is critical to the the type of business and geographical location long-term ability of the Group to deliver the highest of each subsidiary.
Our Global People Survey is carried out every other year and shows Delegation of authority within limits set by that employees value our commitment to sustainable the Board.
Authority to operate the various business practices and view us as being a leader in subsidiaries and responsibilities for financial this regard.
In the latest survey, taken in 2011, performance against plans and for capital 81% of colleagues said they were satisfied with the expenditure are delegated to their respective actions HSBC is taking to embed sustainability e. g. chief executive officers within limits set by the environmental and social issues into the way we Board.
Delegation of authority from the Board run our business.
to individuals requires those individuals to maintain a clear and appropriate apportionment Sustainability risk of significant responsibilities and to oversee the Our approach to managing sustainability risk is establishment and maintenance of systems of detailed in the Appendix to Risk on page 280. control appropriate to the business.
The appointment of executives to the most senior positions within HSBC requires the approval of Internal control the Board.
The Directors are responsible for internal control Risk identification and monitoring.
Systems in HSBC and for reviewing its effectiveness.
and procedures are in place in HSBC to identify, Procedures have been designed for safeguarding control and report on the major risks including assets against unauthorised use or disposal: for credit, market, liquidity, capital, financial maintaining proper accounting records: and for the management, model, reputational, pension, reliability and usefulness of financial information strategic, sustainability, operational including used within the business or for publication.
Such accounting, tax, legal, compliance, fiduciary, procedures are designed to manage and mitigate the information, external fraud, internal fraud, risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can political, physical, business continuity, systems only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance operations, project and people risk and Islamic against material misstatement, errors, losses or fraud.
Exposure to these risks is The procedures also enable HSBC Holdings to monitored by risk management committees, discharge its obligations under the Handbook of asset and liability committees and executive Rules and Guidance issued by the FSA, HSBCs committees in subsidiaries and, for the Group, in lead regulator.
Risk Management Meetings RMM of the The key procedures that the Directors have GMB which are chaired by the Group Chief established are designed to provide effective internal Risk Officer.
RMM meets each month except control within HSBC and accord with the Internal August to address asset, liability and risk Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the management issues.
HSBCs operational risk Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting profile and the effective implementation of the Council.
Such procedures for the ongoing Groups operational risk management identification, evaluation and management of the framework is monitored by the Global significant risks faced by HSBC have been in place Operational Risk and Control Committee throughout the year and up to 4 March 2013, the date GORCC, which reports to the RMM.
Model of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts risks are monitored by the Model Oversight 2012.
In the case of companies acquired during the Committee which also reports to the RMM.
The year, the internal controls in place are being minutes of the GMB meetings and the RMM are reviewed against HSBCs benchmarks and integrated provided to members of the GAC, the GRC and into HSBCs processes.
HSBCs key internal control procedures include Changes in market conditions practices.
the following: Processes are in place to identify new risks arising from changes in market Global standards.
Functional, operating, conditions practices or customer behaviours, financial reporting and certain management which could expose HSBC to heightened risk reporting standards are established by global 332 of loss or reputational damage.
During 2012, global functions and certain legal entities.
attention was focused on: Financial reporting.
The Group financial severe economic slowdown in mature reporting process for preparing the consolidated economies impacting global growth: Annual Report and Accounts 2012 is controlled eurozone members departure from the using documented accounting policies and currency union: reporting formats, supported by a chart of increased geopolitical risk: accounts with detailed instructions and guidance emerging market slowdown: on reporting requirements, issued by Group macroeconomic risks within developed Finance to all reporting entities within the economies: Group in advance of each reporting period end.
regulatory developments affecting our The submission of financial information from business model and Group profitability: each reporting entity to Group Finance is subject regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions to certification by the responsible financial and requirements relating to conduct of officer, and analytical review procedures at business and financial crime negatively reporting entity and Group levels.
affecting our results and brand: Responsibility for risk management.
dispute risk: Management of global businesses and global regulatory commitments and consent orders functions are primarily accountable for including the Deferred Prosecution managing, measuring and monitoring their Agreements: risks and controls.
Processes consistent with challenges to achieving our strategy in a the Three Lines of Defence principle are in downturn: place to ensure weaknesses are escalated to internet crime and fraud: senior management and addressed.
social media risk: level of change creating operational IT operations.
Centralised functional control complexity and heightened operational risk: is exercised over all IT developments and information risk: and operations.
Common systems are employed for model risk.
similar business processes wherever practicable.
Periodic strategic plans are Functional management.
Global functional prepared for global businesses, global functions management is responsible for setting policies, and certain geographical regions within the procedures and standards for the following framework of the Groups strategy.
Annual risks: credit, market, liquidity, capital, financial management, model, reputational, pension, Operating Plans, informed by detailed analysis of risk appetite describing the types and strategic, sustainability and operational risk quantum of risk that we are prepared to take in including accounting, tax, legal, compliance, executing our strategy, are prepared and adopted fiduciary, information security, security and by all major HSBC operating companies and set fraud, systems and people risk.
Authorities to out the key business initiatives and the likely enter into credit and market risk exposures are financial effects of those initiatives.
delegated with limits to line management of Group companies.
The concurrence of the Disclosure Committee.
The Disclosure appropriate global function is required, however, Committee reviews material public disclosures to credit proposals with specified higher risk made by HSBC Holdings for any material characteristics.
Credit and market risks are errors, misstatements or omissions.
The measured and reported on in subsidiaries and membership of the Disclosure Committee, aggregated for review of risk concentrations on which is chaired by the Group Company a Group-wide basis.
Secretary, includes the heads of Global Finance, Legal, Risk and Compliance, Communications, CEO Attestation process.
Global Operational Investor Relations and Internal Audit functions Risk coordinate the annual CEO Attestation and representatives from the principal regions process under which the chief executive officer and global businesses.
The integrity of of each of the Groups material subsidiaries disclosures is underpinned by structures and confirms that the internal control framework processes within the Finance and Risk functions applicable to that subsidiary has been assessed that support expert and rigorous analytical and any significant open issues have been review of financial reporting complemented by identified, with action plans in place to address certified reviews by heads of global businesses, weaknesses.
The remediation of these issues is 333 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
