Corporate Governance Board of Directors Richard Burrows 67 Sir Nicholas Scheele 69 Nicandro Durante 56 Ben Stevens 53 Chairman Senior Independent Director Chief Executive Finance Director and Chief Information Officer Irish British US Brazilian Italian British Nationality Chairman since November 2009: Senior Independent Director since Chief Executive since March 2011.
Finance Director since 2008: Position Non-Executive Director since 2008: Non-Executive Director since additionally Chief Information September 2009: and Chairman of 2005: and member of the Corporate Officer since 2010. the Nominations Committee.
Social Responsibility and Nominations Committees.
Will retire at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
NED and member of the Remuneration Chairman of the Cambridge-MIT No external appointments.
Key Committee of Rentokil Initial plc: a Institute, Key Safety Systems, Inc. appointments Supervisory Board Member at USA and Global Metalsa SA fide CV Carlsberg A S: NED and member of Mexico and a Director of Grupo the Audit, Remuneration and Health, Proeza Mexico.
Safety, Environment and Community Committees of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC: and member of the Trilateral Commission.
Chief Executive of Irish Distillers: President and Chief Operating COO from 2008: Regional Director for Senior Group finance and general Skills and Co-Chief Executive of Pernod Ricard: Officer of Ford Motor Company: Africa and Middle East and member of management roles: Head of Merger experience Governor of the Bank of Ireland: knighted in 2001 for services to the Management Board from 2006: Integration following the merger with Fellow of the Institute of Chartered British exports: and Chancellor of senior general management roles in Rothmans: Chairman and Managing Accountants of Ireland.
Warwick University from 2002 Brazil including President of Souza Director of the Pakistan Tobacco until 2008.
Cruz and in the UK and Hong Kong: Company and British American Tobacco has wide experience in senior Russia: appointed to the Management international finance and management Board in 2001 as Development Director roles within the Group.
Holds a degree becoming Director, Europe in 2004. in finance, economics and business Holds a BA Hons.
Manchester University and an MBA from Manchester Business School.
John Daly 56 Karen fide Segundo 66 Ann Godbehere 57 Robert Lerwill 61 Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Irish Dutch Canadian British British Nationality Chief Operating Officer since 2010.
Non-Executive Director since 2007: Non-Executive Director since Non-Executive Director since 2005: Position Chair of the Corporate Social October 2011: Member of the Audit, Chairman of the Audit Committee: and Responsibility Committee: and Nominations and Remuneration member of the Nominations member of the Nominations Committees.
Will retire at the conclusion Committee.
Non-Executive Director of Reynolds NED and member of Audit & Risk, NED, member of the Nominations No key appointments.
Nomination, Remuneration and Committee and Chair of the Audit appointments Safety & Sustainability Committees Committee of Rio Tinto plc: NED, of Lonmin plc: Supervisory Board member of the Audit Committee and Member and member of the Finance Chair of the HR and Compensation & Investment Committee at E. ON Committee of UBS AG: NED, member of SE: and Member of the Board and the Nominations and Risk Committees member of the Audit Committee of and Chair of the Audit Committee of Pyry Oyj.
Prudential plc: NED of Arden Holdings Ltd, Atrium Underwriting Group Ltd and Atrium Underwriters Ltd. Marketing Director, P. J. Carroll & Senior executive roles before Chief Financial Officer of Swiss Re Chartered Accountant: a former Skills and Company Ireland : senior retiring as CEO Shell International Group: Chief Financial Officer of Director of Cable & Wireless plc and experience management roles in Europe and Renewables and President Shell Northern Rock during the initial WPP Group PLC: Chief Executive of Asia: and Area Director Middle East Hydrogen in 2005.
Holds a phase of its public ownership: and Aegis Group plc until 2008: NED of & North Africa.
Appointed to the Masters degree in Law from Fellow of the Certified General Transcom Worldwide S. A. until May Management Board as Regional Leiden University, an MBA from Accountants of Canada.
2012: and Chairman of Synergy Health Director for Asia-Pacific in October Michigan State University and plc until June 2012.
Holds a Diploma in Marketing is a Council Member of the Anglo and an International MBA.
48 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Attendance at Board meetings in 2012 Name Attended Eligible to attend Richard Burrows 6 6 2 Sir Nicholas Scheele 6 6 Nicandro Durante 6 6 Ben Stevens 6 6 Christine Morin-Postel 66 Dr Gerard Murphy 57 John Daly 6 6 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Karen fide Segundo 6 6 1 Ann Godbehere 5 6 French Irish Nationality 2 Robert Lerwill 6 6 Non-Executive Director since 2007: Non-Executive Director since 2009: Position Christine Morin-Postel 6 6 member of the Corporate Social Chairman of the Remuneration Responsibility, Nominations and Committee: and member of the Dr Gerry Murphy 6 6 Remuneration Committees.
Kieran Poynter 6 6 become Senior Independent Director at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
1 Anthony Ruys 5 6 NED of Royal Dutch Shell PLC.
Member and Chairman of the Key Executive Committee of The Notes: appointments Blackstone Group International 1 Ann Godbehere and Anthony Ruys were both unable to attend one of Partners LLP: Board member of Merlin Entertainments Group, Jack Wolfskin, the scheduled meetings each due to a long-standing prior engagement.
United Biscuits and Michaels Stores.
2 Robert Lerwill and Sir Nicholas Scheele will retire as Non-Executive Directors at the conclusion of the AGM on 25 April 2013.
The Board held six meetings in 2012.
All of these were scheduled.
Chief Executive of Socit Gnrale Chief Executive Officer of Kingfisher Skills and One meeting was held off-site over two days, and was devoted to fide Belgique, Executive Viceplc, Carlton Communications plc, experience strategy.
Six Board meetings are scheduled in 2013.
President and member of the Exel plc, Greencore Group plc: Executive Committee of Suez and senior operating roles at Diageo plc.
Chairman and CEO of Crdisuez Holds a BSc and PhD in food The Board of Directors is shown as at the date of this Annual Report.
S. A. : studied political sciences and technology from University College graduated from the Institut fide Cork and an MBS in Marketing from Contrle Gestion.
Kieran Poynter 62 Anthony Ruys 65 Dr Richard Tubb 53 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director British Dutch US Nationality Non-Executive Director since 2010: Non-Executive Director since 2006: Non-Executive Director since Position member of the Audit, Nominations member of the Audit and 28 January 2013: Member of the and Remuneration Committees.
Corporate Social Responsibility Will become Chairman of the and Nominations Committees.
Audit Committee at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
NED and Chairman of the Audit and Chairman of the Supervisory Board Brigadier General retired, US Key Compliance Committee of of NV Luchthaven Schiphol NL : Air Force: White House Physician appointments International Consolidated Airlines member of the Supervisory Board Emeritus: member of the Board of Group S. A. : NED, member of the of JANIVO Holdings BV NL : and Reference for Project Rescue and the Nomination, Remuneration and Risk NED of the Groups Indian associate, Travel Medicine Advisory Board of Committees and Chairman of the ITC Limited.
Shoreland, Inc: advisory position Audit & Compliance Committee of at Lonsdale: and independent F&C Asset Management plc: consultant for the Boston Chairman and NED of Nomura Consulting Group.
International PLC: and NED of The Royal Automobile Club Ltd. Chartered Accountant: Chairman Marketing Director and Chairman White House Physician from 1995 to Skills and and Senior Partner of of various Unilever subsidiaries: 2009, including Physician to the experience  until 2008: member of Executive Board, President of the United States from served on the Presidents Committee Vice Chairman and Chairman 2002 until retirement in 2009: Clinical of the Confederation of British of Heineken.
Holds a degree in Assistant Professor at the Uniformed Industry and as member of an Commercial Law from University of Services University: various medical advisory committee for the Utrecht and a Masters degree from positions in the US Air Force.
Awarded Chancellor of the Exchequer.
his Doctor of Medicine in 1985.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 49 Corporate Governance Management Board The Management Board, chaired by the Chief Executive, is responsible for overseeing the implementation by the Groups operating subsidiaries of the strategy and policies set by the Board, and for creating the framework for their successful day-to-day operation.
Alongside the Finance Director and Chief Operating Officer, its other members comprise 11 senior Group executives listed here.
The Management Board held 13 meetings in 2012 11 in 2011, including two off-site strategy meetings.
Members of the Management Jack Bowles 49 Board regularly attend meetings of the Board, particularly when the Groups strategy and budget are being discussed.
Nationality French In February 2013, the Board approved the creation of a new role on the Position Director, Asia-Pacific Management Board in line with the Groups strategy of pursuing and developing a pipeline of next generation nicotine products to complement its core tobacco business.
Des Naughton, Group Operations Director, has been appointed to the new role of Managing Director Next-Generation Products, encompassing Nicoventures and CN Creative.
Alan Davy, Group Head of Supply Chain, will join the Management Board as Group Operations Director.
He joined the Group in 1988, and has held various roles in manufacturing, supply chain, and general management.
These changes will take effect from 1 March 2013.
Jean-Marc Lvy 50 Principal Management Board role Swiss Nationality Developing Group strategy for approval by the Board Group Marketing Director Position Developing guidelines for regions and functions on issues affecting the Group Ensuring regional and functional strategies are effective and aligned Reviewing regional and functional budgets Monitoring Group operating performance Managing the central functions Overseeing the management and development of talent Naresh Sethi 46 Nationality Indian Australian Position Director, Western Europe 50 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Alan Davy 49 Giovanni Giordano 47 Andrew Gray 48 Nationality British Italian US Brazilian British Position Group Operations Director Group Human Resources Director, Eastern Europe, from 1 March 2013 Director Middle East and Africa Des Naughton 46 Ricardo Oberlander 49 Dr David OReilly 46 British Brazilian British Nationality Group Operations Director Director, Americas Group Scientific Director Position Managing Director Next Generation Products from 1 March 2013 Kingsley Wheaton 40 Neil Withington 56 Nationality British British Position Group Corporate and Group Legal and Security Regulatory Affairs Director Director and General Counsel British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 51
