Separate and distinct roles Independent Corporate Governance Leadership and governance The Board Principal Board role The Board is collectively responsible for the Groups vision and Approving Group strategy strategic direction, its values, and its governance.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance of the business Approving Group policies and the Groups long-term success.
It provides the leadership Approving major corporate activities necessary for the Group to meet its performance objectives Approving Annual Report within a framework of internal controls.
Agreeing governance framework Individual roles Agreeing Group budget Agreeing Board succession plan Chairman Reviewing risk management and internal control Leadership of the Board Ensure Board effectiveness Reviewing Periodic Financial Reports Facilitate contribution of Directors Declaring interim recommending final dividend Set Board agenda Safeguard shareholder interests Ensure effective shareholder engagement Collective decision making The Chairman seeks a consensus at Board meetings but, if Chief Executive necessary, decisions are taken by majority.
If any Director has Overall responsibility for performance concerns on any issue that cannot be resolved, such concerns are Leadership of the Group noted in the Board minutes.
No such concerns arose in 2012.
Stewardship of Group assets If required, the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Chairman, Enable planning and execution meet prior to Board meetings and without the Executive Directors of objectives and strategies present.
The Executive and the Non-Executive Directors also meet annually, led by the Senior Independent Director and without the Non-Executive Directors NEDs Chairman present, in order to discuss the Chairmans performance.
Help develop strategy Challenge management proposals Board programme Scrutinise performance of management The annual Board programme is designed to enable the Board Monitor reporting of performance to drive strategy forward across all the elements of the Groups Available to meet with major shareholders business model, which is set out in the business review.
The key activities of the Board in 2012, grouped under the Groups four Senior Independent Director SID strategy pillars, is set out in the accompanying table.
The Boards Lead review of Chairmans performance strategic priorities for 2013 are identified within the key Preside at Board in Chairmans absence performance indicators set out in the business review.
Intermediary for other Directors Available to meet with major shareholders The Board devotes considerable attention to corporate governance matters relating to the Groups internal controls and compliance activities.
A good example of this in 2012 was the Boards review Board Committees and approval of a revised Group Statement of Delegated Authorities, The Board has established four principal Board Committees, to by which the Board ensures that it is provided with sufficient which it has delegated certain responsibilities.
They are the Audit oversight of the Groups operations, while acknowledging Committee, the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee, individual Group companies autonomy and the flexibility the Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
needed in a modern global business.
The roles, membership and activities of these Committees are described in detail in their individual reports in this section.
Each Committee has its own terms of reference, available at www.
com governance, which are reviewed and updated regularly to ensure their alignment with best practice.
The Board has also established a Corporate Committee, comprising the three Executive Directors, which is responsible for reviewing issues prior to their referral to the Board and its principal Committees.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 47 Oversight Leadership
