Corporate Governance Board effectiveness Balance and diversity Balance of Non-Executive Directors Diverse skills and expertise and Executive Directors The Board appreciates the benefit of diversity in all its forms, within its own membership and at all levels of the Group.
Our NonChairman 1 Executive Directors come from a broad range of industry and Executive Directors 3 professional backgrounds, with varied experience and expertise Independent Non-Executive Directors 9 aligned to the needs of the business.
Short biographies of the Directors, including details of relevant skills and experience, and nationalities are set out in the Board of Directors pages in this section.
Gender diversity Length of tenure of Women made up a quarter of our Board in 2012.
This meets the Non-Executive Directors 2015 aspirational target for female representation on FTSE 100 Boards, set by Lord Davies in his recent report on the issue.
0-3 years 3 The Board recognises the challenge and is encouraging initiatives 3-6 years 3 to improve gender diversity in the management levels below the 6-9 years 3 Board.
We will report on our progress in more detail next year, in line with new diversity reporting requirements for 2013.
Independence and conflicts of interest Gender split of Directors Independence The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors are independent, as they have not previously been involved in the Male 10 management of the Group and are free from any business or Female 3 other relationships that could interfere materially with, or appear to affect, their judgement.
9 throughout 2012 Conflicts of interest The Board has formal procedures for managing compliance with the conflicts of interest provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Nationality Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to authorise situational conflicts.
Directors are required to give advance notice 4 of any conflict issues to the Company Secretary, and these are considered either at the next Board meeting or, if the timing requires it, at a meeting of the Boards Conflicts Committee.
3 Each year, the Board reviews all previously authorised situational conflicts, considering each one afresh.
Directors are excluded from the quorum and vote in respect of any matters in which they have an interest.
2 No material conflicts were reported by Directors in 2012.
Following Christine Morin-Postels disclosure in 2011 of a potential conflict of interest in respect of the Groups exposure to clean-up costs for 1 historic pollution to the Lower Fox River, Wisconsin by virtue of her then non-executive directorship of a shareholder in Sequana SA, a French company involved in the dispute, she resigned from the 0 Audit Committee with effect from 21 February 2012.
She continued to absent herself from any discussion of the matter at Board American Brazilian British Canadian Dutch French Irish meetings in 2012.
She did not seek re-election to the board of Sequanas shareholder, and her directorship of that company therefore ceased on 28 May 2012.
52 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012
