48 Directors report continued Induction and continuing professional development Board evaluation Non-executive directors are provided with a full and formal induction.
This covers During 2011 12, an evaluation of the From the evaluation, the directors believe training and briefings, including directors board, the board committees and their expertise was well drawn on during duties and the UK listing regime, an the Chairman was conducted using the year and is valued by the business.
overview of the business, its operations, Lintstock as the external facilitator.
In evaluating how the board manages risk and regulatory matters, governance, Lintstock did not provide any other its time, the following items have been finance and investor relations.
advisory services to ICAP during the identified as requiring further board year.
Interviews were conducted with oversight and have been included in All directors receive regular briefings on each board member and the Group the board schedule for 2012 13: changes and developments in the Groups Company Secretary and included business and on any relevant legislative feedback from members of the GEMG.
increase efficiency from the and regulatory changes from senior The objective of the evaluation was to business model: management and external advisors provide insight into the effectiveness the regulatory environment: as appropriate.
During the year ICAP of the board and to identify actions HR strategy and succession planning: launched its i-Swap platform and an for improving performance.
IT strategy: i-Swap demonstration was included in the Brazilian business: the directors training for the year.
The outcome of the review confirmed key customer analysis including the changes in the boards composition customer perception: and Nomination Committee were highly effective.
The committee members are appointed by the board and comprise a majority of independent non-executive directors.
The responsibilities of the Nomination Audit and Risk Committee The chairman of the committee is appointed Committee are described in its terms The Audit and Risk Committee members by the board and is required to be either the of reference available on the Groups are all independent non-executive Chairman of the board or an independent website, www.
directors, appointed by the board on non-executive director.
The Chairman of the the recommendation of the Nomination board does not chair the committee when During the year, the committee met Committee.
The board is satisfied that the it is dealing with the matter of succession to consider the appointment of a new chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee of the Chairman of the board.
group chief operating officer resulting in the and the committee collectively have appointment of Mark Price in October 2011. recent and relevant financial experience The following table sets out the directors As part of this process, the Nomination that enables it to function effectively who served on the Nomination Committee Committee considered the responsibilities and discharge its responsibilities.
during the year and their committee of the Group Chief Operating Officer and meeting attendance.
what his immediate priorities should be.
As The following table sets out the directors a result, it was agreed that this role should who served on the Audit and Risk Nomination Committee meetings not have responsibility for any operational Committee during the year and their Total Attended business areas and, as such, changes to committee meeting attendance.
Charles Gregson 2 2 GEMG reporting lines were made.
chairman Audit and Risk Committee meetings Michael Spencer 2 1 Total Attended As a result of the evaluation of the Diane Schueneman 2 1 John Sievwright 8 8 Nomination Committee, the following John Sievwright 2 2 chairman priorities were identified for 2012 13: Robert Standing 2 2 Diane Schueneman 8 8 review and revise the succession plan Robert Standing 8 8 for executive directors and senior External advisors and individuals such executives: and as the Global Head of HR are invited review the balance of executive to attend meetings when appropriate.
ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Directors report 49 Other attendees at Audit and Risk Committee is divided between audit and risk matters.
The board believes that a sound control meetings include: In addition to the regular topics detailed environment and robust risk management in the terms of reference, the committee are fundamental to ICAPs success.
The Regular Attends as also discussed a number of additional Audit and Risk Committee, as delegated attendee required matters during the year including: by the board, sets the overall risk strategy Chairman of the board risk, compliance and internal audit charters: and risk appetite methodology for the Group Finance assessment of the risk department Group.
The Audit and Risk Committee is also Director and the Global Chief Risk Officer: responsible for approving the appointment, Group Chief Operating review of the internal audit function dismissal and compensation of the Global Officer leading to the appointment of KPMG Chief Risk Officer, thereby reinforcing the Global Chief Risk Officer as the internal auditors: independence of the risk function.
Group Company review of the effectiveness of Secretary the external auditors: Due to the continuing increase in Group Financial internal audit transition plan: responsibilities of the Audit and Risk Controller review of the ICAAP document: Committee, the board has decided to Group General Counsel regional risk updates: separate these responsibilities and form Group Head half and full-year reviews of an Audit Committee and a Risk Committee.
of Compliance the compliance function: These are effective from May 2012.
Head of Internal Audit clearing and settlement agents risk review: External auditors presentation from business The Audit and Risk Committee has Group Head of Tax on control issues: and delegated the day-to-day risk management and Treasury goodwill impairment review.
of the Group to two executive committees, Regional chief financial officers the GOC and the GRACC, each of which Regional heads As a result of the evaluation of the meet at least six times a year.
The GOC of compliance effectiveness of the Audit and Risk focuses on issues of operational capability The chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, the following priorities across regions and businesses including Committee maintains contact with attendees were identified for 2012 13: operational, strategic, reputational, legal throughout the year.
The committee meets enhanced oversight of the new internal and compliance matters.
The GRACCs with the external auditors and the Head of audit function to ensure its effectiveness: responsibilities are centred on the Internal Audit without any executive director technology audits: and monitoring of liquidity, credit, market and or member of management present.
provision of support to the new financial risks.
Details of the committees Global Chief Risk Officer.
responsibilities are shown on page 46.
The agenda for committee meetings Risk governance Direct reporting line Delegated authority Board Audit and Risk Group Chief Global Executive Committee Executive O cer Management Group Group Chief Group General Group Risk and Global Operating External Audit Internal Audit Operating O cer Counsel Capital Committee Committee Group Head of Global Chief Compliance Risk O cer 50 Directors report continued The Audit and Risk Committee, the GOC Risk control and structures, processes and methodologies and the GRACC have terms of reference management framework operating within the Group.
that require all aspects of the Groups The significant risks of the Group are risk management activities to be continually monitored, assessed and A key tenet of the three lines of defence regularly reviewed.
managed by operating the three lines of model is that the senior management of defence model for the risk management the Group, in particular those senior The Global Chief Risk Officer, Group Head and control of the businesses.
managers with responsibility for overseeing of Compliance and Head of Internal Audit the front, middle and back office functions, are members of the GOC, the Global Chief The first line of defence comprises senior are responsible for all control-related Risk Officer is a member of the GRACC and business and executive management who business issues and have full accountability the Group Head of Compliance is a standing own the risks and controls for their respective for the management of the risks in their attendee of the GRACC.
businesses and retain full accountability businesses, within the limits and the control for control-related business issues.
environment established by the Group.
All In addition to the Audit and Risk Committee, staff and managers are required to take a the GOC and the GRACC, all lines of The second line of defence comprises prudent approach to risk taking and to business and regions have risk committees the compliance and risk management regularly review the effectiveness of their which are responsible for supervising risk functions.
These functions are responsible control environment.
levels in their respective businesses and for the Groups risk framework and regions and acting as the interface between infrastructure and identify, monitor, The Groups independent control functions front office management and the Group mitigate and report key risks.
risk, compliance and internal audit are risk function.
responsible for ensuring that the control The internal audit function provides the environment is fit for purpose and able to third line of defence by making a systematic identify and escalate to senior management and disciplined evaluation of the business, the Groups key risks and to mitigate these control and governance frameworks, risks where appropriate.
Governance Perform oversight The board sets tone from the top The board establishes risk appetite and strategy The Audit and Risk Committee approves the risk management framework, methodologies, overall policies, roles and responsibilities Executive management leverages risk information into a decision-making process and accepts, transfers or mitigates identied risks Executive management evaluates business activities on a risk-adjusted basis Third line of defence Monitor Internal audit and advise Provides independence testing and verication of ecacy of corporate standard and business line compliance Validates the overall risk framework Provides assurance that the risk management process is functioning as designed and identies improvement opportunities Second line of defence Interpret Compliance Design Risk management and develop Provides interpretation of regulations and facilitate Designs and deploys the overall risk management and disseminates to business units framework across the organisation Monitor Monitors compliance with regulations Monitor Monitors adherence to framework and strategy and report Develops and monitors policies and procedures and report Compiles risk across business units and escalates Tests risk assessment based compliance risk and control issues to senior management Advises on regulatory issues and provides training Performs aggregated risk reporting First line of defence Business unit: process and risk owners Owns the risk management process Identies, manages, mitigates and reports on operational risk Tracks loss data ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Directors report 51 The Group has created an integrated A number of qualitative and quantitative and surveillance, anti-money laundering control framework for the three key measures are monitored by risk management compliance and the reporting and escalation control functions of risk, compliance and to ensure that the businesses risks remain of potential and crystallised risks.
In providing assurance as within acceptable tolerances.
Metrics to the effectiveness of the system of that are robust, easy to explain to the The Groups compliance department internal controls to the GOC, the Audit businesses and directly related to their undertakes an annual risk assessment and Risk Committee and the board, the risk profiles are preferred over complicated in each region as the basis for the annual three key control functions will, where and unintuitive solutions.
Examples of such compliance plan for those legal entities, appropriate and on a planned basis, metrics include key risk indicators, scenario desks, offices, business and operating units combine resources, skills and technical analysis and credit exposure metrics.
Using which will be the subject of compliance expertise in the conduct of monitoring, these measures, the Group produces a review and examination.
ICAPs compliance oversight and review work.
number of risk intelligence reports which risk management framework is risk based, are disseminated widely among the Groups which means that ICAP assesses and ranks Risk management managers, the GEMG and the board.
its compliance risks and prioritises its The Groups risk management function compliance resources accordingly on a operates under the mandate set by the Compliance management Group, regional and business unit basis.
The Global Chief Risk Officer reports The Groups compliance department reports to the Group Chief Operating Officer.
to the Group Head of Compliance who in turn Internal audit Under the leadership of regional heads, risk reports to the Group Chief Operating Officer.
The board is responsible for reviewing the departments support the electronic and Dedicated compliance departments support effectiveness of the internal control system post trade risk and information businesses the businesses operating in EMEA, the which management is responsible for on a global basis and the regional voice Americas and Asia Pacific regions, each maintaining and it does this through the businesses and are members of business under the leadership of regional heads of Audit and Risk Committee.
The day-to-day level and regional risk committees.
The compliance who are members of regional and business of the Group is managed through Global Chief Risk Officer is a member of business level risk committees.
The Group a system of financial, operational and the GOC and GRACC and is a standing Head of Compliance is a member of the compliance controls and monitored by a attendee of the Audit and Risk Committee.
GOC and is a standing attendee of both the series of risk management systems.
Internal GRACC and the Audit and Risk Committee.
controls are designed to manage rather Day-to-day management of risk and its than eliminate risks and can only provide mitigation is the responsibility of business The Group continues to invest in the reasonable and not absolute assurance heads.
Risk management provides an enhancement of the compliance department against material misstatement or loss.
independent assessment of the Groups in response to challenges posed by changes risks and supports the business heads to the regulatory environment and the more The Group has investments in a number in identifying, monitoring, mitigating intrusive stance of industry regulators.
These of joint ventures and associates.
and reporting key risks through the initiatives have included the appointment of Internal control procedures for joint use of a range of tools.
In this way, a regional head of compliance for Asia Pacific ventures and associates rests with the risk management views the Groups and a head of compliance for the Groups senior management of these operations activities both functionally and globally.
and the Company seeks to monitor such investments and exert influence through These tools include: The Groups compliance department board representation.
The boards review independent monitoring and analysis operates under the mandate set by of the effectiveness of the system of of the Groups liquidity exposures, the board.
This mandate, inter alia, internal control in those entities is both current and projected: establishes the compliance department as consequently less comprehensive than credit risk limits based on an internal an independent global control and assurance in its directly-owned subsidiaries.
scoring system: function which implements and manages various information tools and reports ICAPs compliance risk management The effectiveness of the internal such as dashboards and key framework.
This framework is designed to control system is reviewed regularly by risk indicators: provide assurance that ICAPs business is the independent internal audit function.
Group and risk management policies: conducted in accordance with applicable Internal audit reports to the Audit and Risk controls and procedures: rules, regulations and regulatory standards.
Committee and functionally to the Group risk and control self assessments As such, the compliance risk management Finance Director.
Internal audit establishes and process maps: and framework incorporates the requirements an annual audit plan based on discussions significant risk assessment and of applicable law and published international with management and the assessment of quantification programmes.
best practice standards including business the risks inherent in the Groups activities.
advisory support, compliance risk assessment Based on the results from these audits, and mitigation, compliance monitoring it provides assurance to executive 52 Directors report continued management and the Audit and Risk subject to the Audit and Risk Committees during the course of the 2012 13 year Committee that the system of internal chairmans prior approval and the following the completion of the audit control achieves its objectives and highlights subsequent approval of the committee.
gaps and areas for improvement.
During Note 4 to the financial statements details the year, the role of Ernst & Young as the fees paid to the external auditors for Remuneration Committee report internal auditor was reviewed and, on the audit and non-audit services.
The remuneration report is set out on recommendation of the Audit and Risk pages 56 to 64.
Committee, following a tender process, As part of its consideration of the 2011 12 KPMG was appointed internal auditor.
financial statements, the committee has Executive committees reviewed and is satisfied that the auditors Global Executive Management Group Financial reporting have remained independent of the Group The committee members are: The Groups finance function is organised during the financial year and continued Group Chief Executive Officer, chairman on a regional basis under the leadership to do so to the date of this report.
The Group Executive Director Americas of the Group Finance Director.
This function committee also received details from Group Finance Director is responsible for both the day-to-day  LLP of its own Group Chief Operating Officer management and strategic development independence procedures and confirmation Business Chief Executive Officers of the Groups finance infrastructure that, in its opinion, it remained independent Group General Counsel together with ensuring that Group policies throughout the year.
have been adopted and appropriate controls The GEMG proposes commercial strategy put in place to enable accurate and timely The assessment of the effectiveness of to the board, oversees the performance reporting of consolidated financial the external audit process for 2010 11 of the businesses and sets commercial information for management, regulatory was undertaken following the completion direction within the scope of the delegated and statutory purposes.
of the audit for that year.
The results of this authorities.
The GEMG also advises the assessment were reviewed by the Audit board on commercial matters and priorities External reporting, which includes the and Risk Committee in November 2011. as required.
The GEMG reports to the board half and full-year reports and the interim The assessment of the effectiveness of and will receive advice on operational, risk management statements, uses data the external audit process for 2011 12 and implementation issues from the GOC produced by the regional teams and relies will be undertaken in June 2012. and may ask the GOC to oversee the on systems and processes functioning  LLP, and its implementation of its decisions.
A filing assurance review process, predecessor organisations, has been the reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee, Companys auditors since the Company Global Operating Committee is in place in respect of half-year and was formed from the merger of Garban The committee members are: full-year reporting.
The committee Group Chief Operating Officer, chairman considers that the relationship with the Group Finance Director Evaluation of external auditors external auditors is working well and remains Group General Counsel During the financial year, the Audit and satisfied with their effectiveness.
Accordingly, Business chief operating officers Risk Committee reviewed and approved the it has not considered it necessary to require Group Financial Controller proposed audit fee and terms of engagement  LLP to tender Global Head of HR for the 2011 12 audit and recommended to for the audit work although this is always Global Chief Risk Officer the board that it proposes to shareholders kept under review.
There are no contractual Group Head of Compliance that  LLP be obligations restricting the Companys Head of Internal Audit re-appointed as the Groups external choice of external auditors.
The GOC reviews and makes Rotation of the audit partner recommendations in relation to all matters The committee also monitored the balance As detailed in the 2011 Annual Report, affecting the controls and operations of of audit and non-audit fees to ensure that  LLP and the the Group, including but not limited to the the independence and objectivity of the Company had agreed to extend the term implementation of strategic decisions from external auditors is maintained.
During the of the lead audit partner for a sixth year, the board and the GEMG, the establishment year,  LLP was in line with guidance set out in Ethical of new businesses, the integration of one of the main providers of external advice Standard 3 Long association with the audit acquired businesses, the adequacy but its work was limited to specific areas, engagement, issued by the Audit Practices of processes around existing businesses and largely relating to fixed term regulatory Board.
The board made the decision to operational risk.
While undertaking this role, and compliance projects, and the services extend the term of the lead audit partner the committee ensures the implementation of other firms were used on an ongoing on the basis that the continuity was and compliance with board approved basis.
Any proposed non-audit assignments, necessary following board changes and policies.
The GOC reports to the board with fees in excess of 100,000, are increased regulatory scrutiny.
The rotation and the Audit and Risk Committee, as of the lead audit partner will be made appropriate, as well as taking commercial ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Directors report 53 direction from the GEMG.
The committee receives regular investor reports which detail Annual general meeting provides advice to the GEMG as requested the feedback from investor meetings and The fourteenth annual general meeting of and on an own-initiative basis.
roadshows attended by executive directors the Company will be held on Wednesday, and senior management and also receives 11 July 2012.
Details of the resolutions to Group Risk and Capital Committee the results of investor perception studies.
be proposed at the annual general meeting The committee members are: The movements on the share register are are set out in the notice of annual general Group Finance Director, chairman reviewed at board meetings.
The Chairman meeting sent to all shareholders.
The notice Group Chief Operating Officer of the board and the chairman of the is sent to shareholders at least 20 working Group General Counsel Remuneration Committee have consulted days before the meeting and details of Group Financial Controller with key shareholders during the year to proxy votes for and against each resolution, Global Chief Risk Officer understand investors views on executive together with votes withheld, are made Group Head of Tax and Treasury remuneration following feedback on the available after the vote has been dealt with Chief Finance Officer Americas 2011 remuneration report.
Chief Finance Officer EMEA The Company publishes its half and Business review The GRACC reviews, offers recommendations full-year financial statements, stock A review of the Groups principal business and makes decisions in relation to all risks exchange announcements and analyst activities and future developments are set out affecting the financial, liquidity and capital presentations via the investor relations in the following sections of the Annual Report position of the Group resulting from, but section of its website, www.
and the following sections are incorporated not limited to, the facilitation of strategic In addition, there are regular meetings into the directors report by reference: direction from the board and the GEMG, the during the year with analysts and investors implementation of new regulatory directives, subject to regulatory constraints to Pages the establishment of new businesses and update them on developments in the ICAP in 10 2-13 the integration of acquired businesses.
The Groups strategy and performance.
Business review 15-39 committee seeks to ensure the adequacy of Key performance indicators 30-31 the Groups risk profile with the risk appetite as The Companys annual general meeting Risk and control environment 32-35 defined by the board.
The GRACC reports to provides shareholders with an opportunity Corporate responsibility 36-39 the board and the Audit and Risk Committee to ask questions of the directors on the as required and provides advice to the GEMG Groups business.
All directors attended Dividend and the GOC on an own-initiative basis.
A final dividend of 16.00p per share is recommended by the directors.
Together Relations and dialogue Substantial shareholders with the interim dividend of 6.00p per share with shareholders At 31 March 2012, and at 10 May 2012, already declared and paid, this makes a total Collectively the board is accountable to the last practicable date prior to publication, for the year ended 31 March 2012 of the Companys shareholders and seeks the Company has been notified of the 22.00p per share 2011 19.95p.
Details to promote good relations and effective following voting rights of 3% or more of the interim dividend payment are set out dialogue with its shareholders.
The board in its issued share capital: in note 3 to the financial statements.
Subject to approval at the annual general meeting, the final dividend will be paid on Percentage of voting rights 20 July 2012 to shareholders on the register Total interest in Indirect Direct Total ordinary shares % % % at the close of business on 29 June 2012.
Substantial shareholders Michael Spencer, together The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from with INFBV and INCAP 27 June 2012.
Overseas BV 108,074,101 16.26 0.47 16.73 Newton Investment Management Limited 52,546,074 8.13 8.13 Schroders plc 32,989,936 5.11 5.11 FIL Limited 32,710,343 5.00 0.06 5.06 BlackRock, Inc. 32,388,112 4.93 0.08 5.01 AXA SA 29,749,171 3.80 0.81 4.61 Legal & General Group plc 19,850,242 3.07 3.07 Michael Spencer, together with trusts for the benefit of his children of which he is one of joint trustees, owns a majority shareholding in IPGL, of which INFBV is a wholly-owned subsidiary.
Accordingly, Michael Spencer is deemed to be interested in all the shares in ICAP plc held by INFBV and its wholly-owned subsidiary, INCAP Overseas BV, totalling 105,069,560 shares.
A trust of which Michael Spencers children are beneficiaries and he is a joint trustee owns, a further 50,000 shares and 2,947,480 shares are held by EES Trustees International Limited as trustee of the ICAP Trust.
The shares held in the ICAP Trust include basic awards to Michael Spencer under the BSMP and matching awards under the BSMP in respect of which there are no unsatisfied performance or continuity of employment conditions.
Michael Spencer has an interest in a further 2,832 share options under the SAYE scheme and holds 4,229 shares in his own name.
54 Directors report continued Share capital or by a transfer of Treasury Shares.
Changes Directors statement The Companys share capital comprises in options and awards under the various of responsibilities ordinary shares of 10p each, all of which schemes are detailed in note 20 to the are fully paid.
664,365,322 shares were in financial statements.
The rules of the Auditors and the disclosure issue at 31 March 2012, including Treasury Companys share plans contain provisions of information to auditors Shares.
Subject to the Companys articles of which may cause options and awards So far as each person who was a director association and prevailing legislation, each granted to employees under the schemes at the date of approving this report is aware, ordinary share in issue carries equal rights to vest on a change of control.
there is no relevant audit information, including one vote per share on a poll at being information needed by the auditors general meetings of the Company.
Conflicts of interest in connection with preparing their report, A process has been established under the of which the auditors are unaware.
Each 18,294,235 2011 4,028,154 Treasury articles of association whereby directors director has taken all the steps that he is Shares were held by the Company at actual and potential conflicts are identified obliged to take as a director in order to 31 March 2012 representing 2.75% of and regularly reviewed.
The board can make him aware of any relevant audit the issued share capital.
Such shares carry authorise potential conflicts of interest information and to establish that the neither voting rights nor an entitlement to that may arise and impose such limits auditors are aware of that information.
a dividend while held as Treasury Shares.
or conditions as it thinks fit.
Such authority There are no other restrictions on the can be made only by independent directors  LLP were transfer of ordinary shares.
those who have no interest in the matter re-appointed auditors to the Company being considered.
In making such a decision at the annual general meeting in The Company purchased 14,766,081 of its the directors must act in a way they July 2011.
Resolutions to re-appoint own shares during the period under review.
consider, in good faith, will be most likely  LLP and to 14,266,081 of these shares purchased are to promote the success of the Company.
authorise the directors to set their held as Treasury Shares and 500,000 were Any appropriate authorisation is sought remuneration will be proposed at the purchased and cancelled.
As at 31 March prior to the appointment of a new director forthcoming annual general meeting.
2012, and at 10 May 2012, the Company or at the time if any new conflict arises.
Note 4 to the financial statements sets had an unexpired authority to repurchase During the year, the board considered out details of the auditors remuneration.
shares up to a maximum of 51,246,170 that this procedure operated effectively.
All changes Statement of directors responsibilities in share capital are detailed in note 18 to The Group Company Secretary for the Annual Report the financial statements.
All directors have access to the advice The directors are responsible for preparing and services of the Group Company the Annual Report, the remuneration report The ICAP and Garban Trusts hold ordinary Secretary who is responsible for ensuring and the financial statements in accordance shares which may be used to satisfy options that board procedures and applicable rules with applicable law and regulations.
and awards granted under the Companys are observed.
Directors may also obtain share plans.
The voting rights of ordinary independent professional advice in respect Company law requires the directors to shares held in the ICAP and Garban of their duties to the board and to its prepare financial statements for each Trusts are exercisable by the trustees in committees at the Companys expense.
Under that law the directors accordance with their fiduciary duties.
The The Company maintains liability insurance have elected to prepare the Company and right to receive dividends has been waived for its directors and officers.
Group financial statements in accordance in respect of the shares held in the ICAP with International Financial Reporting and Garban Trusts.
As at 31 March 2012, Related party transactions Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
share awards and options existed over Details of related party transactions are set Under company law the directors must 14,409,357 of the Companys ordinary out in note 29 to the financial statements.
not approve the financial statements unless shares in relation to employee share they are satisfied that they give a true awards and option schemes.
Of this figure, Political donations and fair view of the state of affairs of the 4,252,550 are awards and options over No political donations were made during Company and the Group and of the profit existing shares which are held in employee the year 2011 nil.
or loss of the Group for that period.
The remainder are expected to be satisfied by either new issues of shares Event after the balance sheet date Details of the event after the balance sheet date are set out in the business review on page 29.
ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Directors report 55 In preparing these financial statements, Directors statement pursuant to the After reviewing the Groups annual budget, the directors are required to: Disclosure and Transparency Rules liquidity requirements, plans and financing select suitable accounting policies The directors are also required by the arrangements, the directors are satisfied and then apply them consistently: Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FSA that the Company and the Group have make judgements and accounting to include a management report containing a adequate resources to continue to operate estimates that are reasonable fair review of the business and a description for the foreseeable future and confirm that and prudent: of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and the Group are going state whether applicable IFRSs as the Company and the Group.
For this reason they continue to adopted by the EU have been followed, adopt the going concern basis in preparing subject to any material departures Each of the directors, whose name and these financial statements.
disclosed and explained in the financial function is listed in the directors profiles, statements: and confirms that, to the best of their By order of the board prepare the financial statements on knowledge and belief: the going concern basis unless it is the financial statements, prepared Deborah Abrehart inappropriate to presume that the in accordance with IFRS as adopted Group Company Secretary Company and the Group will continue by the EU, give a true and fair view of ICAP plc in business.
the assets, liabilities, financial position 2 Broadgate and profit or loss of the Company London EC2M 7UR The directors are responsible for keeping and the undertakings included in the Company number 3611426 adequate accounting records that are consolidation taken as a whole: and 16 May 2012 sufficient to show and explain the the management report disclosures Companys and the Groups transactions are contained in the business review and disclose with reasonable accuracy and include a fair review of the at any time the financial position of the development and performance of Company and the Group and enable them the business and the position of the to ensure that the financial statements and Company and the undertakings included the remuneration report comply with the in the consolidation taken as a whole, Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the together with a description of the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the principal risks and uncertainties IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for that they face.
safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable Going concern steps for the prevention and detection of The Groups business activities, together fraud and other irregularities.
with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position The directors are responsible for the are set out in the business review.
The maintenance and integrity of the Companys financial position of the Group, its cash website.
Legislation in the UK governing the flow, liquidity position, facilities and preparation and dissemination of financial borrowing position are described in the statements may differ from legislation in business review and notes 7 and 6 to other jurisdictions.
the financial statements provide further detail on the Groups borrowings and management of financial risks.
The business review includes an analysis of the key risks facing the Group and the Groups approach to risk management is discussed in the directors report.
