Corporate governance: Nomination Committee CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued THE BOARD continued Effectiveness Re-election of Directors NOMINATION COMMITTEE Role of the Nomination Committee Board structure The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that all Directors The responsibilities of the committee are to: The size, composition and qualications of the members of the submit themselves for re-election at the Companys AGM, which Jonathan Davie, Chairman of Board have a significant impact on its eectiveness.
There is this year will be held on 18 October 2012.
Following a rigorous the Nomination Committee, Review the composition of the Board and Board committees to an appropriate combination of Executive Directors and Nonperformance evaluation of each Director and the Board as a reviews the committees ensure that they are appropriately balanced in terms of skills, Executive Directors such that no individual or small group of whole, all the Directors, with the exception of Nat le Roux and activities during the knowledge and experience individuals can dominate the Boards decision making.
This is Andrew MacKay, are submitting themselves for re-election.
financial year Ensure that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent regularly reviewed to ensure that the Board has the right mix for procedure for the appointment of new Directors and constructive discussion and, ultimately, eective Board decisions.
Biographical details of each of the Directors are found earlier in recommend appointments to the Board this section.
Ensure that plans are in place for orderly succession for Succession planning and appointments to the Board appointments to the Board, and to other senior Succession planning is used by the Board to ensure that the Board evaluation Chairmans overview management positions Group is managed by executives with the necessary skills, The UK Corporate Governance Code and the Financial Reporting The focus and attention of the committee in the year has been experience and knowledge, and to ensure that the Board has Councils guidance on board eectiveness require the Board to the need to strengthen and implement eective succession Activity during the financial year the right balance of individuals to be able to discharge its evaluate performance annually, with an external assessment planning for the Board.
In addition, particular attention was given With the Deputy Chairman, Nat le Roux, stepping down at the responsibilities.
The search for Board candidates is conducted, and performed every three years.
In 2009, the Board commissioned to the diversity of gender, skills, knowledge and experience of the AGM in 2012, the committee has continued to focus on the appointments made, on merit against objective criteria.
the board evaluation team of the Institute of Chartered Board, especially following publication of the Davies review on review of the structure, size and composition of the Board.
Secretaries and Administrators to carry out a thorough evaluation Women on Boards.
Following Nats retirement and Andrew MacKays decision to step The Nomination Committee has specic responsibility for the of the performance of the Board.
This took into account emerging down from the Board, it will comprise eight members - three appointment of Non-Executive and Executive Directors, but the governance trends arising from the Walker Report and the UK Nomination Committee Executive Directors and five independent Non-Executive Directors Board as a whole is also involved in overseeing the development Financial Reporting Council review.
membership and attendance - and so the Board will be compliant with Code provision B.
1.2 of of management resources across the Group.
the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Scheduled Scheduled This year, the Board commissioned an independent external meetings meetings Induction and training Board eectiveness facilitator, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom eligible to attend attended The committee spent its time equally between succession planning New Directors to the Board are provided with appropriate Review, to assist in an evaluation of its eectiveness.
and Board composition during the year ended 31 May 2012.
Group Chairman and training and briengs to familiarise them with their duties and Chairman of Nomination the business operations, risk and governance arrangements.
The review was designed to assess the contribution that the Committee Nomination Committee The induction programme includes meetings with senior Board makes to the success of the Company, and to promote its Allocation of time Jonathan Davie 33 management.
During their term of oce all Directors receive continued eectiveness.
The review encouraged the Directors to Independent regular briengs on changes and developments in the business step back from the day-to-day business of the Board, to question Non-Executive Directors and on any relevant legislative and regulatory changes.
its approach, consider its impact, and prepare for the challenges David Currie 33 Ongoing professional development is important given the ahead.
The review investigated a range of issues, including the Martin Jackson 33 rapidly changing environment in which the Group operates.
way in which the Board defines its role and approaches its work, Roger Yates 33 The Chairman ensures that the Directors continually update and the way in which the Board works together and optimises and refresh their skills and knowledge, and the Company funds its use of time and its contribution to the Company.
Overall The committee meets as necessary to consider appointments to Succession planning independent professional advice as required.
the review was satisfactory, and the Board will consider its the Board.
Although not involved in decisions relating to his own Board composition recommendations during the coming year.
succession, the Chief Executive Ocer also attends.
Information provided to the Board All Directors have access to the advice and services of the In addition to the external Board evaluation, the performance of Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring the individual Executive Directors, other than the Chief Executive, that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and is appraised annually by the Chief Executive, to whom they report.
All Directors receive appropriate The performance of the Chief Executive is appraised annually Jonathan Davie and timely information to enable the Board to exercise its by the Chairman.
The performance of the Chairman is reviewed Chairman, Nomination Committee judgement in the discharge of its duties.
Brieng papers are by the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent 17 July 2012 distributed to all Directors in advance of Board meetings, and Non-Executive Director Roger Yates and taking into account the financial information is distributed monthly.
During the year, an feedback from the Executive Directors.
electronic system was introduced for the ecient and secure delivery of Board and committee papers to Directors.
54 54 | IG GR | IG GROUP HOLDING OUP HOLDINGS PL S PLC | 2 C | 2012 ANNU 012 ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT T 55 55
