Corporate governance: Risk Committee CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued AUDIT COMMITTEE continued RISK COMMITTEE Activity during the financial year continued Compliance The Risk Committee is an executive committee chaired by the Activity during the financial year Non-audit fees The Audit Committee has continued to monitor the work of the Chief Risk Ocer.
The committee meets weekly to ensure that During the year, the committee monitored the overall level of The Group audit was put to tender in the year ended 31 May 2011, compliance department during the financial year, with a focus it deals with issues as they arise.
This reects the corporate risk faced by the Group and reviewed the design and operating and the successful completion of the tender process resulted in on both conduct and prudential monitoring of all areas of the commitment of senior management to play an active role in eectiveness of the Risk Management Framework.
This included both the appointment of  and an overall Group, as well as client money and transaction reporting and day-to-day risk management decision making, and sets the tone a review of: reduction in the audit fee.
During the year,  the Groups development of consumer outcome initiatives across the Group that risk management is central to corporate has completed non-audit services that commenced or related to such as Treating Customers Fairly.
The Board receives copies of the Risk Committee minutes.
Market and credit stress-testing and impact on liquidity work performed by them prior to their engagement as Auditors, regularly reports to the Audit Committee in relation to Financial institution credit risk and has been engaged to perform additional non-audit related regulatory developments.
The Risk Committee comprises the Chief Executive Ocer, the Individual client credit exposures work.
The committee has carefully reviewed the nature of all nonChief Financial Ocer, the Chief Operating Ocer, the Dealing Product margins and tiered margin structure audit work performed by the auditors, to ensure that under no Internal audit and Operations Director, the Chief Risk Ocer and other Operational risk registers and Key Risk Indicators During the financial year, the committee reviewed the reports circumstances has work been performed which aects members of the Risk function.
In addition, Roger Yates, Senior The impact of a potential euro break-up and mitigating actions their independence.
and recommendations of the internal audit function, including Independent Non-Executive Director, attends the committee Regulatory issues and developments the three-year rolling risk-based internal audit plan made up of meetings periodically.
Other members of sta may also be called Detail of the Groups audit-related fees of 409,000 and other fees a mixture of dierent types of internal audits, which provides on to attend, when the committee is discussing specic matters The following chart highlights how the committee spent its time payable to auditors of 1,099,000 for the year ended 31 May 2012 adequate coverage across the Group and ensures an appropriate appropriate to them.
during the year ended 31 May 2012. are disclosed in note 7 to the financial statements.
Other fees focus to each audit.
The themes from the internal audit work payable to auditors include 386,000, 270,000 and 248,000 in completed during the financial year were a focus on client Overview of the financial year Risk Committee relation to transfer pricing, tax compliance and sales tax money, internal audits of overseas oces and support functions.
During the year the committee focused heavily on the impact of Allocation of time advice respectively.
In addition, the committee monitored the progress on the economic events and volatile markets on the risk prole of the implementation of the audit recommendations raised by the business.
Consequently, the continuing problems in the Eurozone, This year, the committee has also updated the Groups policy internal audit function.
specically the impact on its banks and the future of the currency, Client credit risk governing non-audit work.
This updated policy was developed has dominated much of the committees agenda.
The committee Operational risk with reference to the Smith report, the APB Ethical Standard 5 The following chart highlights how the committee spent its time has focused particularly on the strength of bank and broking Regulatory risk Non-Audit Services Provided to Audit Clients and the ICAEW during the year ended 31 May 2012. counterparties and monitoring client credit exposures as a result.
Financial institution credit risk Guidance for Audit Committees.
The amended policy makes a Liquidity risk distinction between audit-related services and all other non-audit Role of the Risk Committee Audit Committee Market risk services.
This distinction is important as audit-related services are The committees main responsibilities are to: Allocation of time specically required of the Groups Auditor through regulatory, legislative or contractual requirements, in addition to the Identify and evaluate the dierent risks to which the Group Statutory reporting statutory audit services.
is exposed and assist the Board in dening the risk appetite Internal audit matters of the Group Compliance Anti-bribery policy Ensure that infrastructure, resources and systems are in place , In response to the UK Bribery Act, which came into force on 1 to adequately monitor and control the Groups risks, in line with anti-bribery, anti-fraud policy July 2011, the committee oversaw the implementation of the the risk appetite set by the Board Client money Companys anti-bribery compliance programme.
This involved Review the design, completeness and eectiveness of the Risk External audit matters undertaking a comprehensive assessment of the nature and Management Framework extent of the risks relating to bribery to which the Company Review the eectiveness of risk reporting including timeliness is exposed, and introducing both an Anti-Bribery Policy and a and risk events Gifts and Hospitality Policy.
The committee ensured that the Consider and review developments and prospective changes compliance programme was adequately communicated to all in the regulatory environment, including the Groups plans to employees, and continues to monitor and review the Companys Martin Jackson inuence future regulatory policies commitment to compliance with the UK Bribery Act on an Chairman, Audit Committee Ensure that all strategic transactions undergo appropriate due ongoing basis.
17 July 2012 diligence before submission to the Board: particular focus is given to risk appetite 72 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 73
