Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Our business 02 63 Business review 10 Funds and portfolio 40 Governance Accounts 83 Corporate governance Chairmans Statement Each non executive director has an appointment letter with the Company and their appointments are reviewed periodically.
The Group recognises, and is committed to, the highest standards The principal matters considered by the Board during the of corporate governance.
Throughout the year ended 31 March year included: 2012, the Group has been in compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the the Group strategic plan, budget and financial resources: Financial Reporting Council.
Details on how we have applied the review of the compliance policies: Principles of the Code can be found in this Corporate Governance regular review of the investment portfolio and any areas section and also in the Remuneration Report on pages 70 and 80. of concern: A copy of the Code is publicly available on the Financial Reporting communication of our financial results for the interim and year Councils website www.
end: The Boards responsibilities and processes review of current compensation structures: independence of non executive directors: and The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the overall management of the Group.
The Boards main roles are to provide corporate responsibility initiatives and performance.
leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed and to Executive Committee: ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and thus increase the development and recommendation of strategic plans for shareholder value.
consideration by the Board that reflect the longer term: objectives and priorities established by the Board: There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for Board approval, which include: implementation of the strategies and policies of the Group as determined by the Board: approval of the Groups overall business strategy, planning and monitoring of operating and financial results against plans and annual budget: budgets: assessment of internal controls and risk management: monitoring the quality of the investment process: and approval of the Groups half year and annual financial statements developing and implementing risk management systems.
and dividend policy: presenting a balanced and understandable assessment of the The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Companys position and prospects to the shareholders through the Chairmans and Chief Executives statement, the Business The Chairman of the Board, Justin Dowley, leads the Board review, the Financial review and the financial statements: in the determination of its strategy and in achieving its objectives.
The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the appointments to the Board and Executive Committee: Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
capital expenditure decisions: and The Chairman has no involvement in the day to day business changes in employee incentive schemes.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of non executive directors and ensures that there is effective At each Board meeting there is a full financial and business review communication with the Groups shareholders.
which includes the comparison of performance to date against the The Chairman was considered independent at the date of his Boards previously approved annual budget.
Each Board member receives a comprehensive Board pack at The Chief Executive Officer, Christophe Evain has direct least five days prior to each meeting which incorporates a formal charge of the Group on a day to day basis and is accountable agenda together with supporting papers for items to be discussed to the Board for the financial and operational performance of the at the meeting.
Further information is obtained by the Board from Group.
The Chief Executive is supported in his role by a committee the managing directors and other relevant members of senior called the Executive Committee which supports him in carrying management, as the Board, particularly its non executive directors, out the responsibilities delegated to him by the Board.
The Executive Committee comprises the managing directors All directors have access to the advice and services of the and meets on a regular basis to consider operational matters and Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice the implementation of the Groups strategy.
No one managing at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
director is able to significantly affect the running of the Company The appointment removal of the Company Secretary would be without consulting his colleagues.
In accordance with the Code the Board has adopted a formal The Board appreciates the importance of the continued division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO, with professional development of the directors.
the intention to establish a clear division of responsibilities between The non executive directors, at least annually, hold meetings the running of the Board and the executive responsibility for the in the absence of the managing directors and, separately, in the running of the Companys business.
Intermediate Capital Group plc 64 Corporate governance continued Senior Independent Director Board performance Kevin Parry holds the position of Senior Independent Director In line with the effective governance requirements of the Code, the of the Company.
In accordance with the Code any shareholder Board reviews its own performance annually using a predetermined concerns not resolved through the usual mechanisms for investor template designed as a tool to facilitate the evaluation process.
communication can be conveyed to the Senior Independent The assessment covers the functioning of the Board as a Director.
whole, the functioning of the Executive Committee, the evaluation of individual directors and includes a review of the effectiveness Board of directors of the Board committees.
The Board considers the results of the performance evaluation when making its recommendations As at 31 March 2012, the Board comprised two managing regarding the re-election of directors.
directors, an independent non executive Chairman and four In addition, and in accordance with the Code, the Board also independent non executive directors.
Following a rigorous review employs the services of an external third party to periodically in accordance with the Code the Board consider all five of its non conduct an independent evaluation of the effectiveness and executive directors to be independent in character and judgement performance of the Board.
An independent Board evaluation was and that they each provide effective challenge both within and undertaken in April 2012 and considered the effectiveness and outside Board meetings.
The non executive directors are as follows: performance of the Board within relation to: Board composition, Justin Dowley was appointed a non executive director in expertise, and dynamics: time management and board support: February 2006, and non executive Chairman in July 2010. strategic oversight: risk management and internal control: and succession planning and human resource management.
James Nelson was appointed a non executive director The independent Board evaluation concluded that the Board in May 2001. was effective in all areas.
Jean-Daniel Camus was appointed a non executive director The Board recognises that there are no women on the Board, in March 2007. contrary to recently announced Code guidance on Board Kevin Parry was appointed as a non executive director composition, and takes account of this in its process of selecting in June 2009. new directors.
Peter Gibbs was appointed as a non executive director in March 2010.
Election and re-election of directors The non executive directors are considered to be of the appropriate The Companys current Articles of Association provide that a calibre and experience to bring significant influence to bear on the director appointed by the Board shall retire at the Annual General Boards decision making process.
Meeting following his appointment and that at each Annual General The Chairman was appointed a non executive director of Meeting of the Company one-third of the directors must retire by Melrose plc during the year.
We do not consider this appointment rotation.
The Board has decided that in accordance with the Code, to have any impact on his ability to effectively perform his role as each of the directors will retire and offer himself for re-election at this Chairman of the Board.
The Board meets at least six times a year with additional In relation to the directors who are standing for re-election the meetings being held as required.
Chairman is satisfied that, following formal performance evaluation, The table below shows the number of Board and Committee each director continues to be effective and demonstrates meetings held during the year and the attendance record commitment to his role.
Conflicts of Interest Board and Committee meetings Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association allow the Board Committee Committee Committee directors to authorise conflicts of interest and the Board has Number of adopted a policy and effective procedures on managing and, 9 4 4 2 meetings held where appropriate, approving potential conflicts of interest.
Tom Attwood 7 3 3 Jean-Daniel Camus 5 4 3 2 Justin Dowley 9 4 4 2 Christophe Evain 9 4 3 2 Peter Gibbs 9 4 4 2 Philip Keller 9 4 4 2 Franois fide Mitry 2 1 James Nelson 8 3 4 1 Kevin Parry 9 4 4 2 Attended these meetings but is not on the Committee.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Our business 02 65 Business review 10 Funds and portfolio 40 Governance Accounts 83 Board Committees reviewing the provisioning policy for the investment portfolio on a six monthly basis: and reviewing and approving the Companys The Board is supported in its decisions by four principal whistleblowing policy: Committees, which are described below.
The Terms of Reference reviewing the Companys procedures for detecting fraud and for of each of the Board Committees together with the directors handling, in confidence, allegations from whistleblowers and to service agreements, the terms and conditions of appointment of ensure these procedures allow proportionate and independent non executive directors and directors deeds of indemnity are investigation of such matters and appropriate follow up action: available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
Each Committee has access to such reviewing managements and the internal risks reports on the external advice as it may consider appropriate.
The Company effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial Secretary acts as Secretary of the Audit and Risk and reporting and risk management, including non-financial risk Remuneration Committees.
management: and The Terms of Reference of each committee are considered monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the annually by the respective committee before being referred to the Company, including its annual and half-yearly reports, interim Board for approval.
management statements, and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance, reviewing significant financial Audit and Risk Committee reporting issues and judgments which they contain.
The Audit and Risk Committee consists of four independent non executive directors, these being Kevin Parry Chairman of the During the year the Audit and Risk Committee: Committee, Jean-Daniel Camus, Peter Gibbs and James Nelson.
reviewed and recommended to the Board the accounting The managing directors and Chairman of the Board are not disclosures comprised in the interim and annual financial members of the Audit and Risk Committee but are normally invited statements of the Group and reviewed the scope of the external to attend.
Deloitte LLP, the Companys auditor, is also invited to audit plan and audit findings: attend and has direct access to Committee members.
The Board evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external auditor is satisfied that the Chairman has recent and relevant financial and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The auditor provided experience as do other members of the Committee.
The Committee non-audit services in the form of tax advisory and other meets regularly, at least four times a year, and is responsible for: assurance services not related to the audit of the financial selecting and recommending the appointment and statements.
The external auditor was used to provide these re-appointment of the external auditor to the Board, approving services since they are widely recognised as a market leader in their terms of reference and fees: these areas, have a reputation for quality, and have a local reviewing the performance of the external auditor and ensuring presence in the countries in which the services were performed.
appropriate rotation of audit partner: Audit objectivity and independence was safeguarded in these instances through the advice being provided by partners and staff acting as a forum for discussion of internal control issues and who have no involvement in the audit of the financial statements giving input to the Boards review of the Companys internal plus an independent audit partner reviewing any audit work in control and risk management systems and procedures: these areas.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent reviewing the independence of the external auditor and the fee arrangements.
An analysis of fees paid to Deloitte LLP is relationship between audit and non audit work performed by the shown in note 9 on page 97: external auditor.
Procedures are in place to ensure that all met with the external auditor in the absence of management: significant non audit work performed by the auditor in excess of 50,000 is approved in advance by the Committee and they Reviewed procedures for Anti-Money Laundering and the assess whether such appointments impair, or appear to impair, MLRO report: the auditors judgement or independence.
The procedures set out reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control environment the categories of non-audit services which the external auditor will of the Group: and will not be allowed to provide to the Group, including those reviewed the Risk Management of and Operational Control over that are pre-approved by the Committee and those which require the Funds under Management: specific approval before they are contracted for, subject to fide reviewed Treasury Committee activity: minimis levels.
The Audit and Risk Committee also undertakes an annual evaluation to assess the independence and objectivity of reviewed regulatory developments and their impact on the Group the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process, and taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory reviewed and approved the ICAAP.
The results of the evaluation were last reported to the Board in September 2011. reviewing the annual and interim accounts before they are presented to the Board, in particular any significant issues arising from the audit: accounting policies and clarity of disclosures: compliance with applicable accounting and legal standards: issues regarding a significant element of judgement: and the statements on internal controls and business risk assessment: Intermediate Capital Group plc 66 Corporate governance continued The Board is happy to enter into a dialogue with institutional Remuneration Committee shareholders based on a mutual understanding of objectives, The Remuneration Committee consists of five non executive subject to its duties regarding equal treatment of shareholders directors, these being Peter Gibbs Chairman of the Committee, and the dissemination of inside information.
The Chief Executive Jean-Daniel Camus, Justin Dowley, James Nelson and Kevin Parry.
Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chairman meet institutional Managing Directors are not members of the Remuneration shareholders on a regular basis.
The Board as a whole is kept Committee but are normally invited to attend.
The Committee fully informed of the views and concerns of the major shareholders.
supports the Board in determining the level of remuneration of the When requested to do so, non executive directors will attend Chairman in his absence and reviews the remuneration policy meetings with major shareholders.
Further details regarding remuneration policy and payments made can be found in the Internal control Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 69 to 81.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys internal control system and reviews its effectiveness at least annually.
Nominations Committee Such a system of control is in place to give reasonable, but not The Nominations Committee consists of five non executive absolute, assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions are directors, these being Justin Dowley Chairman of the Committee, authorised and recorded properly and that material errors and Jean-Daniel Camus, Peter Gibbs, Kevin Parry and James Nelson.
irregularities are prevented or would be detected within a The Committee is responsible for considering the composition timely period.
of the Board to ensure that the balance of its membership as Through the regular meetings of the Board and the schedule between managing directors and non executive directors is of matters reserved to the Board or its duly authorised Committees, appropriate.
Appointments of managing directors and non executive the Board aims to maintain full and effective control over appropriate directors are made as necessary as a result of discussions by the strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
The Board Committee and are subject to full Board approval and election or has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines re-election at a general meeting of the shareholders.
of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Prior to any appointment to the Board, the Nominations The Board annually considers and approves a strategic plan Committee considers the balance of skills, experience, and budget.
In addition there are established procedures and independence and knowledge appropriate to determine the processes in place for the making and monitoring of investments requirements and necessary capabilities of the role.
In addition, and the planning and controlling of expenditure.
The Board also any new director normally meets all existing directors prior receives regular reports from the Executive Committee on the to appointment.
Companys operational and financial performance, measured Executive Committee against the annual budget as well as regulatory and The Executive Committee comprises the managing directors of ICG, compliance matters.
each of whom have a specific area of responsibility.
The Executive The Company has in place arrangements whereby employees Committee has general responsibility for ICGs resources, may raise matters of concern in confidence about possible determining strategy, financial and operational control and improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Christophe Evain is Chief The Board has considered the need for an internal audit Executive Officer and in addition to his strategic and operational function, but has decided that because of the nature of the current remit he chairs the Companys Investment Committees in his role internal control system and size of the Company it cannot be as the Chief Investment Officer.
Philip Keller is Chief Financial Officer justified at present.
The Board will review this decision next year.
and is responsible for finance and infrastructure.
Tom Attwood In addition to the regular risk reports discussed at the Audit and chaired the Executive Committee and focused on credit funds until Risk Committees meetings, the Board undertakes a formal periodic his resignation on 31 March 2012, whereupon Christophe Evain assessment of the risk management and control arrangements in took over those responsibilities, Franois fide Mitry was responsible order to form a view on the overall effectiveness of the system of for the mezzanine and minority equity business until his resignation internal control.
The Board has authorised the Executive Committee on 31 July 2011 whereupon Christophe Evain took over that to undertake external reviews of the emerging risks, where required, responsibility.
Benot Durteste, appointed to the Board on 21 May with a view to assist the growth of the Companys business.
2012, took over responsibility for the mezzanine and minority equity The rationale for the system of internal control is to maximise business from that date.
effectiveness for the commercial management of the business and to provide the Board with regular and effective reporting on Relationships with shareholders the identified significant risk factors.
The Board is responsible The Company recognises the importance of communication with its for determining strategies and policies for risk control, and shareholders, which it achieves through interim and annual reports management is responsible for implementing such strategies and the AGM.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and the and policies.
Chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit and Risk, and Nominations Committees will be available to answer shareholders questions at the AGM.
The numbers of proxy votes lodged in connection with the Companys AGM are announced following the conclusion of the relevant meeting.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Our business 02 67 Business review 10 Funds and portfolio 40 Governance Accounts 83 The Board confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, Going concern statement evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks has operated The Financial review on pages 26 to 31 describes the financial throughout the year and that, up to the date of the approval of the position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and directors report and financial statements, the Board continues to borrowing facilities together with its objectives, factors likely apply the procedures necessary to comply with the requirements to affect its future development and policies and processes of the Turnbull Committee guidelines Internal Control Guidance for managing its capital.
The Groups financial risk management for Directors on the Combined Code.
objectives and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk are described in the Principal risks and uncertainties section on The key elements of this process are: pages 32 to 35 and details of its financial instruments and hedging core values, Company standards and controls which together activities are described in note 30 on pages 111 to 118.
The Group comprise the Companys high level principles and controls, with continually monitors its debt profile and looks to refinance senior which all staff are expected to comply: facilities a substantial period before they mature.
As reported in the financial statements a number of facilities have been renegotiated manuals of procedures, compliance and policies applicable to all during the year.
Having reviewed the Groups budget and business business units: plan and, taking into account reasonable downside sensitivity, the identification of the major business risks facing the Company the directors believe that the Group has adequate financial and the development of appropriate policies for the management resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable of those risks.
The Board recognises that the internal control future and accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
failure to achieve business objectives: the employment of experienced and professional staff of the highest calibre both by recruitment and promotion to fulfil allotted responsibilities: strategic risks are considered by both the Board and the Executive Committee in the context of an agreed strategic framework.
A strategy paper and plan are produced annually to address the strategic challenges of the Group and these are approved by the Board: a detailed financial plan is developed for the year ahead and comprehensive monthly reports covering actual and planned performance are provided to the Board by the Groups finance function: regular treasury reports are made to the Board which analyse the funding requirements of the Company, track liquidity and monitor the Companys compliance to its interest and exchange rate policies: a compliance and legal function whose role is to monitor and report to the Board on the Companys regulatory compliance: a well defined procedure governing the approval, monitoring and sale of investments incorporating appropriate levels of authority and post investment reviews: and regular reports are made on the Companys fund management activities including new fundraising, conflicts of interest and portfolio performance.
