DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE Corporate governanc Corporate governance r e repor eport t continued Our internal evaluations over the last several years, have CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW all indicated that the Board is operating effectively.
In line It gives me great pleasure to with Corporate Governance best practice, an external board introduce this years Corporate evaluation will be undertaken during the 2012 13 financial year.
I would like to In the interests of ensuring the transparency of our Board take this opportunity to provide you operations, we will discuss the resulting developmental themes with some direct insight into the from the evaluation processes within future reports.
Boards views on Corporate Governance, the changes to our During the year we have continued our work in promoting greater Board composition through the year and more effective engagement with our shareholders.
Andrew and our focus for the coming months.
Higginson, our Executive Directors, and I have met regularly with institutional investors and analysts.
Along with Daniel Rimer, As a Board, we are the stewards of the Company.
It is our Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, we will continue responsibility to ensure that the Companys strategy is aligned to engage with shareholders over the course of the coming to the interests of our investors and takes account of the financial year.
interests of all the Companys stakeholders.
As individuals, we believe that effective Corporate Governance is based on honesty, Nicholas Ferguson integrity and transparency, and can only be fully realised within Chairman an environment of open, robust and effective debate.
This is the Board culture we foster at Sky, and it is my personal responsibility COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE as Chairman to ensure that we continue to live this culture and GOVERNANCE CODE promote it within our business.
The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code provides the Firstly, I would like to address our Board composition.
Following standard of good corporate governance in the UK.
The Financial the withdrawal of the News Corporation proposal in July 2011, the Services Authority requires listed companies to disclose whether Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee has reviewed they have complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the composition of the Board and has started an orderly the financial year.
programme of replacing independent non-executive directors The Board considers that the Company complied with the main as they retire.
As a result, a number of changes in Board and principles of the Code for the whole of the year ended 30 June Committee membership have been recommended to the Board 2012 with the following exception.
Provision C. 3.1. of the Code during the year.
I am pleased to welcome Tracy Clarke, Martin states that the Audit Committee must be comprised of at Gilbert and Matthieu Pigasse to the Board, who have replaced least three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
There was Allan Leighton and David Evans who retired after the Companys a period during the year between Allan Leightons retirement 2011 AGM, and Dame Gail Rebuck who retired in June 2012.
In from the Board and the Audit Committee on 29 November order to clarify the roles of Board members, within our Corporate 2011 and Matthieu Pigasses appointment as a member of the Governance Report on page 44, we have included a detailed Audit Committee on 1 May 2012, that the Audit Committees description of the Directors roles and responsibilities.
membership fell to two Independent Non-Executive Directors.
I took over the role of Chairman in April 2012 replacing James The meeting of the Audit Committee held on 30 January 2012 Murdoch, who has assumed the role of Non-Executive Director.
was held prior to Mr Pigasses appointment to the Committee.
James made a major contribution to the success of the Company There were no other meetings held without three Independent during his tenure as CEO, then more recently as Chairman Non-Executive Directors being present from 29 November 2011 to and going forward the Board will continue to benefit from his 1 May 2012. business insight and experience.
Thomas Mockridge has assumed This section of the Annual Report along with the Remuneration the role of Deputy Chairman and Andrew Higginson has taken Committees report on Directors remuneration on pages 54 to over as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
63 and other governance and statutory disclosures on pages 64 It has been the Boards strategy to attract directors who to 66 provide details of how the Company has applied the main complement and expand upon the skill set of the Board.
Further information on the Code is publicly available on seek to appoint directors who provide diversity in background, the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
We recognise that gender diversity can We believe that at the close of the financial period the Company bring a greater range of viewpoints to boardroom debate and is wholly compliant with the provisions of the Code having improve board dynamics.
addressed the unintentional departure from the Code as documented above.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 42 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE the entering into by the Group of a commitment or LEADERSHIP arrangement or any series of related commitments or Role of the Board and its Members arrangements with News Corporation, any of its subsidiaries, The Board has collective responsibility for the management, or a related party which involves, or could reasonably involve, direction and performance of the Group and provides leadership the payment or receipt by the Group of amounts equal to or within a framework of prudent and effective controls which in excess of 25 million in aggregate value: enables risk to be appropriately assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Companys strategic direction, ensuring that the approval of resolutions to be put forward to shareholders at a necessary resources are in place for the Company to meet its general meeting: objectives and deliver sustainable performance.
changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, The Board values an effective long term outlook and sees itself following, if applicable, recommendations from any committee as responsible to a wide range of stakeholders, whilst pursuing to which the Board delegates consideration of such issues: its objectives in a manner consistent with its statutory duties, for the benefit of the Companys members as a whole.
appointment and removal of the Chairman of the Board and the CEO: and The Directors of the Board are selected on the criteria of proven skill and ability in their particular field of endeavour, and a determining the independence of Non-Executive Directors.
diversity of outlook and experience which directly benefits the The full schedule of matters reserved for decision making by operation of the Board as the custodian of the business.
A full the Board, can be found on the Companys corporate website at biography of each Board member is provided on pages 40 to 41. www.
In the event that a matter is required to The Board agenda be resolved by a vote of the Board, the matter shall be decided by The roles of the Chairman and CEO are separate and have been a majority of votes in accordance with the Companys articles of so since the Companys shares were admitted to listing in 1994. association.
The Chairman does not have a casting vote.
The roles and expectations of each Director are clearly defined Board delegation and recorded within their letters of appointment or service The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Board contracts.
The roles and responsibilities of the Board members committees, notably the Audit, Remuneration, Corporate are explained below.
Governance & Nominations and The Bigger Picture committees.
To maintain an appropriate level of control over the day to day Each committees terms of reference can be found on the affairs of the Company, the following matters are subject to the Companys corporate website.
The Corporate Governance & determination and or approval of the Board, and are contained Nominations Committee reviewed the terms of reference of each within the Companys Schedule of Matters Reserved to the committee during the year and recommended changes to the Board: Board.
The Board is satisfied that the terms of reference of each of the committees satisfy the requirements of the Code.
approval of the annual budget and any changes to it: The minutes of committee meetings are made available to all a major change in the nature, scope or scale of the business of Board Directors on a timely basis.
At each Board meeting the the Group: chairman of each committee provides the Board with a brief update of the work currently being carried out by the committee approval of the interim and final results: they chair.
approval of any dividend policy: The Board has delegated authority for the day-to-day running of the organisation to the Executive Directors.
A committee of changes relating to the Groups capital structure, including senior management generally meets on a weekly basis to allow reductions of capital and share buy-backs: prompt discussion of relevant business issues.
It is chaired by the entering into by the Group of a commitment or the CEO and comprises the CFO and other senior executives from arrangement or any series of related commitments or within the Group.
arrangements which, whether budgeted or unbudgeted, involves or could reasonably involve, the payment or receipt by the Group of amounts equal to or in excess of 200 million in aggregate value: ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 43 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report continued to chair meetings of the Executive Committee.
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES The Chairman Deputy Chairman The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring The role of the Companys Deputy Chairman is: its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
This includes ensuring, via the Company Secretary, that the to deputise for the Chairman as appropriate in his absence: Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The and duties of the Chairman include the following: to provide a sounding board to Non-Executive Directors as to encourage and ensure effective communication appropriate.
with shareholders, and ensure shareholder views are Senior Independent Non-Executive Director SID communicated to the Board as a whole: The role of the SID is to provide both support and a to facilitate a structure to allow the effective contribution of counterbalance to the position of Chairman and encompasses all Directors, and of Non-Executive Directors in particular: the following: to create an environment which engenders constructive to provide a sounding board to the Chairman: relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors: to serve as an alternative source of advice to the Chairman for to organise the business of the Board so that it can be carried the other Non-Executive Directors: out effectively and efficiently: together with the other Independent Non-Executive to lead the Board in discussions regarding the Companys Directors, to evaluate the performance of the Chairman and strategy and in the achievement of its objectives: agree development points required: to ensure Board committees are properly established, along with the Chairman, to liaise with institutional composed and operated: and shareholders and representative bodies during the year: and to enhance the Companys public standing and image overall.
to assist shareholders in resolving concerns should alternative channels be inappropriate.
The Chief Executive Officer The CEO is responsible for the daily operation of the Company, Non-Executive Directors advancing long-term shareholder value, supported by the Collectively, and specifically within the remit of the Independent management team.
He is accountable and responsible to the Non-Executive Directors, the Non-Executive Directors are Board for the management and operation of the Company.
He is responsible for the following aspects of governance of the Board: also involved in the management of the social and environmental to scrutinise the performance of management in reaching responsibilities of the Company.
The duties of the CEO include the agreed objectives and monitor reporting: following: to satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information: to be responsible and accountable to the Board for the management and operation of the Group: to ensure financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible: to prepare and implement plans and programmes for the attainment of approved objectives and to recommend such to determine appropriate levels of remuneration of Board plans and programmes to the Board as appropriate: members: and to provide leadership in the Groups commitment to attaining to determine the composition of the Board in respect of high business standards generally: succession planning.
to create the conditions within the Group for the efficient Company Secretary operation of all business units: The Company Secretary is responsible for the following in respect of effective Board operation: to establish and maintain relationships with shareholders and potential shareholders, and major external bodies: to ensure good information flows within the Board and its committees, between senior management and Non-Executive to keep the Board informed on all matters of material Directors: importance: and ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 44 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE to facilitate Director induction and assisting with professional Environment supportive of challenge development: and The effective operation of the Board is dependent on the inherent checks and balances within the various Board roles.
to advise the Board through the Chairman of all corporate As highly qualified and successful individuals in their respective governance obligations and developments in best practice.
fields of endeavour, all Independent Non-Executive Directors influence, debate and contribute to decisions relating to the All Directors have access to the advice and services of the strategy of the company, its performance and its impact on Company Secretary who advises on corporate governance stakeholders.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors are matters, Board procedures and other relevant rules and evaluated and judged on the quality and content of their regulations.
In addition, Directors have the right to seek contributions to Board debate and are expected to offer independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
alternative viewpoints and challenge perceptions and decisions as appropriate.
Meetings of the Board during the year The Board met nine times during the year.
Attendance of the current Directors at Board meetings and committee members at meetings of the committees on which they served during the year is set out in the table below: Corporate Governance & Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Bigger Picture Number of meetings held in year 9 6 4 6 2 Director - i ii vi Nicholas Ferguson 8 4 5 Jeremy Darroch, CEO 9 iv v James Murdoch 8 2 Andrew Griffith 9 i iv x Tracy Clarke 1 vi David DeVoe 8 i iii x Martin Gilbert 41 2 ii iii vi Andrew Higginson 86 4 vi vii Thomas Mockridge 7 i vi viii Jacques Nasser 5 3 iii x Matthieu Pigasse 4 1 i ii vi ix Daniel Rimer 6 3 1 ii vi Arthur Siskind 8 5 ii iv Lord Wilson of Dinton 9 6 2 xi David Evans 2 1 xi Allan Leighton 22 xi Dame Gail Rebuck 86 1 Notes: i Remuneration Committee member.
ii Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee member.
iv The Bigger Picture Committee member.
v James Murdoch was unable to attend a Board meeting due to a prior business engagement.
vi On 3 April 2012 two Board meetings were held.
While it was not possible to convene all directors for the first meeting, most directors were able to attend the second meeting.
vii Mr Mockridge was unable to attend a Board meeting due to a house move from Italy to the UK.
viii Jacques Nasser was unable to attend two Board meetings due to conflicting meetings of the BHP Billiton Board, of which he is Chairman.
He was also travelling on the day of 3 April 2012 and so unable to attend the two meetings called at short notice on that day.
ix Mr Rimer could not attend one Board meeting due to a prior business commitment and was unable to attend another due to a family illness.
x Matthieu Pigasse, Tracy Clarke and Martin Gilbert were appointed to the Board during the year.
xi David Evans, Allan Leighton and Dame Gail Rebuck retired from the Board during the year.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 45 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report continued The Independent Non-Executive Directors held meetings without around Director recruitment is discussed in the Corporate the executive directors present and the Chairman and SID held Governance & Nominations Committees report.
regular meetings with major shareholders during the year.
Board and committee changes during the year Directors & Officers Insurance and Indemnity On 18 October 2011, Andrew Higginson was appointed as a The Company recognises that all Directors are equally and member of the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee.
collectively accountable under the law for the proper stewardship At the Companys AGM on 29 November 2011, David Evans and of the Companys affairs.
The Company maintains a Directors Allan Leighton retired from the Board.
On the same date, Martin and Officers liability insurance policy which meets defence costs Gilbert and Matthieu Pigasse were appointed to the Board as when the Director is not proved to have acted fraudulently.
Additionally, the Companys articles of association allow the On 3 April 2012, the Company announced that James Murdoch Company to indemnify the Directors and deeds of indemnity had stepped down as Chairman and would continue to serve have been issued to all the Directors of the Company.
in his capacity as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Nicholas Ferguson was appointed as Chairman, Thomas Mockridge was appointed as Deputy Chairman and Andrew EFFECTIVENESS Higginson was appointed as Senior Independent Non-Executive Board composition and independence Director.
The Board currently comprises 14 Directors, made up of two Executive Directors and 12 Non-Executive Directors.
At least half On 1 May 2012, Daniel Rimer replaced Nicholas Ferguson as of the Board of Directors are determined to be independent Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Nicholas Ferguson by the Board in accordance with provision B.
remains a member of the Remuneration Committee and Martin Biographies of each of the Directors are set out on pages 40 to Gilbert was appointed as a member of the Committee.
Matthieu 41 and identify those Directors who are, in the view of the Board, Pigasse was appointed as a member of the Audit Committee.
independent within the meaning of the Code.
On appointment Also on 1 May 2012, Andrew Higginson replaced Lord Wilson the Chairman met the independence criteria set out in provision as Chairman of the Corporate Governance & Nominations B.
Lord Wilson remains a member of the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee and Daniel Rimer was The Independent Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range appointed as a member of this Committee.
James Murdoch was of experience and expertise to the Groups affairs, and carry appointed Chairman of The Bigger Picture Committee in place significant weight in the Boards decisions.
The Independent Nonof Dame Gail Rebuck who stepped down as Chairman and as a Executive Directors are encouraged to challenge management and member of the Committee.
help develop proposals on strategy.
Time is regularly put aside at Board meetings to discuss the strategic direction of the Company.
On 11 June 2012, Martin Gilbert was appointed as a member of the Audit Committee.
On 11 June 2012, Dame Gail Rebuck retired Prior to appointment, and on an annual basis, each Board from the Board.
On the same date, Tracy Clarke was appointed member receives and completes a questionnaire to determine to the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director and was factors that may affect independence according to best practice also appointed as a member of the Remuneration and The Bigger statements contained within the Code.
The responses to the Picture Committees.
questionnaire assist the Board in ascertaining whether a Director is independent in character and judgment, and whether there are Time commitment relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could Executive Directors are not allowed to take on the chairmanship appear to affect, the Directors judgment.
of a FTSE 100 company, but are allowed to take up one external non-executive FTSE 100 appointment and retain any payments Appointments to the Board and succession planning in respect of such appointments.
All Non-Executive Directors are The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee keeps advised of the likely time commitments required on induction, the Boards balance of skills, knowledge, experience and the and are expected to devote sufficient time for the effective length of service of individuals under constant review.
In respect discharge of their functions.
The Company provides Nonof succession planning and supplementing the skill set of the Executive Directors with appropriate support and facilities for Board, there is an established procedure for the appointment of consideration of the Companys strategy and performance, and Directors.
In brief, the Committee identifies the set of skills and a dialogue with the Chairman is strongly encouraged so that any experience required and, with the assistance of external search issues regarding conflicting commitments and time pressures can agencies, selects individuals to take Board positions on review of be addressed appropriately.
The process adopted by the Committee ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 46 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE Induction & training allow the Directors to authorise situations of potential conflicts All new Directors receive an induction tailored to their individual of interest so that a Director is not in breach of his duty under requirements.
The induction process involves meeting with all company law.
All existing external appointments for each Director of the Companys Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
have been authorised by the Board and each authorisation is set This facilitates their understanding of the Group and the key out in a Conflicts Register.
Directors are required to notify the Board of potential conflicts so that they can be considered, and drivers of the business performance.
During the year, Directors if appropriate, authorised by the Board.
In addition the Corporate have received training in relation to the Listing Rules, directors Governance & Nominations Committee conducts an annual review duties and competition law compliance.
They have also received of Directors conflicts and reports its findings to the Board.
presentations from a number of areas of the business including Customer Group and Sky Sports.
The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee reviewed the Boards conflicts during the financial year and concluded Information provided to the Directors that conflicts had been appropriately authorised and that the The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good process for authorisation is operating effectively.
The Corporate information flows within the Board and its committees, between Governance & Nominations Committee and the Board will senior management and Non-Executive Directors.
In respect of continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on each Board and Committee meeting, Directors are provided with a regular basis.
a tailored Board pack at least one week prior to the meeting.
To improve the delivery and security of Board papers, the Company has adopted an electronic system whereby Board packs are ACCOUNTABILITY directly loaded onto Directors iPads.
Directors regularly receive Throughout this report and, as required, through other periodic additional information from the Company between Board financial statements, the Board is committed to providing meetings including a monthly report updating the Directors on shareholders with a clear assessment of the Companys position the performance of the Group.
The Audit Committee has responsibility for oversight of corporate reporting, risk management and the Board evaluation Companys relationship with its auditor.
A full description of the An evaluation of the Board is undertaken on an annual basis to Audit Committees terms of reference is included in the Audit ensure that governance best practice standards are achieved Committee Report on pages 50 to 53. and upheld.
This years internal Board evaluation has focused on Board composition and succession planning and was led by the Significant risks to the business are kept under constant review Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee with regular and appropriate material controls are sanctioned and employed reporting to and input from the Board.
The Companys principal risks and examples of how we mitigate those risks are detailed on pages 28-31.
The evaluation framework sought views on: the effectiveness of the Board: REMUNERATION The Board believes in adopting remuneration packages that the mix of skills and experience on the Board: are appropriate for attracting, retaining and motivating Directors.
The Remuneration Committees report on Directors the performance of the Boards committees.
remuneration on pages 54 to 63 explains how remuneration The evaluation is ongoing whilst the Board goes through a period of packages and performance incentives are employed by the replacing Board members as they retire.
The Board has decided that Company at Board level.
The Remuneration Committee is an externally facilitated Board Evaluation will be undertaken during responsible for setting the Remuneration policy for the Board the 2012 13 financial year.
The development themes arising from the and ensures that no Director is involved in decisions affecting external evaluation process will be discussed in future reports.
Directors reappointment RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS In respect of Code provision B.
7.1, all Executive and Non-Executive Directors will retire and offer themselves for reappointment at Shareholder communications Presentations and webcasts on the development of the the 2012 AGM of the Company in compliance with the Code.
business are available to all shareholders on the Companys Conflicts of interest corporate website.
The Company also uses email alerts and Under UK company law, all Directors must seek authorisation actively promotes downloading of all reports enhancing speed before taking up any position with another company that and equality of shareholder communication.
The Company has conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the Companys interests.
taken full advantage of the provisions within the Companies The Companys articles of association contain provisions to Act 2006 allowing the website to be used as the primary ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 47 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report continued means of communication with shareholders where they have Our orderly programme of replacing Independent Non-Executive not requested hard copy documentation.
The shareholder Directors as they retire will continue into the 2012 13 financial information section on pages 129 to 130 contains further details year as Jacques Nasser has indicated that he does not intend to on electronic shareholder communications together with more stand for reappointment at the Companys 2012 AGM.
It was Lord general information of interest to shareholders which is also Wilson of Dintons intention to retire at this years AGM.
However, included on the Companys corporate website.
he has agreed to stand for reappointment in order to ensure that the Board has the correct balance of Independent Non-Executive Shareholder engagement Directors during the period in which we expect his replacement The Company is committed to maintaining and improving to be appointed.
This will ensure the Companys continued dialogue with shareholders in order to ensure that the objectives compliance with corporate governance best practice.
of both the Group and the shareholders are understood.
A programme of meetings with institutional shareholders, fund Succession planning is a key part of our annual programme and managers and analysts takes place each year.
The Company for each position we have reviewed the existing skill-set on the also makes presentations to analysts and investors around Board, specifically in terms of background, knowledge, experience the time of the half-year and full-year results announcement: and the diversity of the Board.
We have balanced this with the conference calls are held with analysts and investors following Companys strategic direction and objectives to ensure that the announcement of the first quarter and third quarter results, each appointment strengthens the Board so that it can help and and on occasion, following the announcement of the fourth challenge management to grow and take the business forward.
quarter results, and presentations are made during the year to We have used external consultants to help us with the many existing or potential shareholders at investor conferences.
recruitment process and members of the Corporate Governance The Board views the AGM as an opportunity to communicate & Nominations CGN Committee and the Chief Executive Officer with private investors and sets aside time at these meetings have met with a number of candidates throughout the year who for shareholders to ask questions of the Board.
At the AGM, the met the Committees criteria.
This programme will continue into Chairman provides a brief summary of the Companys activities the 2012 13 financial year.
The CGN Committee reviewed the roles for the previous year to the shareholders.
All resolutions at the and responsibilities of Directors and the membership of the Board 2011 AGM were voted by way of an electronic poll.
This follows and its Committees and a number of changes were recommended best practice and allows the Company to count all votes rather to the Board during the year.
Nicholas Ferguson has been than just those of shareholders attending the meeting.
As appointed Chairman, Thomas Mockridge has been appointed recommended by the Code, all resolutions were voted separately as Deputy Chairman and I have been appointed as the Senior and the voting results, which included all votes cast for, against Independent Non-Executive Director.
and those withheld, together with all proxies lodged prior to the This years Board evaluation process has focussed on the meeting, were indicated at the meeting and the final results were composition of the Board and its committees and succession released to the London Stock Exchange as soon as practicable planning.
In line with Corporate Governance best practice, the after the meeting.
The announcement was also made available on CGN Committee has decided to undertake an external board the Companys corporate website.
As in previous years, the proxy evaluation during the 2012 13 financial year which will ensure that form and the announcement of the voting results made it clear the views of our new Independent Non-Executive Directors are that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted captured as the Board is refreshed.
in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for or against the resolution.
The Board as a whole welcomes the opportunity to adapt to innovations and change within the field, and is actively CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & progressing initiatives such as addressing gender balance on NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE the Board, sourcing the right skills to complement our talented Chairmans overview management team, and creating robust succession plans to We have had an active year, safeguard the Companys future performance.
securing the appointment of Andrew Higginson three new Independent NonCommittee Chairman Executive Directors, Martin Gilbert, Matthieu Pigasse and Tracy Clarke Committee membership to succeed David Evans, Allan The CGN Committee is chaired by Andrew Higginson and its other Leighton and Dame Gail Rebuck on members are Lord Wilson of Dinton, Nicholas Ferguson, Daniel their retirement from the Board.
We also have a new Chairman, Rimer and Arthur Siskind.
The majority of the members of the Nicholas Ferguson, who replaced James Murdoch in April 2012.
CGN Committee are Independent Non-Executive Directors in compliance with the Code.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 48 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE Changes to the membership of the Committee during the The Board and the CGN Committee have noted the findings of year the Davies Review.
It is the CGN Committees intention to increase Lord Wilson of Dinton stepped down as Chairman of the CGN female representation on the Board.
Below Board level, women Committee on 1 May 2012 and Andrew Higginson was appointed account for 22% of senior management, which is an increase from in his place.
Daniel Rimer was recent years reflecting the Companys focus on ensuring that women are fairly represented in leadership and management appointed as a member of the CGN Committee on 1 May 2012. positions.
During the year the Company won the Women of the The role of the Committee Future Corporate Award 2011.
The Chairman reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
Its main duties include: The CGN Committee also reviewed the independence of the Non-Executive Directors and recommended to the Board that the identification and nomination, for approval by the Board, there be no changes to the independent status of the current of candidates to fill Board vacancies as they arise: Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors who are considered by the Board to be independent the drafting of requirements for a particular appointment to are clearly identified on pages 40 to 41.
The Boards criteria for the Board, taking into consideration the present balance of determining whether a Non-Executive Director is independent skills, knowledge and experience on the Board: are set out in the Memorandum on Corporate Governance which can be found on the Companys corporate website.
the regular review of the structure, size and composition of the Board and to recommend any changes to the Board or The CGN Committees review took into consideration the fact succession planning: that Jacques Nasser had served on the Board for more than nine years and it is his intention to retire at the Companys 2012 AGM.
the provision of a formal letter of appointment, setting out The CGN Committees review also took into consideration the clearly what is expected of new appointees to the Board, in fact that by the date of the Companys 2012 AGM Lord Wilson of terms of time commitment, term of office and committee Dinton will have served on the Board for more than nine years.
service as well as their duties and liabilities as a Director, Provision B.
1.1 of the Code suggests that serving more than nine including details of the Companys corporate governance years could be relevant to the determination of a Non-Executive policies and Directors and Officers liability insurance cover: Directors independence.
The CGN Committee concluded that and Lord Wilson of Dinton continued to demonstrate the essential the monitoring of the Companys compliance with applicable characteristics of independence expected by the Board and Corporate Governance Codes and other similar requirements.
that there are no relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, his judgment.
Activities during the year The CGN Committee reviewed the Boards conflicts during the During the year, the CGN Committee reviewed the Companys financial year and concluded that Directors conflicts had been Corporate Governance Memorandum which includes the terms of reference of the Board and its Committees and recommended appropriately authorised and that the process for authorisation amendments to the Board to reflect best practice.
The revised was operating effectively.
The CGN Committee and the Board will terms of reference were approved by the Board and are available continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest and on the Companys corporate website.
take action to mitigate them as necessary.
The CGN Committee has reviewed the composition of the Board THE BIGGER PICTURE COMMITTEE and its Committees and a formal recruitment process has been Chairmans overview followed to identify candidates who fulfil the Boards criteria.
We are building a sustainable This has been debated by the Board, and the CGN Committee business because this creates value and the Chief Executive Officer met with a number of potential for our customers and is critical candidates during the year.
An external recruitment consultancy, to building long-term success.
The JCA Group, has been used to help the CGN Committee identify Bigger Picture Committee provides possible candidates and run the recruitment process.
strategic leadership for the work we The CGN Committee recommended three candidates to the do at Sky to contribute positively Board during the year, Martin Gilbert, Matthieu Pigasse and to society.
From acting responsibly in our day-to-day operations Tracy Clarke.
All of these candidates have different backgrounds, to inspiring action across our focus areas of Environment, Sport, experience and skill sets which will help strengthen the Board and Arts and Schools, we make a difference in the communities where we live and work, and we give our customers and our people more improve its diversity.
reasons to join Sky and stay with us to enjoy all that we offer.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 49 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report continued Over the year we have continued to contribute to the UK The role of the Committee economy, investing in the growth and success of the creative The Chairman of The Bigger Picture Committee reports regularly industries.
Weve continued to make sure our products and to the Board on its activities.
The main duties of The Bigger services can be used by everyone, managed our environmental Picture Committee include: impact, created valuable partnerships with our suppliers, and reviewing and approving The Bigger Picture strategy: done even more to make Sky a great place to work.
seeking external stakeholders views on The Bigger Picture We reached our 4m fundraising target for Sky Rainforest strategy and performance: Rescue, our partnership with WWF to help save a billion trees in the Amazon rainforest, six months ahead of target.
We have reviewing and approving the annual reporting of The Bigger approved the extension of this work until 2015, and will focus on Picture activities: promoting sustainable alternatives to deforestation and using our position as a broadcaster and media company to drive even monitoring progress in achieving The Bigger Picture objectives greater awareness in the UK and Ireland.
and key performance indicators: We have also agreed four more years of support from grassroots ensuring the resources and skills are available to implement to elite cycling through our partnership with British Cycling, and The Bigger Picture strategy: and will continue to increase participation by backing the leading riders through our support of Team Sky and inspiring the next providing the Board with an overview of the social, generation to get involved.
Sky is now one of the largest investors environmental and ethical impacts of the Companys activities in arts on screen through the Sky Arts channels and on the and how they are being managed.
ground through the Sky Arts Ignition Series which is creating An overview of the Companys approach to being a responsible new ground-breaking art works, events and performances.
In business day to day and inspiring our customers to take action to February 2012 we were pleased to announce Tate Liverpool as make a difference is provided in the section on How we do business the first of six partners and are also looking forward to seeing the on pages 19 to 27 of the Directors report Business review.
work of the five talented young artists emerge over the coming year as we support them with mentoring and funding.
AUDIT COMMITTEE I am proud that for the first time we have been identified as one Chairmans overview of eleven globally leading companies in the Publishing Media During the year, the Audit sector of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
This recognition Committee continued to focus for what we do across Sky to make sure we contribute long-term on the financial performance of value to society is important to us, our investors and to the the Company, internal audit, risk markets in which we work.
management, compliance and financial governance.
The Audit Lastly, I would like to thank Dame Gail Rebuck for her leadership Committee has a standing agenda of The Bigger Picture Committee as it has evolved over her tenure which it reviews and works through each year.
This year the Audit Committee has received a number of James Murdoch presentations from the management of different operating units Committee Chairman to improve its understanding of their operations and the risks Committee Membership they face and how those risks are managed.
The Bigger Picture Committee is chaired by James Murdoch, and The Audit Committee has also reviewed the Groups its other members are Tracy Clarke and Lord Wilson of Dinton.
implementation of adequate procedures in relation to the Bribery Changes to the membership of the Committee during Act 2010, received presentations from the Chairman of the Data the year Governance Committee and received regular reports from the Dame Gail Rebuck resigned as Chairman of The Bigger Picture Companys internal audit function and external auditor.
Committee and as a member on 1 May 2012 and James Murdoch During the year the Company concluded a review of editorial was appointed Chairman in her place.
Tracy Clarke became practices at Sky News.
While there had been no allegation of a member of The Bigger Picture Committee following her impropriety at Sky News, the Company undertook the review at appointment to the Board on 11 June 2012. its instigation as part of its commitment to acting responsibly across all areas of Skys business.
Reporting to the Audit Committee, the process included the review of emails of a ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 50 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE number of key Sky News journalists by the Companys external The role of the Committee legal advisors, Herbert Smith.
The review concluded in April 2012 The Chairman reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
Its and found no evidence of impropriety or cause for concern.
main duties include: Separately, the Audit Committee undertook a review of the way making recommendations to the Board in relation to the in which the Company approached two separate investigations appointment, reappointment and removal of the external undertaken by Sky News.
In each of the investigations a Sky News auditor and discussing with the external auditor the nature, journalist accessed the email of individuals suspected of criminal scope and fees for the external auditors work: activity.
Following a thorough review of each of those cases, the Audit Committee concluded that the action was justified in the reviewing and making recommendations to the Board public interest and subject to proper editorial oversight.
regarding the approval, or any amendment to, the quarterly, half year and annual financial statements of the Group: We welcomed two new members to the Audit Committee, Martin Gilbert and Matthieu Pigasse, who both have extensive recent reviewing the Groups significant accounting policies: and relevant financial experience in the fund management and investment banking sectors.
Allan Leighton, a former Chairman reviewing the Groups systems of internal control: of the Audit Committee, and Dame Gail Rebuck retired from the reviewing the Groups treasury policies: Board and as members of the Audit Committee during the year and I would like to thank them both for their valued contribution recommending the appointment of the Groups Director: to the work of the Audit Committee.
Audit, Risk Management and Compliance: Andrew Higginson reviewing the audit plan and findings of the Groups internal Committee Chairman audit function: Committee Membership monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups The Audit Committee, which consists exclusively of Independent internal audit function: Non-Executive Directors, in compliance with the Code, has clearly defined terms of reference as laid down by the Board.
approving all non-audit services provided by the Groups The Audit Committee is chaired by Andrew Higginson and the external auditor in accordance with the Groups policy: other members are Matthieu Pigasse and Martin Gilbert.
The CFO and representatives from the external auditor and the internal monitoring the Groups whistle-blowing policy: audit department attend meetings at the request of the Audit News UK Nominees Limited, a subsidiary of News Corporation, Committee.
The CEO and other business and finance executives is a major shareholder in the Group.
The Audit Committee attend meetings from time to time.
The Audit Committee receives, on a quarterly basis, a schedule of all transactions Chairman reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
between companies within the News Corporation group and David DeVoe and Arthur Siskind have a standing invitation to the Group, and any other related party transactions, showing attend meetings of the Audit Committee.
Their attendance at all transactions which have been entered into during the year these meetings is as observers only and in a non-voting capacity.
and which cumulatively exceed 100,000 in value: Changes to the membership of the Committee during the Audit Committee approval is required for the entering into year by the Group of a commitment or arrangement or any Allan Leighton stepped down as a member of the Audit series of related commitments or arrangements with News Committee on 29 November 2011 and Dame Gail Rebuck stepped Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, or any other related down on 11 June 2012.
Matthieu Pigasse was appointed as a party which involves or could reasonably involve the payment member of the Audit Committee on 1 May 2012 and Martin or receipt by the Group of amounts equal to or in excess Gilbert was appointed on 11 June 2012.
There was a period during of 10 million, but not exceeding 25 million in aggregate the year between Allan Leightons retirement from the Board value with News Corporation.
Any transaction in excess of and the Audit Committee on 29 November 2011 and Matthieu 25 million in aggregate value must be submitted to the Audit Committee and, if approved by the Audit Committee, must Pigasses appointment as a member of the Audit Committee on also be submitted to the full Board for approval.
1 May 2012, that the Audit Committees membership fell to two Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The meeting of the Audit The Audit Committee members have considerable financial Committee held on 30 January 2012 was held prior to Mr Pigasses and business experience and the Board considers that the appointment to the Committee.
There were no other meetings membership as a whole has sufficient recent and relevant held without three Independent Non-Executive Directors being financial experience to discharge its functions.
In addition, the present from 29 November 2011 to 1 May 2012.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 51 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report continued Board has determined that each member of the Audit Committee approved the Groups Risk Management Policy and Standards.
has sufficient accounting or related financial management Other expertise as required by the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and reviewed quarterly security updates which include whistleTransparency Rules.
blowing: Activities during the year reviewed quarterly related party transactions reports: and The Audit Committee met six times during the financial year.
Meeting agendas were organised around the Companys financial reviewed the Groups implementation of adequate reporting cycle and items covered were as follows: procedures in relation to the Bribery Act 2010.
Financial management and reporting The Audit Committee also received updates from the Director of received regular updates from the CFO on the financial Group Security, the Chairman of the Data Governance Committee performance and financial management of the Group: and the Director of People on health and safety.
reviewed the Companys Annual Report, half-yearly results The external auditors attended five meetings of the Audit and interim management statements: Committee during the year.
The Director: Audit, Risk Management and Compliance has direct access to the Committee Chairman reviewed the Groups accounting policies: and and the external audit partner.
received quarterly reports from the treasury function on the Internal control and risk management funding, liquidity and operational capabilities of the Group The Directors have overall responsibility for establishing and and compliance with treasury policies.
maintaining the Groups systems of internal control and risk Internal control management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems considered the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls are designed to manage, and where possible eliminate, the risk of over financial reporting: failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or reviewed the internal audit departments resources and loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and annual audit plan: managing the significant risks faced by the Group in accordance with the revised guidance on internal control issued by the reviewed quarterly reports from internal audit on the results Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
During the period of its audit work and managements implementation of its under review no significant failings or weaknesses were identified.
recommendations: The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the received quarterly updates from internal audit on the status effectiveness of the operation of the Groups systems of internal of Senior Accounting Officer SAO certification work to control and risk management during the year and this review ensure SAO compliance: and has been carried out for the year ended 30 June 2012 and up to the date on which the financial statements were approved.
evaluated the effectiveness of the internal audit department.
This review relates to the Company and its subsidiaries and does External Audit Matters not extend to joint ventures.
The Audit Committee meets on received regular reports from the external auditor: at least a quarterly basis with the Groups Director: Audit, Risk Management and Compliance and the external auditors.
reviewed and approved the 2011 12 audit work plan: There is a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting process, and received regular updates on the use of non-audit services the annual budget, which is regularly reviewed and updated, is provided by the external auditor and ensured that all services approved by the Board.
Performance is monitored against budget and fees were approved in accordance with the Groups policy: through weekly and monthly reporting cycles.
During the financial year under review monthly reports on performance were provided reviewed the effectiveness, quality of work and independence to the Board and the Group reports to shareholders each quarter.
of the external auditor: and In respect of Group financial reporting, the Group finance team approved the re-appointment, remuneration and is responsible for preparing the Group financial statements and engagement letter of the external auditor.
there are well established controls over the financial reporting process.
These are also documented in line with the requirements Risk management of the SAO legislation and the controls are reviewed and signed reviewed the Groups Risk Register: off to confirm their continuous operation by the control owners received risk presentations from various business areas: and twice a year and are independently tested by the internal audit ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 52 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE team.
The results of the SAO testing are reported to the Audit The policy defines the types of services falling under each Committee on a quarterly basis.
category and sets out the criteria which need to be met and the internal approval mechanisms required to be completed There are risk registers which identify the risks faced by the prior to any engagement.
An analysis of all services provided by Group and these are consolidated into a Group Risk Register.
The the external auditor is reviewed by the Audit Committee on a registers detail the controls that manage the risks and, where quarterly basis.
necessary, the action plans to mitigate the risk exposure.
The business develops the action plans and the internal audit team For the year ended 30 June 2012, the Audit Committee has monitor their implementation.
The Audit Committee formally reviewed audit independence and scope of non-audit services reviews the Group Risk Register twice a year and there is a rolling and independence safeguards with Deloitte LLP, the Groups programme where senior executives from the business present external auditor.
As part of the review, the Audit Committee has their risk management plans.
The Groups principal risks and received and reviewed confirmation in writing that, in Deloitte uncertainties are detailed in the Business Review.
LLPs professional judgment, Deloitte LLP is independent within the meaning of all UK regulatory and professional requirements The internal audit team provides objective assurance as to the and the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk staff is not impaired.
management to the Groups operating management and to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee was satisfied throughout the year that the objectivity and independence of Deloitte LLP was not in any way Disclosure controls and procedures impaired by either the nature of the non-audit related services The Company maintains disclosure controls, procedures and undertaken during the year, the level of non-audit fees charged, systems that are designed to ensure that information required or any other facts or circumstances.
Services provided during to be disclosed as part of the Companys UK listing obligations is the year were approved by the Audit Committee.
An analysis of accumulated and communicated to management, including the auditor remuneration is disclosed in note 6 to the consolidated CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding financial statements.
The appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Groups external The Company has established a Disclosure Committee.
The auditor incumbents since 2002 is kept under review.
The Audit committee is chaired by the Company Secretary and its members Committee has approved the external auditors remuneration consist of senior managers from group finance, legal and investor and terms of engagement and is fully satisfied with the relations.
It has responsibility for considering the materiality performance, objectivity, quality of challenge and independence of information including inside information and, on a timely of the external auditor.
The Audit Committee has recommended basis, determination of the disclosure and treatment of such that a resolution to reappoint the external auditor as the information.
The Disclosure Committee also has responsibility for Companys statutory auditors be proposed at the Companys overseeing the process for the formal review of the contents of forthcoming AGM.
The external auditor is required to rotate the the Companys Annual Report.
audit partner responsible for the engagement every five years.
The current lead partner started his term of office in relation to Changes in internal controls the 2010 11 financial year.
No change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting has occurred during the year ended 30 June 2012 that has Data Governance materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the The Data Governance Committee the DG Committee reports Groups internal control over financial reporting.
The role of the DG Committee is to ensure that appropriate procedures and controls are in place to Use of external auditor ensure that the Group processes personal data in accordance The Group has a policy on the provision by the external auditor with Data Protection laws, and that individuals are able to of audit and non-audit services, which categorises such services exercise their rights under such laws.
A set of policies has been between: updated and further developed under the DG Committee to outline and promote consistent standards and practices in the those services which the auditor is not permitted to provide: collection and use of personal data across the Group.
The policies those services which are acceptable for the auditor to provide also set out the responsibilities of employees in managing and the provision of which has been pre-approved by the personal data and the escalation process to be followed, should Audit Committee: and employees become aware of any breach of policy.
those services for which the specific approval of the Audit Directors responsibilities Committee is required before the auditor is permitted to The responsibilities of the Directors are set out on page 67. provide the service.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 53
