DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE O Other governanc ther governance and statutory disclosur e and statutory disclosures es continued Interests in voting rights BUSINESS REVIEW Information provided to the Company pursuant to the UK Listing The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out in Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs is published the Directors Report a fair review of the business of the Group on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
during the financial year ended 30 June 2012 including an analysis As at 25 July 2012, the Company had been notified under DTR5 of of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year, and the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares.
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group known as a Business Review.
The purpose of the Business Amount Percent of Identity of person or group owned class Review is to enable shareholders to assess how the Directors have i News UK Nominees Limited 654,974,065 39.14 performed their duty under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006.
Capital Research and Management ii The information that fulfils the Business Review requirements Company 90,751,601 5.18 ii can be found in the following sections of the Directors Report.
BlackRock, Inc. 88,682,765 5.06 ii The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 55,977,854 3.10 Chief Executive Officers statement on pages 4 to 6 i Direct holding which is subject to restrictions on its voting rights please see Our performance KPIs on pages 10 to 11 Voting rights below.
Review of our business on pages 12 to 27 At 25 July 2012, 39.14% of the Companys shares are held by Financial and operating review on pages 32 to 38 News UK Nominees Limited, a company incorporated under Principal risks and uncertainties that face the Group are the laws of England and Wales which is an indirect wholly described on pages 28 to 31 owned subsidiary of News Corporation.
As a result of Rupert Significant trends that could have a material effect on the Murdochs ability to appoint certain members of the Board of performance of the Group are described on pages 37 to 38 Directors of the corporate trustee of the Murdoch Family Trust, which beneficially owns less than 1% of News Corporations People matters and community and environmental matters are Class A Common Stock and 38.4% of its Class B Common Stock, described in the How we do business section on pages 19 to 27.
Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to be a beneficial owner of the Pages 4 to 66 inclusive together with the sections incorporated shares beneficially owned by the Murdoch Family Trust.
Rupert by reference consist of a Directors Report that has been drawn Murdoch, however, disclaims any beneficial ownership of those up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon shares.
Also, Rupert Murdoch beneficially owns less than 1% of applicable English company law and the liabilities of the Directors News Corporations Class A Common Stock and an additional in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations 1.3% of its Class B Common Stock.
Thus, Rupert Murdoch may and restrictions provided by the law.
be deemed to beneficially own in the aggregate less than 1% of News Corporations Class A Common Stock and 39.7% of its Class Principal activities B Common Stock, although, as stated above, Rupert Murdoch British Sky Broadcasting Group plc is the holding company of disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares of News Corporation the British Sky Broadcasting group of companies.
The Groups beneficially owned by the Murdoch Family Trust.
principal activities are detailed in the Review of our business on pages 12 to 27.
The Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP was established to satisfy awards made to participants of the Companys employee Results and dividends share plans.
The trustees of the ESOP have waived the right to The profit for the year ended 30 June 2012 was 906 million dividends payable in respect of the shares held by it, except to 2011: 810 million.
The Directors recommend a final dividend for the extent of 0.0001% of the dividend payable on each share.
the year ended 30 June 2012 of 16.20 pence per ordinary share At 30 June 2012, the ESOP had an interest in 16,293,345 of the which, together with the interim dividend of 9.20 pence paid to Companys ordinary shares.
The Trustees, who are independent of shareholders on 24 April 2012, will make a total dividend for the the Company, have full discretion on how they vote the ordinary year of 25.40 pence 2011: 23.28 pence.
Subject to approval at shares held by the ESOP.
the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 16 November 2012 to shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business Voting rights on 26 October 2012.
The Companys articles of association provide that subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of Share capital hands every member present in person or by proxy shall have one The Companys issued ordinary share capital at 30 June 2012 vote, and on a poll every member shall have one vote for every comprised one class of ordinary shares.
All of the issued ordinary share of which he is a holder.
On a poll, votes may be given either shares are fully paid and rank equally in all respects.
Further personally or by proxy or in the case of a corporate member by a details of the Companys share capital is disclosed in notes 25 duly authorised representative.
and 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 64 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting On 25 July 2012, the Board agreed to seek the necessary may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote instead of approvals to return a further 500 million of capital to him.
If a member appoints more than one proxy he must specify shareholders via a share buy-back programme.
Shareholder the number of shares which each proxy is entitled to exercise rights approvals will be sought at the Companys AGM on 1 November over.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
The Company has entered into an agreement with News of the Companys ordinary shares do not have cumulative voting Corporation under which, following any market purchases rights.
A voting agreement dated 21 September 2005 was entered of shares by the Company, News Corporation will sell to into between the Company, BSkyB Holdco Inc, News Corporation the Company sufficient shares to maintain its percentage and News UK Nominees Limited which became unconditional on shareholding at the same level as applied prior to those market 4 November 2005 and caps News UK Nominees Limiteds voting purchases.
The price payable to News Corporation will be the rights at any general meeting at 37.19%.
The provisions of the price payable by the Company in respect of the relevant market voting agreement cease to apply on the first to occur of a number purchases.
The agreement is conditional on the appropriate of circumstances which include the date on which a general offer shareholder approvals being granted.
The effect of the is made by an independent person as defined in the voting agreement is to provide that there will be no change in News agreement for the ordinary share capital of the Company.
Corporations economic or voting interests in the Company as a result of the share buy-back programme.
Restrictions on transfer of securities There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities Articles of association in the Company, which is governed by the articles of association The Companys articles of association may only be amended by and prevailing legislation, nor is the Company aware of any special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
agreements between holders of securities that may result in Board of Directors restrictions on the transfer of securities or that may result in The names and biographical details of the Directors of the restrictions on voting rights.
Company are given on pages 40 to 41.
Variation of rights The Directors interests in the ordinary shares and options Subject to the Companies Act 2006, rights attached to any class of the Company are disclosed within the report on Directors of shares may be varied with the consent in writing of the holders remuneration on pages 60 to 66. of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the Appointment and retirement of Directors class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more separate general meeting of the shareholders.
Any such Director shall hold office only until the Directors powers in relation to the Company issuing and next AGM and shall then be eligible for reappointment by the buying back its own shares Companys shareholders.
At the Companys 2012 AGM all current The Directors were granted authority at the 2011 AGM to allot Executive and Non-Executive Directors will retire.
It is the relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 289,000,000.
This intention that Jacques Nasser will not seek reappointment but authority will apply until the conclusion of this years AGM.
An all the other Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors will ordinary resolution to provide the Directors with an authority to offer themselves for reappointment in accordance with provision allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 273,000,000 B.
will be proposed at the 2012 AGM.
A special resolution will also Alternate Directors be proposed to renew the Directors powers to make nonpre-emptive issues for cash in connection with rights issues and A Director may appoint any other Director or any other person otherwise up to a nominal amount of 41,000,000. to act as his Alternate.
An Alternate Director shall be entitled to receive notice of and attend meetings of the Directors and On 29 November 2011, at the Companys AGM, the Board was committees of Directors of which his appointer is a member and granted the authority to return 750 million of capital to not able to attend.
The Alternate Director shall be entitled to vote shareholders via a share buy-back programme.
This authority at such meetings and generally perform all the functions of his was subject to an agreement between the Company and News appointer as a Director in his absence.
UK Nominees Limited and others dated 28 July 2011 whereby following any market purchases of shares by the Company, On the resignation of the appointer for any reason the Alternate News Corporation would sell to the Company sufficient shares Director shall cease to be an Alternate Director.
The appointer to maintain its percentage shareholding at the same level as may also remove his Alternate Director by notice to the Company applied prior to those market purchases.
The price payable to Secretary signed by the appointer revoking the appointment.
An News Corporation would be the price payable by the Company in Alternate Director shall not be entitled to fees for his service as an Alternate Director.
respect of the relevant market purchases.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 65 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE Other governance and statutory disclosures continued Thomas Mockridge, David DeVoe, Arthur Siskind and James position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are Murdoch have appointed each of the others to act as their described in the financial and operating review on pages 32 to Alternate Director.
In addition, notes 22, 23 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements include details of the Groups treasury activities, long Significant agreements term funding arrangements, financial instruments and hedging Details of any significant agreements that take effect, alter or activities and exposure to financial risk.
terminate on a change of control of the Company, are disclosed in the review of the business on pages 18 and 19.
As set out above, the Group has sufficient financial resources which, together with internally generated cash flows, will Payment policy continue to provide sufficient sources of liquidity to fund its The policy of the Group is to agree terms of payment with current operations, including its contractual and commercial suppliers prior to entering into a contractual relationship.
In the commitments as set out on pages 111 to 112, its approved capital absence of a specific agreement, it is the policy of the Group to expenditure and any proposed dividends, and the Group is well pay suppliers in accordance with its standard payment terms of placed to manage its business risks successfully, despite the 45 days.
The Group had below 45 days purchases outstanding current economic outlook.
at 30 June 2012 2011: below 45 days, based on the total amount invoiced by non-programme trade suppliers during the year After making enquiries, the Directors have formed the judgment, ended 30 June 2012.
Programme creditors include significant at the time of approving the consolidated financial statements, balances which are not yet contractually due.
In respect of that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has amounts both contractually due and invoiced, the outstanding adequate resources to continue in operational existence for number of days purchases is below 45 days 2011: below 45 days.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated Financial instruments financial statements.
Details of the Groups use of financial instruments, together with information on our financial risk management objectives and Disclosure of information to auditors policies, and our exposure to financial risks can be found in note In accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Companies Act 2006, each of the persons who are Directors of the Company at the date of approval of this report confirms that: Charitable contributions and community and environmental activities so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit During the financial year, Sky contributed 5,208,632 to charities information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of which for the purpose of supporting Bigger Picture activities focusing the Companys auditor is unaware: and on responsibility, environment, sport, arts and cycling.
These the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to contributions were made to Skys key charity partners Youth have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any Sports Trust, British Cycling, WWF, Global Action Plan and the Hay, relevant audit information as defined and to establish that Cheltenham, Bath and Brighton literature festivals.
We also made the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
contributions to charities through our employee matched fundraising Auditors and payroll giving activities and our volunteering initiatives.
Deloitte LLP, the auditors of the Company, have expressed An overview of how Sky makes a positive difference to UK and their willingness to continue in office.
A resolution to reappoint Irish society through its Bigger Picture programme is provided them as the Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors in the section on How we do business on pages 19 to 27 of the to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Directors report Business review.
In addition Sky will publish an forthcoming AGM.
in-depth summary of its Bigger Picture activities in September Annual General Meeting 2012 and in this will outline Skys total community investment The notice convening the AGM, to be held at The Queen using the London Benchmarking Group model.
Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, Additional information can be found at www.
com London SW1P 3EE on 1 November 2012 at 11.00am, is available for thebiggerpicture.
download from the Companys corporate website at www.
Political contributions Political contributions of the Group in the UK during 2012 By order of the Board, amounted to nil 2011: nil.
Dave Gormley Going concern Company Secretary The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to 25 July 2012 affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the review of the business on pages 12 to 27.
The financial ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 66
