Our Board and Committees as at 6 March 2013 Our Board has extensive experience of operating public listed companies in international markets.
Christopher Rodrigues CBE Gerard Ryan David Broadbent Tony Hales CBE Chairman, age 63 Chief Executive officer, age 48 Finance Director, age 44 Senior independent nonexecutive director, age 64 Christopher joined the Board Gerard joined the Board of David joined the Board of Tony joined the Board of of International Personal International Personal Finance International Personal Finance International Personal Finance Finance plc in 2007 at the time plc in January 2012 as Chief plc as Finance Director in 2007. plc as a non-executive director of the demerger from Provident Executive officer Designate in 2007.
Financial plc, serving as and became Chief Executive Qualications: Graduated in Executive Chairman until officer at the beginning of Classics, has an MBA and is a Qualications: Graduated in October 2008 when the April 2012. chartered accountant.
Qualications: Fellow of Previous appointments: Other appointments: Chartered Accountants Senior Manager with Chairman of Canal & River Qualications: Graduated Ireland.
, Trust, a non-executive director in Economics and Economic Financial Controller and later of Capital & Regional plc and History and has an MBA.
Previous appointments: Chief Finance Director of the a board member of The Financial officer of Garanti International Division of Services Sound and Vision Other appointments: Bank, Turkey and Chief Provident Financial plc.
He is also a Chairman of VisitBritain, Executive officer of GE Money director of Welsh National Almeida Theatre Company Bank, Prague: Chief Executive Opera Limited.
Limited and The Windsor officer for Citis consumer Leadership Trust, a nonfinance businesses in the Previous appointments: Chief executive director of Ladbrokes Western Europe, Middle East Executive of Allied Domecq plc and an advisor to Monitise and Africa region: director of plc, Chairman of Workspace plc: he is on the Council, and Citi International plc, Egg plc Group plc and NAAFI, and a a Trustee of the National Trust and Morgan Stanley Smith non-executive director of and is an executive committee Barney UK.
Provident Financial plc, Welsh member of the World Tourism Water plc, Aston Villa plc, HSBC and Travel Council.
Bank plc and Reliance Security Group plc.
Previous appointments: Chief Executive of Thomas Cook, Chief Executive of Bradford and Bingley, board member of the Financial Services Authority, President and Chief Executive of Visa International and Joint Deputy Chairman of Provident Financial plc.
Executive Committee Disclosure Committee Committees Gerard Ryan Chairman Gerard Ryan Chairman David Broadbent David Broadbent Ben Murphy 36 International Personal Finance plc Directors Report: Governance Edyta Kurek John Lorimer Richard Moat Nicholas Page Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive director, age 46 director, age 58 director, age 60 director, age 60 Edyta joined the Board of Richard joined the Board of Nicholas joined the Board of John joined the Board of International Personal Finance International Personal Finance International Personal Finance International Personal Finance plc as a non-executive director plc as a non-executive director plc as a non-executive director plc as a non-executive director in February 2010. in July 2012. in 2007. in May 2010.
Qualications: Graduated Qualications: Graduated in Qualications: Graduated in Qualications: Graduated in Nuclear Engineering.
Law and is a Fellow of the in Philosophy, Politics and Association of Chartered Economics and is a Fellow Other appointments: Vice Certied Accountants.
of the Institute of Chartered Other appointments: NonPresident Nordics, East Europe, Accountants in England executive director of Aberdeen Middle East and France.
New Dawn Investment Trust Other appointments: Chief and Wales.
Financial officer of Eircom plc, The British United Provident Previous appointments: Limited, an advisory board Other appointments: NonAssociation Limited BUPA and Positions in Oriame Poland Sp.
member of Tiaxa, Inc Chile, executive director of RSM The Benets Express Limited.
Trustee of the Peter Jones Tenon Group plc: Chair of and General Manager of Previous appointments: Senior Foundation, and Chair of the C. A. R. E. Europe 1 S. a. r. l. and Herbalife Polska Sp.
z o. o. ACCA Accountants for Business positions with Standard C. A. R. E. Europe 2 S. a. r. l. Global Forum.
Chartered Bank including Previous appointments: Chief Group Head of Compliance Previous appointments: Deputy Operating officer of Travelex and Regulatory Risk and Citigroup, Chairman of CAF Chief Executive officer and plc, Managing Director of Chief Finance officer of Bank Ltd and a director of Hambro Insurance Services Everything Everywhere Limited, plc, executive director of Welsh National Opera Limited.
Managing Director of T-Mobile Hambros Bank and Joint John will leave the Board on UK Limited, Chief Executive Deputy Chairman of Hambro 25 April 2013. officer of Orange Romania SA, Group Investments, and a Orange Denmark A S and non-executive director of Orange Thailand Limited.
MoneyGram International Limited and Collins Stewart Hawkpoint plc.
Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit and Risk Committee Christopher Rodrigues Chairman Tony Hales Chairman Nicholas Page Chairman Gerard Ryan John Lorimer Tony Hales Tony Hales Nicholas Page John Lorimer Edyta Kurek Richard Moat John Lorimer Nicholas Page Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 37
