Our strategy We have made good progress against our strategy and it is building momentum.
Our strategy for growth We intend to grow the business in our existing Expand footprint markets and in new countries in Europe We will provide more digital channels Improve customer engagement and new products We will use marketing skills to gain a better Develop a sales culture understanding of our customers We will invest in technology to execute Execution our strategy more efficiently Strategy for growth Both new countries provide the opportunity to expand In July we announced our new strategy to accelerate into markets adjacent to our existing European growth and increase shareholder value.
Bulgaria 7.2 million population will be is well embedded into the business and is building managed by our team in Romania and Lithuania momentum.
The four key areas of focus are: 3.2 million population will be led by management in Poland.
Our adjacent market strategy should shorten s EXPAND OUR GEOGRAPHIC FOOTPRINT the J-curve by leveraging our existing infrastructure s IMPROVE CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT and, therefore, reduce costs compared with a s DEVELOP OUR SALES CULTURE AND standalone market entry.
s IMPROVE OUR SKILLS BASE AND TECHNOLOGY to execute the strategy.
Improve customer engagement Today our customers rate their experience with us very highly, but it is vital that we constantly evolve to keep We began the process of strategy development with pace with the way our customers behaviours are a management restructuring exercise.
This means we will have to offer customers the role of the UK head ofce and management a broader portfolio through which they can engage resource required in-market to strike a better balance with us, including more automated channels and a between operations and the rest of the business and larger range of products.
We intend to invest more enable accelerated delivery of the new strategy.
The time and energy in understanding fully the different restructure was completed as planned in the second segments of our customer base so our interactions half of the year and the collaborative partnerships with customers are more tailored and more between our UK and market teams are now working successfully meet their specic needs.
more effectively in delivering both product and operational execution.
In addition, we will actively engage with credit bureaux where there is a viable option to further Expand footprint enhance our credit management systems.
We aim to grow the business in our existing markets and in new countries, organically and through bolt on acquisitions, should the appropriate opportunities arise.
After a process of detailed evaluation, we plan to expand our footprint with two new market entries into Bulgaria and Lithuania in 2013.
12 International Personal Finance plc Directors Report: Business Review We plan to expand our footprint with new market entries into Bulgaria and Lithuania.
In 2012, we commenced our new product Field management and agents have a key role development programme.
Our preferential pricing to play in delivering faster growth.
A number of product, which rewards our most loyal customers with initiatives have been introduced this year to reduced interest rates, was rolled out in Slovakia after a increase engagement of our people, and reward successful pilot.
This has since been launched as a pilot management and agents for growth.
in Poland and Hungary with further tests planned in Execution other markets later this year.
This initiative has been very well received by our customers as well as our agents Our future success will be enhanced by better use who welcome the opportunity to reward and retain of technology and we are currently undertaking a their best customers by offering a better interest rate.
series of significant developments on this front.
This is We introduced longer-term loans in three markets a a multi-year programme that will help us to meet the 90-week loan in Poland and a 100-week product in needs of an expanding business and a far more both the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
These loans are technology adept consumer.
being offered to high-quality customers and the initial results are promising.
Longer, larger loans appeal to our The final but very important element of our new customers changing needs and will help with strategy is a rm commitment to our shareholders to acquisition and retention.
We have also started a pilot make our balance sheet work harder on their behalf.
in our Hungarian business to sell home insurance with a third party insurer through our existing infrastructure.
Our publicly stated targeted level of equity to receivables is 55% and this is based on the current macroeconomic environment and our funding Preferential pricing has been very structure.
To the extent that we do not have a specic investment opportunity for capital in excess of this well received by our customers as level, we will nd an efficient means of returning this well as our agents who welcome surplus to shareholders.
With this in mind, we successfully completed our first share buyback the opportunity to reward and in the second half of the year, purchasing and retain their best customers by cancelling 25 million worth of shares.
It is clear that each of our businesses is now fully engaged with our new Strategy for Growth and since its rollout we have made good progress on many Develop a sales culture fronts.
The changes we made to the structure and Our intention is to achieve a subtle change in the roles of our head ofce functions are already paying balance of how we do business.
This will see us move dividends and the increased level of collaboration from an entirely process driven approach to one across the business is helping us to move forward at a where marketing knowledge and expertise play faster pace.
Our technology overhaul will take some a far greater role in determining how we seek out time to complete, but the foundations are being put new growth opportunities.
We remain confident and enthusiastic about our prospects for growth in 2013 and beyond.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 13
