International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Policy As a Company with a Premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, it is required to comply or explain in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code as revised by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 and amended in October 2011 the UK &RGH, W LV DOVR WKH &RPSDQ V SROLF WR FRPSO ZLWK best practice on good corporate governance that is applicable to investment companies.
The Board of the Company has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Code and the UK Listing AXWKRULW 8.
$ Listing Rules, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to investment companies.
The Financial Reporting Council and the Guernsey Financial Services Commission have confirmed that so far as investment companies are concerned it considers that companies who comply with the AIC Code will be treated as meeting their obligations under the UK Code, Listing Rules and the Guernsey Code.
7KH $, & &RGH SURYLGHV D FRPSO RU H[SODLQ FRGH RI FRUSRUDWH JRYHUQDQFH GHVLJQHG HVSHFLDOO IRU WKH needs of investment companies.
The Company is a member of the AIC.
The Company has reviewed its compliance with the AIC Code October 2010 and includes in this report any instances where it is not in full compliance.
The Board has determined that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which the Financial Reporting Council has confirmed should meet the &RPSDQ V REOLJDWLRQV LQ UHODWLRQ WR WKH UK Code and relevant UKLA Listing Rules will provide more appropriate information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with all the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except as noted out below.
x 7KH UROH RI WKH FKLHI H[HFXWLYH DQG H[HFXWLYH GLUHFWRUV UHPXQHUDWLRQ $V DQ, QYHVWPHQW &RPSDQ PRVW RI WKH &RPSDQ V GD WR day responsibilities are delegated to third parties.
It does not have any executive directors.
It is therefore unnecessary to set out the responsibilities of a chief executive or outline the remuneration policies for executive directors.
x Annual re-election of all directors In accordance with the articles of association, at least one third of the Independent Directors will retire at each Annual General Meeting whilst Mr Frost as the non-independent Director will retire at each Annual General Meeting.
The Board notes the AIC Code recommendation that all Directors be re-elected on an annual basis but considers that in the specific circumstances applying to the Company that this is not in the best interests of shareholders.
The Company holds this view mainly duH WR WKH VSHFLDOLVW QDWXUH RI WKH &RPSDQ V DVVHWV ZKLFK DUH ORQJ-term in nature and benefit from a consistent approach across years both in terms of management and Board supervision.
As such the Company takes the view that the benefits to shareholders ariVLQJ IURP WKH 'LUHFWRUV ORQJ WHUP knowledge and experience of these underlying assets and their management including their ongoing ability to review the performance of the Investment Advisor and other advisors outweighs the benefit of annual re-election being applied to all directors.
However, during the current year in addition to Mr Frost, Ms Whittet as a new member to the Board appointed during 2012 and Mr Whittle DV SDUW RI WKH %RDUGV QRUPDO URWDWLRQ SURFHVV ZLOO DOVR UHWLUH DQG VHHN UH-election.
x The need for an internal audit function The Company has engaged an independent third party to perform reviews over selected controls and processes, the focus of which is agreed by the Board on an annual basis which is more appropriate for company which is externally advised.
51 International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report continued Board Structure The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors, whose biographies, on page 41 to 44, demonstrate a breadth of investment and business experience.
As the Chairman of the Board is an independent non-executive and there are no executive directors, the Board considers it unnecessary to appoint a senior independent Director.
Name Position Independent Date Appointed Keith Dorrian Non-Executive Chairman Yes 2 August 2006 Rupert Dorey Non-Executive Director Yes 2 August 2006 Chairman Audit Committee Giles Frost Non-Executive Director No 2 August 2006 John Whittle Non-Executive Director Yes 6 August 2009 Claire Whittet Non-Executive Director Yes 10 September 2012 As noted above, Ms Carol Goodwin an independent non-executive Director was a member of the Board until 31 December 2012.
Q DGYDQFH RI 0V RRGZLQV UHWLUHPHQW 0V &ODLUH :KLWWHW ZDV DSSRLQWHG Wo the Board in September 2012.
Ms Whittet was appointed after the Board completed a search for a suitable director having canvassed its advisors and other market participants for a list of suitable candidates.
Given the high calibre of applicants through this process the Board did not engage a search consultancy or advertise further.
The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors and is chaired by Mr Dorrian.
One third of the Directors retire by rotation at every AGM and will therefore be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Mr Frost is not an independent director, all other Directors are considered by the Board to be LQGHSHQGHQW RI WKH &RPSDQ V LQYHVWPHQW DGYLVRU Any Directors appointed to the Board since the previous AGM also retire and stand for re-election.
The Chairman and the independent directors take the lead in any discussions relating to the appointment or re-appointment of directors taking into account the expertise of the candidates and their independence.
The Board meets at least four times a year and in addition there is regular contact between the Board, the Investment Advisor and the Administrator and the Board requires to be supplied in a timely manner with information by the Investment Advisor, the Company Secretary and other advisors in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Management Engagement Committee which is a sub-committee of the Board regularly reviews the performance of the Investment Advisor and the &RPSDQ V RWKHU advisors and major service suppliers to ensure that performance is satisfactory and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the respective appointments.
In accordance with its usual practice an evaluation of the performance of individual Directors and the Chairman was carried out during the year which concluded that the Board is performing satisfactorily in the eight areas reviewed which incorporated: Board composition and meeting process, Board information, training, Board dynamics, shareholder value, Board accountability and effectiveness and the performance of the Chairman.
52 International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report continued The Board is committed to maintaining the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience among its members to ensure strong leadership of the Company.
When appointing Board members, its priority will always be one of meritocracy, but will be influenced by the strong desire to maintain board diversity, including gender.
The Board currently has one female director, out of its five members, which has been the gender ratio almost since inception of the Company.
New Directors receive an induction from the Investment Advisor on joining the Board, and in consultation with the Chairman all Directors are entitled to receive other relevant ongoing training as necessary.
In accordance with the UK Code requirements, the Board will consider the need for an externally facilitated evaluation of the Board at least every three years.
No external valuation has been undertaken during the year KRZHYHU LW LV WKH %RDUGV LQWHQWLRQ WR FRnsider a review within the next 12 months.
The Company has no executive directors or employees.
All matters, including strategy, investment and dividend policies, gearing and corporate governance procedures are reserved for approval by the Board of 'LUHFWRUV 7KH %RDUG FXUUHQWO PHHWV DW OHDVW TXDUWHUO DQG UHFHLYHV IXOO LQIRUPDWLRQ RQ WKH &RPSDQ V investment performance, assets, liabilities and other relevant information in advance of Board meetings.
7KH &RPSDQ KDV DGRSWHG D &RGH RI 'LUHFWRUV GHDOLQJV LQ 6KDUHV ZKLFK LV EDVHG RQ WKH 0RGHO &RGH IRU 'LUHFWRU GHDOLQJV FRQWDLQHG LQ WKH RQGRQ 6WRFN [FKDQJHV LVting Rules.
During the year the AIC recommended that the Ongoing Charges disclosure should replace the Total Expense Ratio which has been traditionally calculated by Investment Companies.
The Board has adopted this recommendation which it considers provides more transparency and this change is reflected in the Annual Report.
Board Tenure and Re-election No member of the Board has served for longer than seven years to date.
As such no issue has arisen to be considered by the Board with respect to long tenure.
When and if any director shall have been in office or on re-election would at the end of that term of office for more than 9 years the Company will consider further on this matter as to whether there is any risk that such director might reasonably be deemed to have lost independence through such long service.
The Board does not consider it appropriate or necessary for all directors to be re-elected annually.
As such, John Whittle will retire in 2013 as a result of the retirement by rotation provisions in the Articles of Association and Giles Frost will also retire as a result of the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules and both will stand for re-election.
In accordance with its policy Ms Whittet, having joined the Board since the last AGM, will also stand for re-election.
Remuneration policy All Directors are non-executive and a Remuneration Committee has not been established.
The Board as a ZKROH FRQVLGHUV PDWWHUV UHODWLQJ WR WKH 'LUHFWRUV UHPXQHUDWLRQ 1R DGYLFH RU VHUYLFHV ZHUH SURYLGHG E any H[WHUQDO SHUVRQV LQ UHVSHFW RI LWV FRQVLGHUDWLRQ RI WKH 'LUHFWRUV UHPXQHUDWLRQ 7KH &RPSDQ V SROLF LV WKDW WKH IHHV SD DEOH WR WKH 'LUHFWRUV VKRXOG UHIOHFW WKH WLPH VSHQW E WKH 'LUHFWRUV RQ WKH &RPSDQ V DIIDLUV DQG WKH UHVSRQVLELOLWLHV ERUQH E WKH Directors and be sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Directors of a quality required to run the Company successfully.
The Chairman of the Board is paid a higher fee in recognition of additional responsibilities, as is the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The policy is to review fee rates periodically, although such a review will not necessarily result in any changes to the rates, and account is taken of fees paid to directors of comparable companies.
There are no long-term incentive schemes provided by the Company and no performance fees, or bonuses paid to Directors.
Anti-bribery and corruption policy The Board has adopted a formal Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy.
The policy applies to the Company and each of its Directors.
Further to this the Company has sought and received confirmation from each of its service providers that they operate under equivalent policies.
53 International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report continued Alternative Investment Fund Management Directive AIFMD The Company has been reviewing the impact of AIFMD legislation on its operations and is taking advice on the most appropriate course of action for the future.
The final form legislation has only just been released and therefore its effects are still being reviewed and once all information and advice has been received from the &RPSDQ V VHUYLFH SURYLGHUV DQG $GYLVRUV and processed the Company will take such actions as are appropriate to ensure compliance with this Pan European Directive.
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA FATCA became effective on 1 January 2013.
The legislation is aimed at determining the ownership of US assets in foreign accounts and improving US Tax compliance with respect to those assets.
The Board is in GLVFXVVLRQ ZLWK WKH &RPSDQ V VHUYLFH SURYLGHUV DQG $GYLVRUV WR HQVXUH WKDW the Company will comply ZLWK WKH $FWV UHTXLUHPHQWV.
Meeting Attendance Records 7KH WDEOH EHORZ OLVWV 'LUHFWRUV DWWHQGDQFH DW PHHWLQJV GXULQJ WKH HDU WR WKH GDWH RI this report.
Directors Quarterly Ad-hoc Audit Committee Management Board Board max 6 Engagement max 4 max 12 Committee max 1 K Dorrian 4 12 6 1 R Dorey 4 11 6 1 1 G Frost 4 2 max 2 - - 2 C Goodwin 4 9 5 1 J Whittle 4 11 6 0 3 C Whittet 1 max 1 2 max 2 1 max 1 - 1 Mr Frost is not a member of the Audit Committee or Management Engagement Committee.
Mr Frost does not attend Ad-hoc Board Meetings as a director where recommendations from the Investment Advisor are under consideration.
2 Ms Goodwin retired from the Board with effect from 31 December 2012.
Mr Dorrian represented Ms Goodwin in one quarterly Board meeting and one Audit Committee meeting.
3 Ms Whittet joined the Board on 10 September 2012 and was not a Board member at the time the Management Engagement Committee meeting was held.
Committees of the Board The AIC Code and UK Code require the Company to consider appointing a nomination or remuneration committee.
The Board has not deemed this necessary as the Company has no executive directors or employees and, being comprised wholly of non-executive directors: the whole Board considers these PDWWHUV 7KH %RDUGV $XGLW &RPPLWWHH LV UHVSRQVLEOH IRU WKH DSSRLQWPHQW RI DXGLWRUV DQG WKH UHYLHZ RI WKH &RPSDQ V DFFRXQWLQJ DQG ILnancial affairs.
This includes responsibility for reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in any formal announcements, including the cRPSDQ V ILQDQFLDO statements.
The Audit Committee also reviews internal audit activities of the Investment Advisor, on which it relies see detail within Internal Control and Financial Reporting below.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Dorey and is comprised of the full Board with the exception of Mr Frost.
As a consequence the Company Chairman is a member of the Audit Committee, which the Board believes is appropriate as Mr Dorrian brings significant independent expertise in investment trusts and finance to the Committee which it believes is beneficial for the Committee.
The Committee considers reports from the auditor, the Investment Manager and the Administrator.
The main responsibilities of the Audit &RPPLWWHH LQFOXGH PRQLWRULQJ WKH LQWHJULW RI WKH &RPSDQ V ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV DQG 54 International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report continued appropriateness of its accounting policies, reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control systems and making recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment, independence and remuneration of the auditor.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process, with particular regard to terms under which the auditor is appointed to perform non-audit services.
In advance of non-DXGLW ZRUN EHLQJ XQGHUWDNHQ E WKH &RPSDQ V $XGLWRUV DQ FRQIOLFWV DUH LGHQWLILHG DQG LI they cannot be suitably dealt with an alternative audit firm would be engaged.
During the year, the &RPSDQ V DXGLWRU ZDV LQYROYHG LQ QRQ-audit work in relation to the capital raising and received fees of 75,000 in respect of this 2011: 43,938.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the non-audit work that Ernst and Young provided to the Company did not interfere with the objectivity and independence of the audit.
7KH %RDUGV Management Engagement Committee was established to provide a formal mechanism for WKH UHYLHZ RI WKH SHUIRUPDQFH RI WKH &RPSDQ V DGYLVRUV LQFluding its Investment Advisor.
It carries out this review through consideration of a number of objective and subjective criteria and through a review of WKH WHUPV DQG FRQGLWLRQV RI WKH DGYLVRUV DSSRLQWPHQW ZLWK WKH DLP RI HYDOXDWLQJ SHUIRUPDQFH LGHQWLI LQJ DQ ZHDNQHVVHV DQG HQVXULQJ YDOXH IRU PRQH IRU WKH &RPSDQ V VKDUHKROGHUV 'LUHFWRUV 'Xties and Responsibilities The Directors have adopted a set of Reserved Powers, which establish the key purpose of the Board and detail its major duties.
These duties cover the following areas of responsibility: x Statutory obligations and public disclosure x Approval of investment decisions x Strategic matters and financial reporting x Board composition and accountability to shareholders x Risk assessment and management, including reporting, compliance, monitoring, governance and control x Other matters having material effects on the Company These Reserved Powers of the Board have been adopted by the Directors to demonstrate clearly the seriousness with which the Board takes its fiduciary responsibilities and as an ongoing means of measuring and monitoring the effectiveness of its actions.
7KH %RDUGV 5HVHUYHG 3RZHUV GRFXPHQW LV available upon request.
The Directors are responsible for the overall management and direction of the affairs of the Company.
The Company has no executive Directors.
Under the Investment Advisory Agreement, Amber Fund Management Limited acts as Investment Advisor to the Company to review and monitor investments and advise the Company in relation to strategic management of the investment portfolio.
Details of the, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV UHODWLRQVKip with the Company are provided in note 41 of the financial statements.
In March 2013, the Management Engagement Committee formally reviewed the performance of its advisors for the financial year ended 31 December 2012.
In particular, the service provided by the Investment Advisor was reviewed with respect to performance in origination, asset management, financial and internal control, monitoring and reporting.
Overall, the Committee confirmed its satisfaction with the services provided by the Investment Advisor.
In accordance with its normal practice it will continue to hold discussions relating to the future strategy of the Company with the Investment Advisor and regular formal and informal discussions are held on this subject.
The Directors confirm that they believe that it is in shareholders best interest to continue the appointment of Amber Fund Management Limited as the &RPSDQ V, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRU 55 International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report continued Heritage International Fund Managers Limited acts as Administrator and Company Secretary and is responsible to the Board under the terms of the Administration Agreement.
The Administrator is also responsible for ensuring compliance with the Rules and Regulations of Guernsey Law, London Stock Exchange listing requirements, money laundering regulation and observation of the Reserved Powers of the Board and in this respect the Board receives detailed quarterly reports.
The Management Engagement Committee also formally reviewed the performance of the Administrator and Company Secretary for the financial year ended 31 December 2012 and again confirms that it believes that it is in shareholders best LQWHUHVW WR FRQWLQXH WKH DSSRLQWPHQW RI HULWDJH, QWHUQDWLRQDO XQG 0DQDJHUV LPLWHG DV WKH &RPSDQ V Administrator and Company Secretary.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that it adheres to applicable legislation, rules and regulations under Guernsey Law and from the Guernsey Financial Services Commission and the London Stock Exchange.
Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, seek independent professional advice on any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company PDLQWDLQV DSSURSULDWH 'LUHFWRUV DQG 2IILFHUV OLDELOLW LQVXUDQFH LQ UHVSHFW RI OHJDO DFWLRQ DJDLQVW LWV Directors on an ongoing basis and WKH &RPSDQ KDV PDLQWDLQHG DSSURSULDWH 'LUHFWRUV LDELOLW, QVXUDQFH cover throughout the period.
7KH %RDUG PRQLWRUV WKH &RPSDQ V VKDUH SULFH DQG NAV and regularly considers ways in which future share price performance may be enhanced including by implementing marketing and investor relations activities, appropriate management of share price premium discount and the relative positioning and performance of the company to its competitors.
The Board is also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Internal Control, Risk Management and Financial Reporting 7KH 'LUHFWRUV DFNQRZOHGJH WKDW WKH DUH UHVSRQVLEOH IRU HVWDEOLVKLQJ DQG PDLQWDLQLQJ WKH &RPSDQ V system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss.
These systems are regularly reviewed and comply with the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors published by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Directors review the control framework including operations, compliance and risk management.
The key procedures which have been established to provide internal control are: x Investment advisory services are provided by Amber Fund Management Limited AFML.
The Board is responsible for setting the overall investment policy and monitors the action of the Investment Advisor and Operator at regular Board meetings.
The Board has also delegated administration and company secretarial services to Heritage International Fund Managers Limited HULWDJH KRZHYHU LW UHWDLQV DFFRXQWDELOLW IRU DOO delegated functions.
x The Board considers the process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by the Company on an on-going basis.
It ensures that effective controls are in place to mitigate these risks and that a satisfactory compliance regime exists to ensure all local and international laws and regulations are upheld.
In light of recent market volatility and economic turmoil, particular attention has been given to the effectiveness of controls to monitor liquidity risk, asset values, counterparty exposure and credit availability.
x The non-executive directors of the Company clearly define the duties and responsibilities of their agents and advisors and appointments are made by the Board after due and careful consideration.
The Board monitors the ongoing performance of such agents and advisors.
x AFML and Heritage maintain their own systems of internal control, on which they report to the Board.
The Company, in common with other investment companies, does not have an internal audit function.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but because of the internal control systems in place at AFML and Heritage, has decided to place reliance on their 56 International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report continued systems and internal control procedures.
The Board has, however, engaged Ernst & Young to perform independent reviews over selected controls and processes.
The focus of which is agreed by the Board on annual basis.
x The systems are designed to ensure effectiveness and efficient operation, internal control and compliance with laws and regulations.
In establishing the systems of internal control, regard is paid to the materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of costs being incurred and costs of control.
It follows therefore that the systems of internal control can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss.
x The Group ensures that transactions and balances are recognised and measured in accordance with prescribed accounting policies and that information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process.
The use of a standard reporting process by entities in the Group ensures that information is gathered and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements.
Relations with Shareholders 7KH %RDUG ZHOFRPHV VKDUHKROGHUV YLHZV DQG SODFHV JUHDW LPSRUWDQFH RQ Fommunication with shareholders.
It has responsibility for communication with the investor base and is directly involved in major communications and announcements.
The Board receives regular reports on the views of shareholders and the Chairman and other Directors are available to meet shareholders if required.
The Investment Advisor meets with major shareholders on a regular basis and reports to the Board on these meetings.
Any issues of concern including on corporate governance or strategy can be addressed by any shareholder by writing to the Company at its registered address see page 3.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company provides a forum for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and with the Investment Advisor of the Company.
To promote a clear understanding of the Company, its objectives and financial results, the Board aims to ensure that information relating to the Company is disclosed in a timely manner.
The Company has a comprehensive investor relations section on its website www.
com where it makes available all its publicly disclosed documents including annual reports and RNS announcements together with additional background information on its assets and corporate practices.
Investors can register to receive notification via email of RNS announcements the Company issues.
The Board encourages investors to utilise this useful online resource.
Corporate Social Responsibility approach to Environment, Social and Governance issues The Company has a high degree of engagement with environmental, social and governance ESG issues.
7KH &RPSDQ V &RUSRUDWH RYHUQDQFH DUUDQJHPHQWV are set out in some detail in the sections above.
The beloZ RXWOLQHV WKH &RPSDQ V DSSURDFK WR WKH UHPDLQLQJ 6 HOHPHQWV Governance considerations are considered in the due diligence that the Investment Advisor undertakes prior to any recommendations to the Board as part of the approvals process and forming part of the &RPSDQ V VWDQGDUG DSSURDFK WR ULVN PLWLJDWLRQ DQG JRYHUQDQFH In addition, through its Investment Advisor, the Company supports the application of environmental and social considerations when evaluating the projects it invests in.
Whilst the initial parameters of these considerations are ultimately the responsibility of the commissioning local authority, the Investment Advisor ZLOO ZRUN ZLWKLQ WKH IUDPHZRUN RI HDFK SURMHFWV JRYHUQDQFH VWUXFWXUH to ensure through its subcontracting parties that there is involvement with local communities to deliver sustainable projects and investments.
When considering proposals WR UHVSRQG WR WKH SXEOLF DXWKRULWLHV UHTXLUHPHQWV FXUUHQW environmental initiatives are considered.
Renewable energy sources are reviewed for their potential and sustainable impact with a number of projects having solar thermal panels and bio-diesel generators installed.
Each of the construction projects, where applicable are delivered in accordance to the Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM.
For example, the Liverpool Library project ZKLFK UHDFKHG FRQVWUXFWLRQ FRPSOHWLRQ LQDQXDU DFKLHYHG D UDWLQJ RI 9HU RRG XQGHU %5 $0 57 International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report continued All projects within the portfolio require ongoing capital expenditure to keep the asset to an agreed standard during the term of its concession.
These lifecycle works are monitored by the Investment AdvisorV $VVHW Management team for long-term sustainability and positive impact to energy consumption to ensure a value for money outcome for the underlying client.
Initiatives here range from improved efficient boiler installations to double glazing window replacements.
The Asset Management team actively work with the contracted facilities management companies to explore potential additional use amongst local communities in recognition of social responsibility for example: the Northampton Schools project works with Goals Soccer Centres plc to provide community use of its sporting facilities: and, Tower Hamlets Schools worked directly with the London Borough of Tower Hamlets to deliver the Osmani Youth Centre - providing a wide range of community, health and sporting initiatives in conjunction with the Osmani Trust.
In addition to the work it undertakes with the assets in the portfolio, the Investment Advisor acknowledges the importance of ESG issues at a corporate level.
Employees of Amber are required to adhere to the AdvisorV &RUSRUDWH 6RFLDO 5HVSRQVLELOLW 6WDWHPHQW ZKLFK KDV D SDUWLFXODUO IRFXV RQ UHGXFLQJ WKH environmental impact of the business in the environment.
