How we create value Our business model has operated successfully for 130 years.
Through the provision of consumer credit we make a difference to our customers everyday lives.
Application makes an initial customer: score and enquiry assessment income and loan offer to expenditure new customer assessment Home credit Responsible lending We offer home credit in the form of affordable, Our bespoke credit management systems and agent unsecured, short-term cash loans to people who need service help reduce the risk of customers falling a small amount of money.
Customers can repay their behind with their repayments.
We employ a low and loan by money transfer to a bank account or through grow approach, starting new customers with a small our optional home collection service delivered by loan.
Only when they have demonstrated their ability our network of agents.
and willingness to repay their first loan will we offer a larger amount, if they require it.
There are no extra The total amount payable by our customers represents charges for missed or late repayments on our home the loan amount and the charge for credit and other collected product and our agents are paid largely services, which is generally xed at the outset of the on the amount of money they collect rather than loan.
This is repaid in equal weekly instalments over what they lend responsible lending is therefore the term of the loan.
built into the business model.
Strong core relationships Sustainable profitability Strong, personal relationships between our Our business model is cash and capital generative customers, agents and Development Managers are at as a result of good margins coupled with the shortthe core of the business.
The weekly, face-to-face term nature of our loan book.
We aim to grow profit contact differentiates us from other financial services through expanding our customer base and giving providers and this is key to customer retention and good quality customers the opportunity to borrow growth.
Our customers like the convenience, personal larger amounts.
And while we look to expand our contact and exible repayment routine of the home footprint and introduce new products, retaining the service.
It also helps us understand our customers unique relationship between our customers, their circumstances and allows agents to assess new loan agent and the Development Manager will remain opportunities to good quality, profitable customers.
Read more: Our customers see page 18 04 International Personal Finance plc 9.
