Corporate Governance Statement Good corporate governance underpins our work at International Personal Finance and provides the foundations upon which we operate.
As we expand our footprint and develop new products and channels, we need to ensure our people operate within an effective governance framework where decisions are made at the appropriate levels: where accountability is clear: and where our actions are mindful of the interests of all our stakeholders whether they are shareholders, customers, suppliers or the communities in which we work.
As we enter new countries we will be welcoming new stakeholders to our business.
We will look to embed high standards of governance into our new operations from the outset.
In addition, we are adapting the way we operate as the UK Corporate Governance Code the Governance Code itself develops.
The latest version of the Governance Code was published in September 2012 and although this applies to reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012, we are already responding to the Governance Codes changing requirements.
Finally, I am pleased to report once again that the Company has complied with the 2010 Governance Christopher Rodrigues Code throughout 2012 and details of how we have Chairman done this and applied the principles of the Governance Code are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement which follows.
The Board is committed to ensuring that the Group continues to operate, maintain and develop effective systems of governance both in the UK and overseas.
As we move forward with the implementation of our strategy for growth, it is more important than ever Christopher Rodrigues that we promote effective governance at all levels Chairman throughout the organisation.
38 International Personal Finance plc Directors Report: Governance This constitutes the Companys Corporate Governance Statement and explains how the Company applied the main principles set out in Sections A-E of the Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and dated June 2010 in the financial year ended 31 December 2012.
The Governance Code June 2010 is available on the FRCs website at www.
Statement of compliance with the Governance Code The Board is of the opinion that the Company complied with all the provisions of the 2010 Governance Code throughout 2012.
Governance framework Board Executive Disclosure Nomination Remuneration Audit and Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Key Management Committees Group Credit Group Loss Group Information Reputational Risk Advisory Tax Treasury Committee Prevention Safety Security Management Group Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee The Board Members and attendance The Board leads and controls the Company.
There were nine meetings on scheduled days and two additional meetings.
The members and their attendance at board meetings in 2012 were as follows: Number of Number Name meetings attended 1 Christopher Rodrigues Chairman 11 10 David Broadbent Finance Director 11 11 2 Charles Gregson non-executive director 44 Tony Hales non-executive director 11 11 3 John Harnett Chief Executive officer to 31 March 2012 43 4 Edyta Kurek non-executive director 11 8 5 John Lorimer non-executive director 11 9 6 Richard Moat non-executive director 55 7 Nicholas Page non-executive director 11 10 8 Gerard Ryan Chief Executive officer from 1 April 2012 10 10 1 Mr Rodrigues missed one meeting as he was abroad and unable to dial in due to technical difficulties.
2 Mr Gregson left the Board on 9 May 2012 when his final term ended.
3 Mr Harnett missed one meeting due to another business commitment and left the Board on 31 March 2012.
4 Ms Kurek missed three meetings, two due to other business commitments and one due to a family accident.
5 Mr Lorimer missed two meetings due to other business commitments.
6 Mr Moat was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 July 2012.
7 Mr Page missed one of the two additional meetings due to another business commitment.
8 Mr Ryan was appointed to the Board on 17 January 2012 as Chief Executive officer Designate.
He became Chief Executive officer following John Harnett leaving the Board on 31 March 2012.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 39 Corporate Governance Statement continued Matters reserved to the Board The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved specically to it for decision.
s Group strategy and risk appetite: s approval of results: s approval of budgets: s approval of dividends: s approval of major transactions: s treasury policies: s approval and amendment of a prospectus and approval and issuance of bonds and notes: s Board appointments and appointments to Board Committees: s health and safety and environmental policy: s corporate governance: s annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control: s approval of directors conicts of interest: and s certain credit policies: namely policies in respect of repeat lending, provisioning, write-off and material changes to product structure and pricing.
The Board has approved a statement of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman, the Chief Executive officer and the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman is responsible for chairing board meetings and monitoring their effectiveness, and chairing the Annual General Meeting AGM and Nomination Committee.
The Chief Executive officer is responsible for developing and implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for all executive matters apart from those reserved to the Board and the Board Committees and will delegate accordingly.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive officer and Finance Director has failed to address or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
There are five principal Board Committees.
Their written terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
co. uk and from the Company Secretary.
Chairman The Chairman is also Chairman of VisitBritain and a non-executive director of Ladbrokes plc.
There were no changes to his significant commitments in 2012.
Non-executive directors The independent non-executive directors have been appointed for a xed period of three years, subject to re-election by shareholders.
The initial period may be extended for a further period.
Their letters of appointment may be inspected at the Companys registered ofce and are available from the Company Secretary.
Each of the non-executive directors, with the exception of Charles Gregson up until the end of his final term of ofce in May 2012, has been formally determined by the Board to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
Re-election of directors Under the Companys Articles of Association, each director must offer himself herself for re-election every three years.
After nine years a director, other than an executive director, must offer himself herself for re-election annually.
A director who is initially appointed by the Board is subject to election at the next AGM.
The Company has decided that in accordance with best corporate governance practice all directors, other than those who are leaving, will offer themselves for re-election again this year.
Details of the directors, including the reasons for proposing their election re-election, are contained in the Chairmans letter to shareholders which will accompany the Notice of AGM.
40 International Personal Finance plc Directors Report: Governance Terms of non-executive directors The outstanding terms of ofce of the non-executive directors are shown below: 2013 2014 2015 2016 May June July February John Tony Richard Edyta Lorimer Hales Moat Kurek Nicholas Page First Second First Second term ends term ends term ends term ends Policy on other Board appointments The Board has approved a policy on other directorships: any request for an exception to this is considered on its merits.
An executive director will be permitted to hold one non-executive directorship and to retain the fees from that appointment provided that the Board considers this will not adversely affect his her executive responsibilities.
The Companys policy is that the Chairman and the non-executive directors should have sufficient time to full their duties, including chairing a Board Committee as appropriate.
A non-executive director should not hold more than four other material non-executive directorships.
If he she holds an executive role in another FTSE 350 company, he she should not hold more than two other material non-executive directorships.
Company Secretary and independent advice All directors are able to consult with the Company Secretary.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Board Committees other than the Disclosure Committee of which the Assistant Company Secretary is Secretary.
There is a formal procedure by which any director may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense relating to the performance of his her duties.
Meetings Eight board meetings and a strategy retreat are scheduled for 2013.
A detailed agenda and a pack of board papers are made available electronically to each director a week before each meeting so he she has sufficient time to review them.
Additional meetings are convened if required and there is contact between meetings where necessary.
The Chairman has held a number of sessions with the non-executive directors without executive directors present, and the non-executive directors have met without the Chairman.
Board performance evaluation As part of its best practice approach to corporate governance the Board carried out board performance evaluation for 2012 with members of the Board completing an internal questionnaire, the results of which were collated by the Company Secretary.
The Board formally considered diversity as part of this evaluation.
Board performance evaluation then formed part of the agenda for the January 2013 board meeting and this will be followed by a further facilitated session to agree action points to improve further the efficiency of board meetings.
As short-term market volatility has eased, the Board has agreed to spend more time on strategic direction designed to build long-term competitive advantage addressing new channels and product innovation.
The board also recognises that diversity in its widest sense is desirable.
Under the 2012 Governance Code, evaluation should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
External evaluation was undertaken for 2010 by Professor Stuart Timperley, who carried out further follow-up meetings for 2011.
The Company is, therefore, in compliance with the revised Code in this respect.
Professor Timperley has no other connection with the Company.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 41 Corporate Governance Statement continued Training The Companys policy is to provide appropriate training to directors, with their training and development needs regularly reviewed and agreed with the Chairman.
Training takes into account each individuals qualications and experience and includes environmental, social and governance training as appropriate.
Training also covers generic and specic business topics and in 2012 included presentations for the Board on subjects such as legislative changes.
The Board also collectively visited Mexico and Poland to enhance understanding of local operations and, in addition to regular executive director visits, individual non-executive directors visited other markets during the year including Poland and the Czech Republic.
The Company Secretary maintains a register of training for each director which is reviewed by the Board.
A comprehensive individually tailored induction plan is prepared for new directors.
Relations with shareholders The executive directors meet with institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director also meet with shareholders from time to time.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that appropriate channels of communication are established between the executive directors and shareholders and for ensuring that the views of shareholders are made known to the entire Board.
The Board receives regular updates on investor relations.
The Board seeks to present the Companys position and prospects clearly.
The Annual Report and Financial Statements, circulars and announcements made by the Company to the London Stock Exchange are posted on the Companys website www.
Shareholders, whatever the size of their shareholding, are able to express their views via email or telephone with the Investor Relations Manager.
The Company gives at least 20 working days notice of the AGM.
Its policy is that the Chairman of each of the Board Committees will be available to answer questions from shareholders and there is an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions on each resolution proposed.
Details of proxy votes are made available to shareholders and other interested parties by means of an announcement to the London Stock Exchange and on the Companys website.
Report on the Executive Committee The composition of the Committee changed during 2012.
At the start of the year the Committee consisted of John Harnett Chairman, David Broadbent and Fred Forfar.
Gerard Ryan joined the Committee on 17 January 2012 and replaced John Harnett as Chairman at the beginning of April.
Fred Forfar left the Committee, on leaving the Company, in May 2012.
Its remit is to: s DEAL WITH MATTERS WHICH PRIMARILY RELATE TO THE DAY TO DAY RUNNING OF THE 'ROUP AND s DEAL WITH THOSE MATTERS SPECIlCALLY RESERVED TO IT FOR DECISION It met frequently in 2012 to process a wide range of matters, often of a technical nature.
Report on the Disclosure Committee The composition of the Committee changed during 2012.
At the start of the year the Committee consisted of John Harnett Chairman, David Broadbent and Rosamond Marshall Smith.
Gerard Ryan replaced John Harnett on the Committee on 1 April 2012, becoming its Chairman, and Ben Murphy replaced Rosamond Marshall Smith on the Committee on 20 July 2012.
Its remit is to: s ENSURE THAT THE #OMPANY S OBLIGATIONS PURSUANT TO THE $ISCLOSURE AND 4RANSPARENCY 2ULES AND THE, ISTING Rules of the FSA are discharged: s MAINTAIN APPROPRIATE POLICIES AND PROCEDURES TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE AND s APPROVE CERTAIN ANNOUNCEMENTS IN RELATION TO INSIDE INFORMATION It met six times in 2012, sometimes at short notice, to consider whether an announcement to the London Stock Exchange was required.
42 International Personal Finance plc Directors Report: Governance Report on the Nomination Committee Members and attendance The members and their attendance at Committee meetings in 2012 were as follows: Number of Number Name meetings attended Christopher Rodrigues Chairman 22 Tony Hales 22 1 John Harnett 11 2 Edyta Kurek 21 John Lorimer 22 Nicholas Page 22 3 Gerard Ryan 11 1 Mr Harnett left the Committee on 31 March 2012.
2 Ms Kurek missed one meeting due to a family accident.
3 Mr Ryan was appointed to the Committee on 1 April 2012.
Further details of the members, including their qualications, are set out in the section Our Board and Committees.
"Remit Its remit is to: s ASSIST THE ""OARD IN THE PROCESS OF THE SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT OF ANY NEW DIRECTOR AND TO RECOMMEND the appointment to the Board: and s KEEP UNDER REVIEW THE SIZE STRUCTURE AND COMPOSITION OF THE ""OARD AND SUCCESSION Work in 2012 The Committee has kept the size, structure and composition of the Board under review, including consideration of the Board structure and succession."
It oversaw the recruitment process which led to the appointment of Richard Moat as a non-executive director on 1 July 2012.
This included agreement of the candidate specication, the appointment of search consultants, consideration of candidates and recommendation of the favoured candidate to the Board.
The Committee supports diversity in the Board and takes this into account in its work.
It has introduced a new policy whereby search consultants are requested, where practical and appropriate, to ensure that at least 50% of the long list of candidates is female.
Report on the Remuneration Committee Members and attendance The members and their attendance at Committee meetings in 2012 were as follows: Number of Number Name meetings attended Tony Hales Chairman 99 1 John Lorimer 98 Nicholas Page 99 1 Mr Lorimer was absent from one meeting due to other business commitments.
"Remit Its remit is to: s CONSIDER THE FRAMEWORK OF EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION AND MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE ""OARD s DETERMINE THE SPECIlC REMUNERATION PACKAGES AND CONDITIONS OF SERVICE OF THE #HAIRMAN THE EXECUTIVE directors, the Senior Management Group and the Company Secretary: and s DETERMINE THE POLICY APPROVE AWARDS UNDER THE #OMPANY S EQUITY INCENTIVE SCHEMES Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 43 Corporate Governance Statement continued Full details of the work of the Remuneration Committee are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report, which also contains details of the Companys equity incentive schemes."
Report on the Audit and Risk Committee Members and attendance The members and their attendance at Committee meetings in 2012 were as follows: Number of Number Name meetings attended Nicholas Page Chairman 55 1 Tony Hales 54 John Lorimer 55 2 Richard Moat 22 1 Mr Hales missed one meeting due to other business commitments.
2 Mr Moat was appointed to the Committee on 25 September 2012.
In addition to the members, at the invitation of the Committee, meetings are attended by both the internal audit rm and the external auditor as required and by the Finance Director and the Head of Compliance and Risk.
Country Managers or heads of function are invited on an ad hoc basis to present to the Committee on an aspect of the business.
The Committee also meets from time to time with the internal audit rm and the external auditor without an executive director or member of the Companys senior management being present.
The Head of Compliance and Risk reports directly to the Chairman of the Committee, which ensures that his independence from the management and operation of the business is maintained.
The Chairman of the Committee, Nicholas Page, has a degree in Philosophy, Politics and Economics and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Chairman is regarded as having relevant and recent experience for the purposes of the Governance Code.
"Remit Its remit is to: s MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE ""OARD FOR THE ""OARD TO PUT TO SHAREHOLDERS IN GENERAL MEETING IN RELATION TO the appointment of the external auditor, and in relation to the internal audit rm, and to approve their terms of appointment: s REVIEW AND MONITOR THE OBJECTIVITY OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR AND THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE AUDIT PROCESS TAKING into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: s DEVELOP AND IMPLEMENT POLICY ON THE ENGAGEMENT OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR TO SUPPLY NON AUDIT SERVICES s MONITOR THE INTEGRITY OF THE &INANCIAL 3TATEMENTS OF THE #OMPANY AND THE FORMAL ANNOUNCEMENTS RELATING to the Companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained in them: s KEEP UNDER REVIEW THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE 'ROUP S SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL INCLUDING OPERATIONAL and compliance controls and risk management: s KEEP UNDER REVIEW THE 'ROUP RISK REGISTER AND TO CONSIDER THE MOST IMPORTANT RISKS FACING THE 'ROUP and their mitigation: and s KEEP UNDER REVIEW THE 'ROUP S WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY The terms of reference of the Committee were updated in December 2012 primarily to incorporate changes to the Governance Code September 2012."
These now include the duty, where requested by the Board, to provide advice on whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Board did not request this advice for 2012 but the Committee now has the authority to provide this in the future.
Overview of the year In 2012, the Committee focused its oversight on the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and the identication, evaluation and management of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
The Committee invited the Board as a whole to attend meetings focused on risk and provided open, honest and effective challenge to executive management to ensure, for example, that the Groups approach to risk was appropriate and an effective control environment was in place.
44 International Personal Finance plc Directors Report: Governance Further development of the Groups overall governance framework continued in 2012, and activities carried out as part of the 2012 audit plan reviewed the effectiveness of this groundwork and reviewed the effectiveness of the overall system of internal controls as well as looking at key areas of interest to the Group, including sustainability, data protection, responsible lending and regulatory compliance with findings reported back to, and discussed with, the Committee.
Members of the Committee ensured they were well-versed in key areas of the business and representatives from both the UK and overseas were invited to attend and present at a number of the Committees meetings.
Presentations covered collections and debt recovery, reputational research and the results of  PwC audit report on sustainability.
Work in 2012 Each year two of the meetings are focused solely on risk.
These are normally attended by the Chairman and the executive directors.
The remaining meetings cover audit-related matters and the other areas within the remit of the Committee.
There is a co-sourced internal audit function operating under the direction of the Head of Compliance and Risk.
Internal audit functions exist in all the businesses with the focus of their work being centred on the assessment of core controls in both the eld operations and the head ofce environments along with a number of thematic audits covering areas of special interest.
The key area of work of the in-house internal audit function related to reviewing the existence, effectiveness and operation of the core controls across the business as well as performing thematic work of special interest.
In addition, PwC performs internal audits where specialist knowledge is required.
"During 2012 the following reviews were carried out by the co-sourced internal audit function: Internal Audits s A MONEY TRANSFER AND OPTIONALITY REVIEW s A REVIEW OF THE PRACTICES TO MONITOR AND MANAGE RESPONSIBLE s A REVIEW OF THE PRACTICES TO MONITOR AND MANAGE AGENT lending practices: and operational management turnover: s A REVIEW OF 'ROUP SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES s A REVIEW OF THE PRACTICES TO MONITOR AND MANAGE REGULATORY s A DATA PROTECTION REVIEW compliance: s AN 4 GLOBAL STRATEGY REVIEW AND s CORE CONTROL REVIEWS s A TECHNICAL DATA TRANSFER REVIEW During 2012 the Committee also: s REVIEWED AN INTERNAL AUDIT ACTIVITY REPORT AT EACH SCHEDULED AUDIT FOCUSED MEETING AND CONSIDERED a number of reports from the internal audit functions on specic areas of the business: s CONSIDERED A REPORT BY $ELOITTE ON THE RESULTS OF ITS AUDIT WORK &EBRUARY AND THE lNANCIAL INFORMATION in the half-year report July : s RECEIVED A PRESENTATION FROM $ELOITTE ON THE AUDIT STRATEGY FOR THE AUDIT AND AGREED THIS $ECEMBER s AGREED THE INTERNAL AUDIT PLAN FOR n THIS PROVIDES BROAD COVERAGE OF THE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES AND INCLUDES reviews in each of the countries, together with the key corporate functions in the UK December : s REVIEWED COMPREHENSIVELY THE 'ROUP RISK REGISTER ON TWO OCCASIONS AND KEPT UNDER REVIEW THE PRINCIPAL risks and uncertainties facing the Group, which are shown on pages 32 to 35, and plans and measures to mitigate the impact of these risks: s RECEIVED PRESENTATIONS ON DIFFERENT AREAS OF THE BUSINESS FROM SENIOR MANAGERS THE TOPICS INCLUDED THE development and strengthening of the Groups overall governance framework and refresh of its corporate policies, Group corporate affairs, collections and arrears management, non-financial data assurance, and information security: and s CONSIDERED THE INTERNAL CONTROLS RISKS AND REPORTED TO THE ""OARD Independence of auditors The Committee ensures that the external auditor is, and is perceived to be, independent and has taken various steps to seek to ensure that this is, and remains, the case."
The Committee considers a statement of independence from the external auditor once each year.
The Committee has adopted a policy on the appointment of employees from the auditor to positions within the various Group finance departments.
This regulates the employment of key members of the audit engagement team as Finance Director or in certain other senior Group finance roles.
"Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 45 Corporate Governance Statement continued The Committee has adopted a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit work: s THE AWARD OF NON AUDIT WORK TO THE AUDITOR IS MANAGED IN ORDER TO ENSURE THAT THE AUDITOR IS ABLE TO CONDUCT an independent audit and is perceived to be independent by the Groups shareholders and stakeholders: s THE PERFORMANCE OF NON AUDIT WORK BY THE AUDITOR IS MINIMISED REQUIRES THE PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE EAD of Compliance and Risk and such work is awarded only when, by virtue of knowledge, skills or experience, the auditor is clearly to be preferred over alternative suppliers: s THE 'ROUP MAINTAINS AN ACTIVE RELATIONSHIP WITH AT LEAST TWO OTHER PROFESSIONAL ACCOUNTING lRMS s NO INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY REMUNERATION RECRUITMENT VALUATION OR GENERAL CONSULTANCY WORK MAY BE awarded to the auditor without the prior approval of the Chairman of the Committee, such approval to be given only in exceptional circumstances: s THE #HAIRMAN OF THE #OMMITTEE MUST APPROVE IN ADVANCE ANY SINGLE AWARD OF NON AUDIT WORK WITH an aggregate cost of 30,000 or more: s THE AUDITOR MAY NOT PERFORM INTERNAL AUDIT WORK s THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR WILL NORMALLY BE USED FOR AUDIT RELATED SERVICES SPECIlED AS SUCH IN THE !0"" %THICAL Standards for Auditors: and s THE #OMMITTEE KEEPS UNDER REVIEW THE NON AUDIT WORK CARRIED OUT BY THE AUDITOR &EES PAID TO THE EXTERNAL auditor in 2012 are set out in note 4 of the notes to the Financial Statements."
The non-audit services carried out by Deloitte in 2012 were as follows: Work carried out Fee 000 Taxation compliance services 12 Other assurance services 57 Total 69 Appointment of auditors It is the Companys policy at least once every ten years, or more often at the discretion of the Committee, to undertake a formal tendering exercise of the audit contract.
The purpose of the tender is to benchmark the quality and effectiveness of the services provided by the incumbent auditor against those offered by other rms, with the aim of obtaining the best quality and most effective external audit.
The last tender concluded in mid-March 2011 and Deloitte was appointed auditor with effect from 11 May 2011.
There were no contractual obligations that restricted the Committees choice of auditor.
At its February 2013 meeting, the Committee recommended the reappointment of Deloitte to the Board.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte as auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Internal control and risk management Risk management process Whilst the Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control, it has delegated to the Audit Committee the review of the controls and their effectiveness.
Any system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has approved a Risk Appetite Statement.
This sets out Group risks, the Groups risk appetite and the principal actions undertaken to mitigate the impact of each risk.
More recently the Board has approved an updated statement of principal risks and uncertainties.
The Board approves a detailed budget each year usually in December for the year ahead.
It also approves outline projections for the subsequent four years.
Actual performance against budget is monitored in detail regularly and reported monthly for review by the directors.
The Board requires its subsidiaries to operate in accordance with corporate policies.
The Risk Advisory Group, which consists of the Chairman, Chief Executive officer, Finance Director, Group Legal Director and Head of Compliance and Risk, meets four times a year.
It reports to the Audit and Risk Committee and considers the risk assessments and risk registers produced in each country and updates the Group risk register and principal risks and uncertainties.
It considers areas of specic risk and particular issues.
The Audit and Risk Committee considers the Group risk register and the nature and extent of the risks facing the Group.
It reviews the principal risks and uncertainties and the framework to manage and mitigate such risks and reports to the Board on a regular basis.
46 International Personal Finance plc Directors Report: Governance The Audit and Risk Committee keeps under review the adequacy of internal financial controls in conjunction with the Head of Compliance and Risk and the internal audit rm and reports to the Board regularly.
The operation of internal financial controls is further monitored, including a procedure by which operating companies certify compliance quarterly.
The Consolidated Financial Statements for the Group are prepared by aggregating submissions from each statutory entity.
Prior to submission to the Group reporting team, the individual country submissions are reviewed and approved by the Finance Director of the relevant country.
Once the submissions have been aggregated and consolidation adjustments made to remove intercompany transactions, the consolidated result is reviewed by the Finance Director.
The results are compared to the budget and prior year gures and any significant variances are claried.
Checklists are completed by each statutory entity and by the Group reporting team to confirm that all required controls, such as key reconciliations, have been performed and reviewed.
The Financial Statements, which are agreed directly to the consolidation of the Group results, are prepared by the Group reporting team and reviewed by the Finance Director.
The supporting notes to the Financial Statements, which cannot all be agreed directly to the consolidation, are prepared by aggregating submission templates from each market and combining this with central information where applicable.
The Financial Statements and all supporting notes are reviewed and approved by the Group Head of Finance and the Finance Director: these are signed by the Chief Executive officer and the Finance Director.
Review of effectiveness In accordance with the Guidance on Audit Committees issued by the FRC and last updated in September 2012, the Committee on behalf of the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups framework of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems during 2012.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group was in place throughout 2012 and up to 6 March 2013.
The Board also, where appropriate, ensures that necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy significant failings or weaknesses identied from the review of the effectiveness of internal control.
The Committee has also undertaken a review of its own effectiveness and concluded that it is effective.
Report on environmental, social and governance ESG matters During the year, the Company and its subsidiaries made donations of 94,000 for UK charitable purposes.
Community investment across the Group totalled 891,000 in cash, employee time, management costs and in-kind contributions to charitable and community investment organisations.
A further 74,000 was raised through leverage including fundraising and matched funding.
The Groups community data is reported in line with the London Benchmarking Group methodology and is independently assured by the Corporate Citizenship Company.
No political donations were made.
The Board takes regular account of the signicance of ESG matters to the Group and has identied and assessed the signicance of ESG risks to the Companys short and long-term value as part of the risk management process.
It recognises that a proactive programme of reputation management through a range of progressive, responsible business initiatives adds to the sustainable long-term value of the Company.
Responsibility for this area rests with the Chief Executive officer, who chairs the Reputational Management Committee which sets guidance, provides direction and oversees policies and progress to ensure that the Company is a leader in its approach to ESG matters.
Key ESG issues for the business that impact upon its stakeholders are: public perception and ensuring work with communities is relevant: social and financial exclusion: health and safety: business ethics in emerging markets: and attracting and retaining skilled and well-motivated labour.
Adequate information is received by the Board to make an assessment of key ESG issues.
Corporate affairs activity, health and safety and people management issues were all discussed at board meetings in 2012.
The Board formally reviews a sustainability report at least once a year.
Details of training for directors are set out in the training section of this Corporate Governance Statement.
The Board is committed to diversity both at Board level and throughout the organisation.
This commitment is to diversity in its broadest sense rather than simply in the context of gender.
Given that the corporate ofce is in the UK but the businesses are across Central Europe and Mexico, diversity of nationality is regarded as an important factor.
The Board remains committed to ensuring it has a diverse composition.
However, it is not considered appropriate to set formal targets in respect of gender.
The Company collects data in respect of the number of women at different levels and thus will be able to keep the position under review.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 47 Corporate Governance Statement continued There is a range of appropriate corporate standards, policies and governance structures covering all operations.
In terms of employment, the Group is an equal opportunity employer and it is the Groups policy that no job applicant, member of staff or agent will receive less favourable treatment because of race, colour, nationality, ethnic or other national origin, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, age, disability or religion.
The purpose of this policy is to ensure that individuals are selected, promoted and treated on the basis of their relevant merits and abilities.
As at 31 December 2012 the percentage of women employees at different levels within the Group was as follows: Level % of women Group Board 13 Level immediately below the Group Board 8 Senior management level 27 Middle management level 30 Junior management level 37 Group as a whole 50 Note: Agents in Hungary who are employees, unlike the position in the other markets have been excluded.
The Group attaches great importance to the health and safety of its employees, agents and other people who may be affected by its activities.
The Board has approved a policy and a framework for health and safety and introduced the international health and safety standard OHSAS 18001 across all businesses with the aim of full accreditation by the end of 2013.
It has established a Group Safety Committee and a Group Loss Prevention Committee.
These Committees report annually to the Board by means of a written report.
Each subsidiary board is responsible for the issue and implementation of its own health and safety policy as it affects the subsidiary companys day-to-day responsibility for health and safety.
Health and safety is considered regularly at board meetings within the Group.
Community investment and environmental data are veried externally.
The environmental management system is also subject to an annual independent internal audit against the requirements of ISO 14001.
The Remuneration Committee is able to consider performance on ESG issues when setting the remuneration of executive directors and, where relevant, ESG matters are incorporated into the performance management systems and remuneration incentives of local business management.
When setting incentives, the Remuneration Committee takes account of all implications, including the need to avoid inadvertently motivating inappropriate behaviour, and the Head of Compliance and Risk reviews incentives from a risk perspective.
In 2012, the executive directors were given specic objectives relating to ESG issues for the purposes of the annual bonus scheme.
Details of the bonus scheme are set out in the bonus section of the statement of the Companys policy on directors remuneration in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Full information on specic ESG matters, and how these are managed, can be found in the Sustainability section of the Companys website www.
Share capital information On 31 December 2012, there were 249,425,087 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in issue.
No shares were issued during the year.
7,792,801 ordinary shares, with a nominal value of 779,280 representing 3.03% of the Companys called up share capital, were bought back and cancelled during 2012.
The total consideration paid under the buyback programme, excluding costs, was 24,826,100.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in certicated or uncerticated form.
The full rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which can be viewed on the Companys website or obtained by writing to the Company Secretary or from Companies House in the UK.
A summary of those rights and obligations can be found below.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Annual Report and Financial Statements, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
48 International Personal Finance plc Directors Report: Governance The directors are responsible for the management of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the relevant statutes and the Companys Articles of Association.
For example, the Articles of Association contain specic provisions and restrictions regarding the Companys powers to borrow money: provisions relating to the appointment of directors, subject to subsequent shareholder approval: delegation of powers to a director or committees: and, subject to certain exceptions, a director shall not vote on or be counted in a quorum in relation to any resolution of the Board in respect of any contract in which he she has an interest which he she knows is material.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
There are no restrictions on voting rights except as set out in the Articles of Association in circumstances where the shareholder has not complied with a statutory notice or paid up what is due on the shares.
There are no restrictions on the transfer including requirements for prior approval of any transfers or limitations on the holding of ordinary shares subject to the fact that the Board may refuse to register the transfer of: s A PARTLY PAID SHARE s AN UNCERTIlCATED SHARE IN THE CIRCUMSTANCES SET OUT IN THE 5NCERTIlCATED 3ECURITIES 2EGULATIONS AND s A CERTIlCATED SHARE IF A DULY EXECUTED TRANSFER IS NOT PROVIDED TOGETHER WITH ANY NECESSARY DOCUMENT OF authority.
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares.
Shares to be acquired through the Companys share plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
The Company operates an employee trust with an independent trustee, Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, to hold shares pending employees becoming entitled to them under the Companys share incentive plans.
On 31 December 2012, the trustee held 3,244,706 shares in the Company.
The trust waives its dividend entitlement and abstains from voting the shares at general meetings.
Agreements on change of control The Company does not have any agreements with any director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of ofce or employment resulting from a takeover.
The Company is not party to any significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid, apart from: s ITS BANK FACILITY AGREEMENTS WHICH PROVIDE FOR A NEGOTIATION PERIOD FOLLOWING A CHANGE OF CONTROL OF THE #OMPANY and the ability of a lender to cancel its commitment and for outstanding amounts to become due and payable: s ITS %UROEDIUM 4ERM.
OTE PROGRAMME WHICH ENTITLES ANY HOLDER OF A. OTE TO REQUIRE THE #OMPANY TO redeem such holders Notes if there is a change of control of the Company and, following such change of control, the Notes are downgraded: s ITS 0OLISHEDIUM 4ERM.
OTE PROGRAMME WHICH ENTITLES ANY HOLDER OF A. OTE TO REQUIRE THE ISSUER TO REDEEM such holders Notes if there is a change of control of the Company and following such change of control the Euro Medium Term Notes are then downgraded or if no such Notes are then outstanding, in certain other circumstances : and s PROVISIONS IN THE #OMPANY S SHARE INCENTIVE PLANS MAY CAUSE AWARDS GRANTED TO DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES to vest on a takeover.
OTE PROGRAMME WAS ESTABLISHED IN 4HE FOLLOWING.
OTES LISTED ON THE, ONDON 3TOCK %XCHANGE HAVE BEEN ISSUED UNDER THE PROGRAMME %URO MILLION.
OTES issued in August 2010 with a five-year term and an 11.5% coupon: Romanian lei 36.5 million issued in February 2011 with a three-year term and a 12.0% coupon: Czech crown 100 million issued in July 2012 with a four-year term and a 9.0% coupon: Czech crown 280 million issued in July 2012 with a three-year term and an 8.5% coupon: and, subsequent to the 2012 year end, Hungarian forint 4 billion issued in January 2013 with a five-year term and an 11.0% coupon.
OTE PROGRAMME A SUBSIDIARY COMPANY 0& NVESTMENTS 0OLSKA 3P Z O O ISSUED MILLION 0OLISH ZLOTY.
OTES WHICH ARE LISTED ON THE 7ARSAW 3TOCK %XCHANGE they mature on 30 June 2015 and the coupon is a oating rate of six-month WIBOR plus a margin of 750 basis points.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 49 Corporate Governance Statement continued Responsibilities and disclosure Annual Report and Financial Statements The Company presents its own Annual Report and its Consolidated Annual Report as a single Annual Report.
Directors responsibilities in relation to the Financial Statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company Financial Statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these Financial Statements, IAS 1 requires that directors: s PROPERLY SELECT AND APPLY ACCOUNTING POLICIES s PRESENT INFORMATION INCLUDING ACCOUNTING POLICIES IN A MANNER THAT PROVIDES RELEVANT RELIABLE comparable and understandable information: s PROVIDE ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES WHEN COMPLIANCE WITH THE SPECIlC REQUIREMENTS IN &23S ARE INSUFlCIENT to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and s MAKE AN ASSESSMENT OF THE #OMPANY S ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement This statement is given pursuant to Rule 4 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
It is given by each of the directors: namely, Christopher Rodrigues, Chairman: Gerard Ryan, Chief Executive Officer: David Broadbent, Finance Director: Tony Hales, non-executive director: Edyta Kurek, non-executive director: John Lorimer, non-executive director: Richard Moat, non-executive director and Nicholas Page, non-executive director.
To the best of each directors knowledge: a the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the IFRSs, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and b the management report contained in this report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Disclosure of information to the auditor In the case of each person who is a director at the date of this report, it is confirmed that, so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and he she has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
