A growth business Our business generates a healthy return on equity and we maintain a well-funded balance sheet to support our long-term growth.
Our investment proposition The business model is resilient, we are profitable and our people are focused on our strategy to accelerate growth.
Resilient business model Effective risk management systems The resilience of our business Effective risk management model comes from close, weekly underpins our business and contact with our customers, the is embedded in our approach effectiveness of our risk and credit to short and long-term decision systems and the short-term nature taking.
This is supported by wellof our loan book.
We are proving developed systems of control to this resilience and continue to ensure compliance with our risk generate good margins and appetite and regulatory returns as we manage the requirements.
business successfully through the challenging economic times that are still affecting Europe.
27.0% impairment as a 20.1% return on equity percentage of revenue 14.6% profit margin 2.1% credit exceptions 06 International Personal Finance plc Directors Report: Business Review Experienced and motivated people Strong financial prole Good profitable growth prospects The engagement, leadership Our home credit business model We are improving and expanding skills and expertise of our people is cash and capital generative.
our existing operations to deliver are key to delivering high levels We are well capitalised with faster growth and profitability.
of customer service and shareholders equity representing We also plan to introduce new delivering our business plans.
57.8% of receivables, the products and expand into new Our development programmes equivalent of a banks Tier 1 ratio.
markets adjacent to our existing and initiatives have contributed We have a diversied debt funding operations in Europe where to improved engagement and structure, with a mix of bond and we believe there is significant are helping to create the next bank facilities and a balanced demand for small sum, short-term generation of leaders.
evidenced by the promotion cover against all our core funding of two long-term employees to covenants.
57.8% equity to 80.3% employee retention receivables ratio 4.0% customer growth 61.1% agent retention 0.8x gearing 8.8% revenue growth Read more: Financial review - see page 28 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 07
