governance corporate governance report continued The Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Ben Gordon, Bob Ivell and Michael Shallow, who acts as its chairman.
The board is satisfied that Michael Shallow, who is a chartered accountant and was formerly finance director of Greene King plc, has recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the financial reporting process, the integrity of the groups interim and annual financial statements prior to their submission to the board and the statutory audit of the annual and consolidated accounts.
It is also responsible for reviewing the groups internal financial control and risk management systems, advising the board on the appointment of external auditors, overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, approving auditor remuneration, reviewing the groups whistle blowing procedures, reviewing accounting policies, compliance and monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the groups internal audit function.
The committee met three times during the year, including immediately prior to the publication of the companys interim and preliminary results statements.
On each occasion the finance director, the head of internal audit and risk and the companys external auditors attended by invitation.
Other senior executives of the company are invited to attend by the committee as appropriate.
significant areas of review during the year included the continued embedding of Britvics real-time risk management solution across the group.
The committee also received comprehensive reports from the head of internal audit and risk on the outputs and progress of the internal audit plan.
The Audit Committee regularly monitors the relationship with the auditors and assesses their performance, cost-effectiveness, objectivity and independence.
It agrees the scope of the audit work and discusses the results of the full year audit and interim review each year.
At each Audit Committee meeting the external auditors meet with the committee without management being present.
The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship is maintained between the group and its auditors.
The group has a policy of controlling the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors in order to maintain their independence and ensure that their objectivity and independence are safeguarded.
This control is exercised by ensuring non-audit projects, where fees are expected to exceed 50,000, are subject to the prior approval of the chairman of the Audit Committee and the finance director.
If non-audit project fees are expected to exceed 150,000 the prior approval of the Audit Committee is required.
The committee has scrutinised the internal procedures of the companys auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, and satisfied itself that the independence and objectivity of the auditors are not affected by the non-audit work undertaken.
Attendance at meetings The attendance of directors at board and committee meetings during the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2012 was as follows: Nomination Remuneration Audit Board Committee Committee Committee Gerald Corbett 10 1 4 - Paul Moody 10 1 - - Joanne Averiss 9 - - - John Gibney 10--- Bob Ivell 10 1 5 3 Michael Shallow 10153 Ben Gordon 9 1 5 3 Total number of meetings 10 1 5 3 32 Britvic plc Annual Report 2012
