Corporate governance Introduction Investec is While the Investec board provides leadership based on an ethical foundation, and oversees the overall process and structure of corporate governance, each business area and every committed employee of the group is responsible for acting in accordance with sound corporate to promoting governance practices.
sustainable In formulating our governance framework, we apply recognised corporate governance stakeholder practices pragmatically so as to: confidence in Build and sustain an ethical corporate culture in the company our conduct as Identify and mitigate significant risks, including reputational risk a business and Exercise effective review and monitoring of our activities as a responsible Promote informed and sound decision making corporate citizen.
Enable effectiveness, efficiency, responsibility and accountability Enhance the corporate client and other stakeholders perception of us Facilitate legal and regulatory compliance Secure trust and confidence of all stakeholders Protect our brand and reputation Ensure sustainable business practices, including social and environmental activities Disclose the necessary group information to enable all stakeholders to make a meaningful analysis of our financial position and actions Respond appropriately to changes in market conditions and the business environment Remain at the forefront of international corporate governance practices.
Investecs values and philosophies are the framework against which we measure behaviour and practices so as to assess the characteristics of good governance.
Our values require that directors and employees behave with integrity, displaying consistent and uncompromising moral strength and conduct in order to promote and maintain trust.
Sound corporate governance is implicit in our values, culture, processes, functions and organisational structure.
Structures are designed to ensure that our values remain embedded in all businesses and processes.
We continually refine these structures and a written statement of values serves as our code of ethics.
We operate under a dual listed companies DLC structure, and consider the corporate governance principles and regulations of both the UK and South Africa before adopting the appropriate rule for the group.
All international business units operate in accordance with the above determined corporate governance recommendations, in addition to those of their jurisdiction, but with clear adherence at all times to group values and culture.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 189 Corporate governance continued Governance framework Investecs governance framework is depicted as follows: Investec plc and Investec Limited board of directors DLC nominations DLC remuneration Board risk and DLC social and Group investment and directors affairs Audit committees committee capital committee ethics committee committee committee Audit DLC capital Group legal Executive risk sub-committees committee risk forums review forum Global Deal forum forums new product committees forum Audit and compliance implementation forums Global credit committee Internal Global market risk forum audit Group asset and liability committees Group operational risk committees Global IT steering committee Compliance Global compliance forum Stakeholders employees, shareholders, government, regulatory bodies, clients, suppliers, communities Board statement The board, management and employees of Investec are committed to complying with the disclosure and transparency rules and listing rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA, the JSE Limited JSE listings requirements, regulatory requirements in the countries in which we operate, the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code and the majority of the King Code of Governance Principles for South Africa 2009 King III, whereby all stakeholders are assured that we are being managed ethically and in compliance with the latest legislation, regulations and best practices.
Governance requirements UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 The board is of the opinion that, based on the practices disclosed throughout this report, which were in operation during the year under review, Investec has complied with the relevant provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, save that Fani Titi, the joint chairman, was not considered independent upon appointment in view of his previous connection with Tiso Group Limited.
Tiso had a material relationship with Investec Limited as a result of the empowerment transaction concluded in 2003 as a result of South Africas Financial Sector Charter.
Fani resigned as board member and chairman of Tiso during March 2008 however, the UK Corporate Governance Code requires a five year break in the relationship.
King III King III distinguishes between statutory provisions, voluntary principles and recommended practices.
The King III Report provides best practice recommendations, whereas the King III Code provides the principles that all entities should apply.
The majority of the principles of King III are being applied and is evidenced in the various sections of this report.
190 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information The following principle of King III is currently not being applied by Investec: Sustainability reporting and disclosure should be independently assured Sustainability reporting and related disclosure was not independently assured by an external expert.
The audit committees have overseen the integrated report, including sustainability disclosures, which have been verified by the Internal Audit division We recognise the importance of sustainability reporting and verification of our efforts in this area.
During the 2012 financial year, we designed and implemented a reporting system to align our sustainability process across the group and accordingly we will be able to commission external verification for the 2013 financial year.
Financial reporting and going concern The directors are required to confirm that they are satisfied that the group, as well as Investec plc and Investec Limited individually, have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
The assumptions underlying the going concern statement are discussed at the time of the approval of the annual financial statements by the board and these include: Budgeting and forecasts Profitability Capital Liquidity.
In addition, the directors are responsible for monitoring and reviewing the preparation, integrity and reliability of the Investec plc and Investec Limited combined financial statements, accounting policies and the information contained in the annual report.
In undertaking this responsibility, the directors are supported by an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks Investec faces in preparing the financial and other information contained in this annual report.
This process was in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
The process is implemented by management and independently monitored for effectiveness by the audit, risk and other sub-committees of the board, which are referred to on pages 197 to 203.
The significant risks we continue to face include risks flowing from the instability in the global financial market and the global economic environment that could affect Investecs businesses, earnings and financial condition.
Our financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, taking into consideration: The groups strategy and prevailing market conditions and business environment Nature and complexity of our business Risks we assume, and their management and mitigation Key business and control processes in operation Credit rating and access to capital Needs of all our stakeholders Operational soundness Accounting policies adopted Corporate governance practices Desire to provide relevant and clear disclosures Operation of board committee support structures.
The board is of the opinion, based on its knowledge of the group, key processes in operation and specific enquiries, that there are adequate resources to support the group as a going concern for the foreseeable future.
Further information on our liquidity and capital position is provided on pages 153 to 165 and pages 170 to 182.
Furthermore, the board is of the opinion that the groups risk management processes and the systems of internal control are effective.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 191 Corporate governance continued Board of directors In terms of the DLC arrangements, the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited are identical and the group is managed as a unified economic enterprise.
The board seeks to exercise leadership, integrity and judgement in pursuit of strategic goals and objectives, to achieve long-term sustainability, growth and prosperity.
The board is accountable for the performance and affairs of Investec.
It provides leadership for the group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which allows risks to be assessed and managed.
The board has adopted a board charter, which provides a framework of how the boards operate as well as the type of decisions to be taken by the board and which should be delegated to management.
The Investec board: Approves the groups strategy Ensures that the group complies with the applicable laws and considers adherence to non-binding rules and standards Is responsible for the governance of risk, including that of information technology IT Acts as focal point for, and custodian of, corporate governance Provides effective leadership on an ethical foundation Ensures the group is, and is seen to be, a responsible corporate citizen.
The board meets its objectives by reviewing and guiding corporate strategy, setting the groups values and standards, promoting high standards of corporate governance, approving key policies and objectives, ensuring that obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met, understanding the key risks we face, determining our risk tolerance and approving and reviewing the processes in operation to mitigate risk from materialising, including the approval of the terms of reference of key supporting board committees.
Certain matters are specifically reserved for the board.
To achieve its objectives, the board may delegate certain of its duties and functions to various board committees, group forums or the CEO, without abdicating its own responsibilities: The board has formally defined and documented, by way of terms of reference, the authority it has delegated to the various board committees and group forums In fulfilling its responsibilities, the board is supported by management in implementing the plans and strategies approved by the board.
Furthermore, directly or through its sub-committees, the Investec board: Assesses the quantitative and qualitative aspects of Investecs performance through a comprehensive system of financial and nonfinancial monitoring involving an annual budget process, detailed monthly reporting, regular review of forecasts and regular management strategic and operational updates Approves annual budgets, capital plans, projections and business plans Monitors our compliance with relevant laws, regulations and codes of business practice Ensures there are processes in place enabling complete, timely, relevant, accurate and accessible risk disclosure to stakeholders and monitors our communication with all stakeholders and disclosures made to ensure transparent and effective communication Identifies and monitors key risk areas and key performance indicators Reviews processes and procedures to ensure the effectiveness of our internal systems of control Ensures we adopt sustainable business practices, including our social and environmental activities Assisted by the audit committee, ensures appropriate IT governance processes are in place, the implementation of which management is responsible for, and ensuring that the process is aligned to the performance and sustainability objectives of the board Monitors and evaluates significant IT investments and expenditure Ensures information assets are managed effectively Ensures the appropriate risk governance processes, including IT, are in place including continual risk monitoring by management, determines the levels of risk tolerance and that risk assessments are performed on a continual basis Ensures the integrity of the companys integrated report, which includes sustainability reporting Ensures the induction of, and ongoing training and development of, directors Evaluates the performance of senior management and considers succession planning.
192 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Composition, structure and process Membership At the end of the year under review, the Investec board, excluding the joint chairmen, comprised four executive directors and 10 non-executive directors.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 208 to 210.
The names of the directors at the date of this report, the year of their appointment and their independence status are set out in the table below.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the entire board will offer itself for re-election at the 2012 annual general meeting.
Board changes during the past year, which all became effective on 17 November 2011: Hugh Herman retired as non-executive chairman Sir David Prosser and Fani Titi were appointed joint chairmen George Alford was appointed as senior independent director.
Date of appointment Investec plc Investec Limited Independent Executive directors S Koseff chief executive officer 26 June 2002 6 October 1986 No B Kantor managing director 26 June 2002 8 June 1987 No GR Burger group risk and finance director 3 July 2002 3 July 2002 No HJ du Toit 15 December 2010 15 December 2010 No Non-executive directors Sir David Prosser joint chairman 23 March 2006 23 March 2006 Yes # F Titi joint chairman 30 January 2004 30 January 2004 No SE Abrahams 26 June 2002 21 October 1996 Yes GFO Alford senior independent director 26 June 2002 26 June 2002 Yes CA Carolus 18 March 2005 18 March 2005 Yes PKO Crosthwaite 18 June 2010 18 June 2010 Yes OC Dickson 31 March 2011 31 March 2011 Yes B Fried 1 April 2010 1 April 2010 No H Fukuda OBE 21 July 2003 21 July 2003 Yes IR Kantor 26 June 2002 30 July 1980 No MP Malungani 26 June 2002 26 June 2002 No PRS Thomas 26 June 2002 29 June 1981 Yes Sir David Prosser and Fani Titi were appointed as joint chairmen with effect from 17 November 2011.
Sir David Prosser was the senior independent director up to 16 November 2011 and George Alford was appointed as senior independent director on 17 November 2011.
# Fani Titi is independent for Investec Limited but not for Investec plc.
Independence As at 31 March 2012, the board is compliant with Principle B.
1.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code at least half the board, excluding the chairmen, comprises independent non-executive directors As at 31 March 2012, the board is compliant with Chapter 2, Principle 2.18 of King III in that the majority of non-executive directors are independent.
A summary of the factors the board uses to determine the independence of non-executive directors is detailed below.
Chairmen Hugh Herman retired as non-executive chairman on 17 November 2011.
Hugh was not considered to be independent as at the time of his appointment and up to 2005, his duties included promoting the group and introducing clients, but excluded day-to-day executive decisions.
As from 17 November 2011, the board appointed Sir David Prosser and Fani Titi as joint chairmen of the group.
Fani is not regarded as independent in terms of the UK Corporate Governance Code as explained overleaf.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 193 Corporate governance continued Relationships and associations Fani Titi resigned as a board member and chairman of Tiso Group Limited Tiso during March 2008.
Tiso had a material relationship with Investec Limited as a result of the empowerment transaction concluded in 2003 in light of South Africas Financial Sector Charter.
In line with the independence requirements of King III, the board of Investec Limited concluded that for purposes of Fanis appointment to Investec Limited and subsidiaries, he is now considered to be independent as it has been three years since Fanis relationship with Tiso has ended.
In line with the independence requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which requires a five year break in the relationship with Tiso, the board of Investec plc concluded that for purposes of Fanis appointment to Investec plc and subsidiaries, he could not yet be considered to be independent Peter Malungani is the chairman of Peu Group Pty Limited Peu.
Peu had a material relationship with Investec Limited as a result of the empowerment transaction concluded in 2003 in light of South Africas Financial Sector Charter.
Accordingly, the board concluded that Peter could not be considered independent under the UK Corporate Governance Code and King III Ian Kantor is the brother of Bernard Kantor, Investecs managing director.
Ian was also previously CEO of Investec.
Accordingly, the board concluded that Ian could not be considered independent under the UK Corporate Governance Code and King III Bradley Fried resigned as CEO of Investec Bank plc and as an employee of Investec during March 2010.
The board soon thereafter appointed Bradley as a non-executive director due to his specific business skills, knowledge and experience in the group which is valuable to the organisation.
Accordingly, the board concluded that Bradley could not be considered independent under the UK Corporate Governance Code and King III.
Despite the board concluding that Fani, Peter, Ian and Bradley cannot be considered independent for the reasons explained above, the board is of the view that their skills, knowledge, experience and attributes are nonetheless valuable to the organisation and believe they do and will use their independent judgement when making decisions that affect the organisation and stakeholders.
Attendance at risk management meetings Sam Abrahams and Peter Thomas regularly attend, by invitation, certain credit committees of the group.
The board considers their attendance at these committees to be desirable in terms of developing an understanding of the day-to-day issues facing the business.
This further allows Sam to discharge his responsibilities more effectively as chairman of the Investec plc and Investec Limited audit committees.
The board concluded that Sam and Peter retain independence of character and judgement.
Tenure The board does not believe that any current non-executive director has served on the board for a period which materially interferes with their ability to act in our best interests.
Accordingly, the board has concluded that George Alford, Peter Thomas and Sam Abrahams, despite having been directors of Investec for nine years or more, retain both financial independence and independence of character and judgement.
At the time of the 2012 annual general meeting Haruko Fukuda OBE would have served for nine years and the board has concluded that Haruko retains independence of character and judgement.
Notwithstanding the guidelines set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and King lll, the board is of the view that the non-executive directors are independent of management and promote the interests of stakeholders.
The balance of executive and non-executive directors is such that there is a clear division of responsibility to ensure a balance of power, such that no one individual or group can dominate board processes or have unfettered powers of decision making.
The board believes that it functions effectively and evaluates its performance annually.
Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of directors The board considers that the skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of the directors as a whole are appropriate for their responsibilities and our activities.
The directors bring a range of skills to the board including: International business and operational experience Understanding of the economics of the sectors in which we operate Knowledge of the regulatory environments in which we operate Financial, accounting, legal and banking experience and knowledge.
The skills and experience profile of the board and its committees are regularly reviewed by the DLC nominations and directors affairs committee, to ensure an appropriate and relevant composition from a governance, succession and effectiveness perspective.
194 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Board and directors performance evaluation The board, its committees and individual directors performance is formally evaluated annually Directors based on recognised codes of corporate governance and covers areas of the boards ongoing training processes and responsibilities, according to leading practice.
and development The performance evaluation process takes place both informally, through personal observations and discussions, and or in the form of evaluation questionnaires.
The results are is a standing considered and discussed by the board.
board agenda The chairmen hold regular one-on-one meetings with each director to discuss the results of item, including the formal and informal evaluations and, in particular, to seek comments on strengths and updates on developmental areas of the members, the chairmen and the board as a whole.
Individual training and development needs are discussed with each board member and any requests for various training training are communicated to the company secretaries for implementation.
and development Performance evaluation of the board and directors as well as training and development are initiatives.
matters that are standing agenda items of the nominations and directors affairs committee.
Terms of appointment On appointment, non-executive directors are provided with a letter of appointment.
The letter sets out, among other things, duties, responsibilities and expected time commitments, details of our policy on obtaining independent advice and, where appropriate, details of the board committees of which the non-executive director is a member.
We have an insurance policy that insures directors against liabilities they may incur in carrying out their duties.
Ongoing training and development On appointment, directors are provided with an induction pack and participate in an induction programme tailored to their needs, including meeting with business unit and central services heads to ensure they become familiar with business operations, senior management, our business environment and internal controls, policies, processes and systems for managing risk.
Directors ongoing training and development is a standing board agenda item, including updates on various training and development initiatives.
Board members receive regular formal presentations on regulatory and governance matters as well as on the business and support functions.
Regular interactive workshops are arranged between directors and the heads of risk management, control functions and business units.
Company secretaries liaise with directors to source relevant seminars and conferences which directors could attend, funded by Investec.
Following the boards and directors performance evaluation process, any training needs are communicated to the company secretaries who ensure these needs are addressed.
During the period under review there were a number of director workshops arranged outside board meetings.
Independent advice Through the senior independent director or the company secretaries, individual directors are entitled to seek professional independent advice on matters related to the exercise of their duties and responsibilities at the expense of Investec.
No such advice was sought during the 2012 financial year.
Remuneration Details of the directors remuneration and remuneration process are set out in the remuneration report on pages 235 to 262.
Joint chairmen and chief executive officer The roles of the joint chairmen and chief executive officer are distinct and separate with a clear, documented division of responsibilities that has been approved by the board.
The joint chairmen lead the board and are responsible for ensuring that the board receives accurate, timely and clear information to ensure that directors can perform their duties effectively.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 195 Corporate governance continued Details of the joint chairmens external directorships are set out on page 208.
The board does not consider that the joint chairmens external commitments interfere with their performance and responsibilities to Investec.
The board is satisfied that the joint chairmen make sufficient time available to serve Investec effectively.
The board has not appointed a deputy chairman.
Senior independent director George Alford was appointed senior independent director on 17 November 2011 following the appointment of Sir David Prosser as joint chairman.
He is available to address any concerns or questions from shareholders and non-executive directors.
Company secretaries David Miller is the company secretary of Investec plc and Benita Coetsee is the company secretary of Investec Limited.
They are responsible for the flow of information to the board and its committees and for ensuring compliance with board procedures.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretaries, whose appointment and removal are a board matter.
Les Penfold is the global head of company secretarial and coordinates and drives the secretarial functions and is responsible for all board governance matters.
Board meetings The combined boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited meet jointly at least six times annually, excluding an annual two day board strategy meeting.
Three board meetings were held in the UK and three in South Africa, in line with the requirements of our DLC structure.
Furthermore, the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited held one additional meeting each in the UK and South Africa, respectively.
The joint chairmen are responsible for setting the agenda for each meeting, in consultation with the chief executive officer and the company secretaries.
Comprehensive information packs on matters to be considered by the board are provided to directors in advance of the meetings.
The non-executive directors met during the period under review in the absence of the executive directors and the senior independent director met with the non-executive directors in the absence of the joint chairmen during the year.
Details of directors attendance at board meetings during the financial year ended 31 March 2012: Number of normal board meetings Number of meetings Investec plc and Investec Limited board held during the year attended during the year Independent Executive directors S Koseff chief executive officer 6 6 B Kantor managing director 6 6 GR Burger group risk and finance director 6 6 HJ du Toit 6 5 Non-executive directors HS Herman chairman 6 4 No Sir David Prosser joint chairman 6 5 Yes F Titi joint chairman 6 6 No SE Abrahams 6 5 Yes GFO Alford senior independent director 6 6 Yes CA Carolus 6 5 Yes PKO Crosthwaite 6 6 Yes OC Dickson 6 6 Yes B Fried 6 5 No H Fukuda OBE 6 6 Yes IR Kantor 6 6 No MP Malungani 6 6 No PRS Thomas 6 6 Yes Board appointments retirements during the reporting period: Hugh Herman retired as a non-executive director and chairman of the board on 17 November 2011 and attended all meetings up to the date of his retirement.
Sir David Prosser and Fani Titi were appointed as joint chairmen with effect from 17 November 2011 Sir David Prosser was the senior independent director up to 16 November 2011 and George Alford was appointed as senior independent director on 17 November 2011.
Fani Titi is independent for Investec Limited but not for Investec plc.
The number of meetings held during the year excludes the non-scheduled deals board meeting held on 23 August 2011, which meeting was not attended by Hugh Herman, Hendrik du Toit and Brad Fried.
196 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Board committees In exercising control of the group, the directors are empowered to delegate to various board and executive committees.
The committees have specific terms of reference, appropriately skilled members and access to specialist advice when necessary.
Below is an overview of the various committees composition and responsibilities.
The full terms of reference are available on our website.
Investec plc and Investec Limited board of directors DLC Three nominaFive NEDs Meets Meets executives Meets Four Board risk tions and three four DLC audit four eight six indepenand capital directors indepentimes committee times NEDs five times dent NEDs committee affairs dent per annum per annum indepenper annum committee dent Responsibilities, inter alia, include: Responsibilities, inter alia, include: Responsibilities, inter alia, include: Identification and nomination of board Review and oversight of combined Monitoring and implementation of risk candidates reports, financial statements and the management policies and procedures integrated report Determining and evaluating Review of the adequacy of the risk the adequacy, efficiency and External and internal audit oversight management structure and processes appropriateness of the groups Compliance oversight Ratifying exposure limits for market, corporate governance counterparty and credit risk Monitoring the effectiveness of the Reviewing board composition and systems of internal financial control Monitoring of liquidity and operational recommending changes risks.
Reviewing any matters affecting the Succession planning and financial safety of the DLC group.
Investec DLC Four plc and Meets Meets Four DLC Executive  four 12 times indepencapital risk review ration dent Limited times per annum dent NEDs committee forum committee NEDs audit per annum committees Capital planning, Measuring, Responsibilities, inter alia, include: Audit and compliance allocation and monitoring and implementation forums Determining, developing and structuring, mitigation of agreeing the executive directors performance enterprise wide and management remuneration measurement, risk.
framework investment Ensuring appropriate incentives to decisions and encourage enhanced performance capital based in contribution to the success of incentivisation.
the group and alignment with the corporate objectives and business Three executives Three executives strategy.
one independent and senior NED management Meets at least Meets weekly quarterly Three Meets DLC social indepenfour and ethics dent times committee NEDs per annum Responsibilities, inter alia, include: Monitoring the group's social and economic development and good corporate citizenship.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 197 Corporate governance continued The following table indicates non-executive board representation on the board committees as at the date of this report: DLC nominaDLC Investec Investec DLC tions and Board social IndepenDLC plc Limited remunedirectors risk and and ethics Members dent audit audit audit ration affairs capital committee Sir David Prosser joint chairman Yes F Titi joint chairman No Chair Chair SE Abrahams Yes Chair Chair Chair GFO Alford senior independent Yes Chair director CA Carolus Yes PKO Crosthwaite Yes OC Dickson Yes B Fried No H Fukuda OBE Yes IR Kantor No MP Malungani No PRS Thomas Yes Fani Titi is independent for Investec Limited but not for Investec plc.
Audit committees In terms of Investecs DLC structure, the board has mandated authority to the Investec plc audit committee and the Investec Limited audit committee to be the audit committees for those respective companies and their subsidiaries.
A DLC audit committee, which is a combined audit committee of Investec plc and Investec Limited, has responsibility to the board for matters common to both Investec plc and Investec Limited.
The audit committees comply with all legal and regulatory requirements, as required under both UK and SA legislation and apply the corporate governance principles for audit committees as required by both the UK Corporate Governance Code and King III.
Role and responsibilities The responsibilities of the audit committees include: Reviewing and making recommendations for the boards approval of Investecs combined and individual company reports and financial statements and other published or released financial reporting documents or statements Reviewing the appropriateness of the combined groups and individual companies accounting policies and their application Overseeing the external audit process in the review of reports and accounts Considering the external audit scope, both attest and non-attest fees, and audit findings Reviewing internal audit plans, reports, capacity and capability, and the reliance by the external auditors on the work and findings of Internal Audit Focusing on our compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the relevant listing requirements Overseeing integrated reporting Ensuring that the finance functions of both Investec Limited and its subsidiaries and Investec plc and its subsidiaries are adequately skilled, resourced and experienced as well as ensuring that the group finance director has appropriate expertise and experience Ensuring the effectiveness of the groups internal financial controls and that no material weaknesses in financial control have been identified Ensuring that the external auditors of both Investec Limited and Investec plc are independent Making the necessary recommendations to the board on the going concern statements.
The committees terms of reference are available on our website.
198 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information The audit committees are required to report to the board and shareholders on how they have discharged their duties.
Refer to the annexure on pages 214 to 216 for a report on the following: Audit committees formal terms of reference that have been approved by the board, and whether the committees have satisfied their responsibilities for the year in compliance with their terms of reference How the audit committees have fulfilled their duties Whether or not the audit committees considered and recommended the internal audit charter for approval by the board Description of the working relationship with the head of internal audit chief audit executive Information about any other responsibilities assigned to the audit committee by the board Whether the audit committees complied with their legal, regulatory or other responsibilities Whether or not the audit committees recommended the integrated report to the board for approval.
Membership and attendance All audit committee members are required to meet predetermined skills, competency and experience requirements.
We believe the audit committees have the necessary expertise to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Attendance by current members at audit committee meetings during the financial year ended 31 March 2012: DLC Investec plc Investec Limited audit committee audit committee audit committee Number of Number of Number of Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of meetings Members meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended SE Abrahams chairman 4 4 4 3 4 3 GFO Alford 4 4 4 4 4 4 OC Dickson 4 4 4 4 4 4 Sir David Prosser 4 4 4 1 4 1 PRS Thomas 4 4 4 4 4 4 CB Tshili 4 3 n a n a 4 4 Sir David Prosser stepped down from the audit committees on his appointment as joint chairman, with effect from 17 November 2011.
Busi Tshili is a non-executive director of Investec Bank Limited, a major subsidiary of Investec Limited, and represents its interest on this committee.
Busi is the group finance director of Peu Group Proprietary Limited.
Audit sub-committees Audit sub-committees for Investec plc and Investec Limited, and other regulated subsidiaries, have been established.
These allow senior managers of the business units, who do not attend the main Investec plc and Investec Limited audit committee meetings, to meet with the risk and control functions and to provide input on the risk and control environment of the business units.
Members of the Investec plc and Investec Limited audit committees are entitled to attend these meetings and, as a general rule, at least one non-executive director does so.
Audit and compliance implementation forums Audit and compliance implementation forums have been established for Investec plc and Investec Limited and their principal operating subsidiaries.
Each audit and compliance implementation forum is attended by key executives and heads of risk and control functions.
Nonexecutive directors have an open invitation to attend.
These forums monitor and report on the implementation of recommendations and other matters that the relevant audit committee or audit sub-committee consider important.
They facilitate the timely understanding and escalation of, and reaction to, risk and control matters that require a response from management.
The forums are key to enhancing risk and control consciousness and the associated control environment of the group.
The forums support and provide important insight to the audit committees.
Essentially, the forums act as a filter, enabling the audit committees to concentrate their efforts on matters of appropriate materiality.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 199 Corporate governance continued DLC remuneration committee Role and responsibilities Details of the role and responsibilities of the remuneration committee are set out in the remuneration report on page 251.
Membership and attendance Attendance by current members at remuneration committee meetings: Number of meetings Number of meetings Members held during the year attended during the year GFO Alford chairman 12 12 PKO Crosthwaite 12 10 OC Dickson 12 12 Sir David Prosser 12 11 DLC nominations and directors affairs committee The nominations and directors affairs committee NOMDAC has combined the duties of a nominations committee as well as that of a directors affairs committee as required under section 64B of the South African Banks Act.
Role and responsibilities The NOMDAC is responsible for, among other things: Identifying and nominating the approval of board candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise Determining and evaluating the adequacy, efficiency and appropriateness of the corporate governance structure and practices of the group Establishing and maintaining a board directorship continuity programme Regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience of the boards and board committees compared with their current situations and making recommendations to the boards regarding any changes Nominating successors to the key positions in Investec Limited and Investec plc and all their major subsidiaries, in order to ensure that a management succession plan is in place.
During the period under review the committee dealt with the following issues: Reviewed the structure, size and composition of the board and the principal board committees In particular, the committee discussed the implications of the Davies Review Women on Boards: March 2011.
There are currently three women on the board, representing 19% of the total board membership.
It is the aspiration of the board to achieve 25% female representation by 2015 Succession As noted above, the skills, knowledge, experience, gender, age and country of residence of the board are regularly reviewed to ensure there is an appropriate balance between each, at present and going forward.
While in itself not a single determinant to the value a director can add, tenure of service is a further factor that the committee considers within the context of succession planning.
This year the committee has paid particular attention to the role of chairman of the audit committee, who has served as chairman of that committee for more than seven years, in order to ensure that robust succession plans are in place for a complex and challenging role Executive management structure King III Impact of the new South African Companies Act of 2008, as amended, on matters relating to corporate governance The UK Corporate Governance Code and related governance developments including the Financial Reporting Councils guidance on board effectiveness Board and director evaluation process.
200 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Membership and attendance Attendance by current members at NOMDAC meetings during the financial year ended 31 March 2012: Number of meetings Number of meetings Members held during the year attended during the year F Titi chairman 4 4 SE Abrahams 4 4 Sir David Prosser 4 3 KXT Socikwa 4 2 PRS Thomas 4 4 Karl Socikwa is a non-executive director of Investec Bank Limited, a major subsidiary of Investec Limited, and represents its interest on this committee.
DLC social and ethics committee The DLC social and ethics committee is mandated by the board to be the social and ethics committee of Investec plc and Investec Limited and their subsidiaries.
The Companies Act, 71 of 2008, as amended the Act, provides that all listed public companies must establish a social and ethics committee before 1 May 2012.
The Act enables the group to appoint a social and ethics committee for the holding company, which will fulfil the required functions on behalf of the subsidiary companies.
Due to the required functions of the committee which are universal in nature, the board resolved to constitute the committee to monitor the activities for the group and not just Investec Limited.
Role and responsibilities The DLC social and ethics committee is responsible to monitor the groups activities, having regard to any relevant legislation, other legal requirements or prevailing codes of best practice, with regard to matters relating to: Social and economic development Good corporate citizenship Monitoring Investec Limited and its subsidiaries activities, with regard to matters relating to: The Employment Equity Act The Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act Contribution to development of the communities in which its activities are predominantly conducted or within which its products and services are predominantly marketed.
Meetings take place at least quarterly.
The committee was recently constituted and the board approved the committees terms of reference which are available on our website.
As it is newly constituted, the committee had no monitoring activities for the financial year ended 31 March 2012.
Members F Titi chairman CA Carolus B Kantor S Koseff PRS Thomas Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 201 Corporate governance continued Board risk and capital committee The board risk and capital committee BRCC is the appointed board committee to meet the requirements of the UK and SA regulators for the board of directors of a bank to appoint a risk and capital management committee.
The purpose of the BRCC is to determine, under delegated authority from and as a sub-committee of the board, the categories of risk, specific risks and the extent of such risks which the group on a consolidated basis, and its banks on a solo basis, should undertake.
Role and responsibilities The committee will ensure that: All decisions of the board on risk management policies and procedures are implemented and monitored throughout Investec The risk management structure is adequate, with sufficient resources and budget, and exceptions are reported to the board Exposure limits for market, counterparty and credit risk are ratified: liquidity and operational risk are also monitored There is an ongoing process of risk and control identification, particularly for any changes to business objectives and the bases of measuring risk There is sufficient capital in relation to existing and potential risks to the organisation.
The BRCC defines the processes by which internal financial control, risk and capital management are assumed and monitored.
The group Risk Management division provides the expertise, processes and techniques from which the processes can be built and monitored daily.
A number of committees are dedicated to aspects of risk management and report directly to the board and the BRCC.
These include the DLC capital committee, executive risk review forum, asset and liability committees, group credit committees, group market risk forum, group deal forum, operational risk committees forums and group legal risk forum.
Membership and attendance Attendance by current members at BRCC meetings during the financial year ended 31 March 2012: Number of meetings Number of meetings Members held during the year attended during the year Executive directors S Koseff chairman 6 5 GR Burger group risk and finance director 6 6 B Kantor managing director 6 5 Non-executive directors Sir David Prosser 6 4 F Titi 6 5 SE Abrahams 6 6 GFO Alford 6 6 B Fried 6 6 H Fukuda OBE 6 5 MP Malungani 6 3 KXT Socikwa 6 3 PRS Thomas 6 6 Karl Socikwa is a non-executive director of Investec Bank Limited, a major subsidiary of Investec Limited, and represents its interests on this committee.
Additional meetings are held throughout the year when necessary.
202 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Executive risk review forum Material incidents The executive risk review forum ERRF is mandated by the BRCC to be the ERRF of Investec plc and Investec Limited and their subsidiaries, as regards enterprise-wide risk and and losses its measurement, monitoring and mitigation.
and significant The purpose of the ERRF is to supplement the BRCC.
It assists in determining the categories breaches of of risk, the specific risks and the extent of such risks which the group should undertake.
systems and controls are Role and responsibilities reported to the The ERRF: board risk and Evaluates the most significant risks Investec faces in the ordinary course of business capital committee Reviews the risk models including, but not limited to, credit models which need to be and the audit incorporated appropriately into the allocation of capital committees.
Ensures that limits are adhered to and that agreed recommendations to mitigate risk are implemented Acts as agent of the board to ensure that all decisions of the board on risk management policies and procedures are implemented and monitored throughout the group Ensures the group-wide risk management structure is adequately resourced and has an appropriate budget Provides regular reports to the board focusing on effectiveness of the control framework Provides regular reports on group-wide adherence to regulatory requirements and advises on how changes to regulatory requirements will affect us Ensures that there is an ongoing process of risk and control identification, particularly in line with any changes to business objectives, such as the commencement of a new trading area or product stream.
Meetings take place every Friday except on BRCC dates.
DLC capital committee The DLC capital committee is mandated by the BRCC to be the capital committee of Investec plc and Investec Limited and their subsidiaries, as regards capital allocation and structuring, performance measurement, investment decisions and capital based incentivisation.
Role and responsibilities The DLC capital committee is responsible for: Determining the DLC groups capital requirements Reviewing capital adequacy submissions to be made to regulators Considering the ongoing requirements and consequences of Basel III and other regulatory requirements and their impacts on regulatory capital requirements Reviewing the risk models which need to be incorporated appropriately into the allocation of capital Considering, determining and approving capital issues relating to any corporate structuring for acquisitions Monitoring the capital positions and returns on internal capital of each business unit Submission of capital recommendations to the board risk and capital committee.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 203 Corporate governance continued Management and succession planning Global business unit heads, geographic management and the heads of central and group service functions are appointed by executive management and endorsed by the board, based on the skills and experience deemed necessary to perform the required function.
In general, managers do not have fixed term employment contracts and there are no employment contracts with managers for a term of more than three years.
Our management structure, reporting lines and the division of responsibilities are built around a geographic, divisional and functional network, as depicted on page 57.
Each strategic business unit has a management committee and is responsible for implementing operational decisions, managing risk and aligning divisional objectives with the group strategy and vision.
Matters of succession are considered regularly by the NOMDAC.
Internal control Risks and controls are reviewed and monitored regularly for relevance and effectiveness.
The BRCC and audit committees assist the board in this regard.
Sound risk management practices are promoted by the group risk management function, which is independent of operational management.
The board recognises its responsibility for the overall risk and control framework and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal control is designed to mitigate, not eliminate, significant risks faced.
It is recognised that such a system provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material error, omission, misstatement or loss.
This is achieved within the group through a combination of risk identification, evaluation and monitoring processes, appropriate decision and oversight forums, and assurance and control functions such as group risk management, internal audit and compliance.
These ongoing processes, which comply with the Turnbull guidance, were in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Internal audit reports any control recommendations to senior management, group Risk Management and the relevant audit committee.
Appropriate processes, including review by the audit and compliance implementation forums, ensure that timely corrective action is taken on matters raised by internal audit.
Significant risks are reviewed regularly by the ERRF and by the BRCC.
Material incidents and losses and significant breaches of systems and controls are reported to the board risk and capital committee and the audit committees.
Reports from the audit committees, BRCC and risk and control functions are reviewed at each board meeting.
Certain statutory duties with respect to directors conflicts of interest are in force under the UK Companies Act 2006 and the South African Companies Act, as amended.
In accordance with these Acts and the Articles of Association, the board may authorise any matter that otherwise may involve the directors breaching their duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
The board has adopted a procedure, as set out in the Articles, that includes a requirement for directors to submit, in writing, disclosures detailing any actual or potential conflict for consideration and, if considered appropriate, approval.
Internal financial controls Internal financial controls are based on established policies and procedures.
Management is responsible for implementing internal financial controls, ensuring that personnel are suitably qualified, that appropriate segregation exists between duties, and that there is suitable independent review.
These areas are monitored by the board through the audit committees and are independently assessed by Internal Audit and Compliance.
Processes are in place to monitor internal control effectiveness, identify and report material breakdowns, and ensure that timely and appropriate corrective action is taken.
Group Finance and Investor Relations coordinate, review and comment on the monthly financial and regulatory reports, and facilitate the interim and annual financial reporting process, including the independent audit process.
Risk management The board is responsible for the total process of risk management and the systems of internal control.
A number of committees and forums assist in this regard.
Senior management is responsible for identifying risks and implementing appropriate mitigation processes and controls within their businesses.
The independent group risk management functions, accountable to the board, are responsible for establishing, reviewing and monitoring the process of risk management.
Group Risk Management reports regularly to the BRCC and the ERRF.
Risk management is discussed in more detail on pages 91 to 185.
204 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Internal audit Each significant jurisdiction has an internal audit presence that is appropriate for the size, nature and extent of business conducted.
Smaller geographies are supported by the internal audit teams of the Investec plc and Investec Limited groups.
A risk-based audit approach is followed and the audit committee approves annual audit plans.
Heads of internal audit report to the chairmen of the relevant audit committees and to the head of corporate governance and compliance.
For further details on the internal audit function, see page 186.
External audit Investecs external auditors are Ernst & Young LLP and Ernst & Young Inc. at a DLC level.
Ernst & Young Inc. and KPMG Inc. are joint auditors of the Investec Limited silo.
The independence of the external auditors is reviewed by the audit committees each year.
The audit committees meet with the external auditors to review the scope of the external audit, budgets, the extent of non-audit services rendered and all other audit matters.
The external auditors are invited to attend audit committee meetings and have access to the chairman of each audit committee.
Recommendations on the rotation of auditors, as laid out in the UK Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standard 3 as well as Directive 6 2008 of the South African Banks Act, were adhered to during the year under review.
Non-audit services are dealt with in terms of an agreed policy which states that: External audit firms will have internal standards and processes to monitor and maintain their independence and these must be presented to the audit committees on an annual basis.
These will be considered based on the explicit exclusions contained in existing rules and guidelines Safeguards must be in place to ensure that there is no threat to the objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit, resulting from the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
Total audit fees paid to all auditors for the year ended were 14.1 million 2011: 11.7 million, of which 4.9 million 2011: 3.0 million related to the provision of non-audit services.
Compliance The compliance function ensures that Investec continuously complies with existing and emerging regulation impacting on its operations.
We recognise our responsibility to conduct business in accordance with the laws and regulations in the countries and areas in which we operate.
The compliance function is supported by group Compliance and compliance officers in the business units.
For further details on the compliance function, see pages 187 and 188.
Regulation and supervision Investec is subject to external regulation and supervision by various supervisory authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, the main ones being the UK Financial Services Authority FSA, the Banking Supervision Department BSD of the South African Reserve Bank SARB, and the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority APRA.
Some of our businesses are subject to supervision by the South African Financial Services Board, South African National Credit Regulator and the South African Financial Intelligence Centre.
The SARB is the lead supervisor of the combined Investec group, comprising Investec plc and Investec Limited.
SARB is the supervisor of Investec Limited, while the FSA is the supervisor of Investec plc.
We strive to establish and maintain open and active dialogue with regulators and supervisors.
Processes are in place to respond proactively and pragmatically to emerging issues and we report regularly to regulators and supervisory bodies.
Where appropriate, we participate in industry committees and discussion groups to maintain and enhance the regulatory environment in which we operate.
Communication, public disclosure obligations and stakeholder relations The board recognises that effective communication is integral in building stakeholder value and is committed to providing meaningful, transparent, timely and accurate financial and non-financial information to primary stakeholders, as defined overleaf.
The purpose is to help these stakeholders make meaningful assessments and informed investment decisions about the group.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 205 Corporate governance continued We endeavour to present a balanced and understandable assessment of our position by addressing material matters of significant interest and concern.
We seek to highlight the key risks to which we consider ourselves exposed and our responses to minimise the impact of these risks.
Another objective is to show a balance between the positive and negative aspects of our activities in order to achieve a comprehensive and fair account of our performance.
Our primary stakeholders include employees, shareholders, government, regulatory bodies, clients, depositors, suppliers, rating agencies, the media, communities and industry equity and debt analysts.
The board appreciates the importance of ensuring an appropriate balance in meeting the diverse needs and expectations of all our stakeholders and building lasting relationships with them.
As a requirement of our DLC structure, we comply with the disclosure obligations contained in the applicable listing rules of the UKLA and JSE and other exchanges on which our shares are listed and with any public disclosure obligations as required by the FSA and SARB.
We also recognise that from time to time we may be required to adhere to public disclosure obligations in other countries where we have operations, for example Australia.
The Investor Relations division has day-to-day responsibility for ensuring appropriate communication with stakeholders and, together with the Company Secretarial division, ensures that we meet our public disclosure obligations.
We have a board approved policy statement in place to ensure that we comply with all relevant public disclosure obligations and uphold the boards communication and disclosure philosophy.
The processes we have adopted to ensure that we comply with all public disclosure obligations are set out below: Significant announcements are released directly to the market primarily via the services offered by the London and Johannesburg stock exchanges, and also via the services offered by the other exchanges where our shares are listed.
In terms of our DLC structure, announcements are released almost simultaneously on all exchanges, thereby ensuring fair treatment of all stakeholders.
Copies of these announcements are placed on our website as soon as possible following confirmation of release on the relevant exchanges, but within 24 hours at the latest, and are kept on the website for several years We maintain a comprehensive investor relations website, which ensures that all stakeholders readily have access to historical and current information We host at least four investor presentations a year: two before we enter a closed period and on the day we release interim and year-end results.
Investor presentations are broadcast live via video conference from our offices in the UK and South Africa.
In addition, we publish two interim management statements i. e. quarterly updates as required in terms of the UKLA listing rules.
Stakeholders are notified of these events via the stock exchange news or regulatory information services and are welcome to attend and engage with executive and non-executive directors.
Stakeholders also have the option of using a live telephone conference facility or accessing the audio webcasts of the presentation via our website.
Occasionally, we are invited to attend external third party investor conferences at which we present our financial and operational performance Regular contact is maintained with major stakeholders through a comprehensive investor relations programme, which includes meetings with executive management, investor and client road shows and presentations to the investment community, communication by email, regular telephone conferences and liaison with private shareholders in response to their enquiries.
Investor Relations reports back regularly to the operating divisions, the group executive and the board on matters and concerns raised by stakeholders.
Copies of analyst, rating agency and other relevant reports are also circulated to the board Our communication policy focuses on ensuring that all employees worldwide are informed of business developments and activities.
In this regard a number of channels are used, including our quarterly magazine Impact, comprehensive intranet sites and staff updates hosted by the executive All shareholders are encouraged to attend the annual general meeting and to raise issues and participate in discussions on items included in the notice of the meeting.
The meeting enables the board to communicate with shareholders and for shareholders to ask questions in person.
The chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nominations and directors affairs committees, as well as the senior independent director, attend the meeting to respond to relevant questions.
All valid proxy appointments are recorded and counted and, at general meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes cast is available to all shareholders.
We propose a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue and do not bundle resolutions together inappropriately.
All resolutions are determined on a poll.
Shareholders are requested to approve our report and accounts and our remuneration report.
The outcome of the voting on the items of business are released on the stock exchange news services or regulatory information and posted on our website after the meeting.
During the year, the chief executive officer, the group managing director and other members of executive management continued to meet with shareholders in the UK, Europe, USA and South Africa, to understand their issues and concerns and discuss matters relating to our activities and performance.
No new material or price sensitive information is provided at such meetings.
Non-executive directors and the senior independent director are available and will attend meetings if requested and, as mentioned above, feedback on any issues or concerns raised by investors is provided to the board.
The chairmen and the non-executive directors are committed to communicating with shareholders and shareholder representative bodies, to help develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
We will continue to engage these bodies so as to remain informed of emerging governance issues.
The chairmen and senior independent non-executive director held a number of meetings in this regard during the year.
206 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Dealings in securities We continually Dealings in securities are subject to the personal account dealing policy that has been in operation for a number of years.
The policy is based on regulatory guidance and industry strive to conduct practice and is updated to ensure compliance with applicable regulations and industry good our business with practice.
uncompromising The policy is designed to discourage speculative trading and highlights the potential conflicts integrity and of interest between the interests of employees and the Investec group or any of its clients, shareholders or potential shareholders.
The UKs disclosure and transparency rules require fairness, so as to us to disclose transactions in shares and related securities by all persons discharging promote trust and management responsibilities and their connected persons.
These include directors and senior executives of the group.
confidence in the banking industry.
The UK and South African Companies Acts require directors to disclose any direct or indirect material interest they have in contracts, including proposed contracts, which are of significance to the companys business.
Directors are required to make these disclosures at board meetings, and all disclosures made are recorded in the minutes of that meeting.
Directors dealings The remuneration report, as set out on pages 235 to 262, contains details of Investec shares held by directors.
Directors dealings in the securities of Investec plc and Investec Limited are subject to a policy based on regulatory requirements and governance best practice.
All directors dealings require the prior approval of the Compliance division and the joint chairmen or, in the joint chairmens absence, George Alford as the senior independent director or Sam Abrahams as the chairman of the audit committees.
All dealings of persons discharging management responsibilities require approval by line management, the Compliance division and the chairman.
Values and code of conduct We have a strong organisational culture of entrenched values, which forms the cornerstone of our behaviour towards all stakeholders.
These values are embodied in a written statement of values, which serves as our code of ethics, and is continually reinforced.
We view all employees as the custodians of ethical behaviour, which is reinforced through internal processes, policies and procedures.
As such all new employees are invited, and are strongly encouraged, to attend an induction process at which our philosophies, values, culture, risk management and compliance procedures are explained and discussed.
Our organisation development team plays an important role in facilitating the understanding and ongoing practice of our values, philosophies and culture.
In addition to our values, acceptable business practices are communicated through the Human Resources practices manual, available on the intranet.
Approved and authorised for issue by the board of directors on 13 June 2012 and signed on its behalf by: David Miller Benita Coetsee Company secretary Company secretary Investec plc Investec Limited Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 207 Directorate Investec plc and Investec Limited Executive directors details as at the date of this report Stephen Koseff 60 Glynn R Burger 55 Chief executive officer Group risk and finance director BCom, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBA BAcc, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBL Committees: Board risk and capital, DLC capital, DLC social and Committees: Board risk and capital, DLC capital and global credit ethics and global credit Glynn joined Investec in 1980.
His positions within Investec have Stephen joined Investec in 1980.
He has had diverse experience included chief accounting officer, group risk manager and joint within Investec as chief accounting officer and general manager of managing director for South Africa.
banking, treasury and merchant banking.
Current directorships: Investec Bank Limited and a number of Current directorships: The Bidvest Group Limited, Investec Wealth Investec subsidiaries.
& Investment and a number of Investec subsidiaries.
Hendrik du Toit 50 Bernard Kantor 62 Investec Asset Management chief executive officer Managing director BCom Law, BCom Hons cum laude, MCom cum laude, MPhil CTA Cambridge Committees: Board risk and capital, DLC capital, DLC social and After lecturing economics at the University of Stellenbosch, Hendrik ethics and global credit joined the Investment division of Old Mutual from where he moved to Investec in 1991 as portfolio manager and later chief executive Bernard joined Investec in 1980.
He has had varied experience within officer of Investec Asset Management.
Investec as a manager of the Trading division, marketing manager and chief operating officer.
Current directorships: Investec Asset Management Holdings Pty Limited and Investec Asset Management Limited as well as their Current directorships: Phumelela Gaming and Leisure Limited, subsidiaries.
Investec Wealth & Investment and a number of Investec subsidiaries.
Non-executive directors details as at the date of this report Sir David Prosser 68 Fani Titi 49 Joint chairman Joint chairman BSc Hons, FIA BSc Hons, MA, MBA Committees: DLC remuneration, DLC nominations and directors Committees: Board risk and capital, DLC nominations and directors affairs and board risk and capital affairs and DLC social and ethics Sir David was previously chief executive of Legal & General Group Fani is chairman of Investec Bank Limited and formerly the chairman PLC, joining Legal & General in 1988 as group director investments of Tiso Group Limited.
becoming deputy chief executive in January 1991 and group chief Current directorships: Investec Bank Limited Chairman, Tsiya executive in September 1991.
Sir David was previously chairman of Group Pty Limited and a number of its investee companies, the Financial Services Skills Council.
Investec Employee Benefits Limited and Investec Asset Management Current directorships: Investec Bank plc chairman Pippbrook Holdings Pty Limited.
Limited, Epsom Downs Racecourse Limited and The Royal Automobile Club Limited.
Joint chairmen with effect from 17 November 2011.
The dates on which the directors were appointed to the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited can be found on page 193.
Details of the Investec committees can be found on pages 197 to 203.
208 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Non-executive directors details as at the date of this report continued Sam E Abrahams 73 Olivia C Dickson 51 FCA, CA SA MA Oxon, MSc Lon, CDipAF Committees: DLC audit, Investec plc audit, Investec Limited audit, Committees: DLC audit, Investec plc audit, Investec Limited audit DLC nominations and directors affairs, board risk and capital and and DLC remuneration DLC capital and global credit Olivia is a non-executive director of Canada Life Limited, the senior Sam is a former international partner and South African managing independent director and chair of the audit committee of Invista Real partner of Arthur Andersen.
Estate Investment Management Holdings plc and a trustee director and chair of the risk and assurance committee of the Mineworkers Current directorships: Investec Bank Limited, The Foschini Group Pension Scheme.
Olivia is also a member of the Financial Reporting Limited and a number of Investec subsidiaries.
Councils board for actuarial standards, the Financial Services Authoritys regulatory decisions committee and the Pensions George FO Alford 63 Regulators determinations panel.
Most recently Olivia served Senior independent director as a non-executive director and chair of the risk and compliance BSc Econ, FCIS, FIPD, MSI committee of Aon Limited and prior to that as a senior adviser to the Financial Services Authority.
Previously Olivia was a managing Committees: DLC audit, Investec plc audit, Investec Limited audit, director at JP Morgan, where she served in a number of senior DLC remuneration and board risk and capital roles including head of European derivatives brokerage.
While at JP Morgan, Olivia was a non-executive director and chair of the audit George is a former head of private banking and personnel at Kleinwort committee of the London International Financial Futures Exchange.
Benson Group and was a senior adviser to the UK Financial Services Authority.
Current directorships: Canada Life Limited, Canada Life Group UK Limited, Canada Life Asset Management Limited, Invista Real Current directorships: Investec Bank plc.
Estate Investment Management Holdings plc, Invista Real Estate Investment Management Limited, Trustee of the Mineworkers Cheryl A Carolus 53 Pension Scheme Limited.
BA Law, BEd Committees: DLC social and ethics Bradley Fried 46 BCom, CA SA, MBA Cheryl acted as the South African high commissioner to London between 1998 and 2001 and was chief executive officer of South Committees: Board risk and capital African Tourism.
She is chairperson of South African Airways.
Bradley joined Investec in 1999 and has held the positions of joint Current directorships: fide Beers Consolidated Mines Limited, Gold head of investment banking and chief executive of Investec Bank Fields Limited, South African Airways Pty Limited, Mercedes-Benz plc.
He is on the audit committee of HM Treasury and is the chief South Africa Pty Limited, WWF South Africa and International, The executive in residence at Judge business school.
IQ Business Group Pty Limited, Fenner Conveyor Belting South Current directorships: Investec Wealth & Investment Limited, Africa Pty Limited, Ponahalo Capital Pty Limited, Investec Asset Grovepoint Capital LLP and non-executive director of the Court of Management Holdings Pty Limited, executive chairperson of Bank of England.
Peotona Group Holdings Pty Limited and director of a number of the Peotona group companies.
Haruko Fukuda OBE 65 MA Cantab, DSc Peregrine KO Crosthwaite 63 MA Hons in modern languages Committees: Board risk and capital Committees: DLC remuneration Haruko was previously chief executive officer of the World Gold Council, and senior adviser at Lazard.
She is former vice chairman of Perry is a former chairman of Investec Investment Banking Securities Nikko Europe plc and a partner of James Capel & Co and a former Limited and director of Investec Bank plc.
director of AB Volvo and of Foreign and Colonial Investment Trust plc.
Current directorships: Investec Bank plc, Jupiter Green Investment Current directorships: Director of Aberdeen Asian Smaller Companies Trust, Melrose plc and Toluna plc.
She is an adviser to Metro AG.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 209 Directorate Investec plc and Investec Limited continued Non-executive directors details as at the date of this report continued Ian R Kantor 65 Peter RS Thomas 67 BSc Eng, MBA CA SA Current directorships: Insinger fide Beaufort Holdings SA in which Committees: DLC audit, Investec plc audit, Investec Limited audit, Investec Limited indirectly holds an 8.6% interest, Investec Bank board risk and capital, DLC nominations and directors affairs, DLC plc, Bank Insinger fide Beaufort NV where he is chairman of the social and ethics and global credit management board.
Peter was the former managing director of The Unisec Group Limited.
M Peter Malungani 54 BCom, MAP, LDP Current directorships: Investec Bank Limited, various Investec companies, JCI Limited and various unlisted companies.
Committees: Board risk and capital Peter is chairman and founder of Peu Group Pty Limited.
Current directorships: Phumelela Gaming and Leisure Limited Chairman, Investec Bank Limited, Investec Asset Management Holdings Pty Limited, Peu Group Pty Limited and a number of Peu subsidiaries.
210 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Directorate Investec plc and Investec Limited subsidiaries Investec Bank Limited A subsidiary of Investec Limited Directorate Fani Titi 49 Bernard Kantor 62 Karl-Bart XT Socikwa 43 Non-executive chairman CTA BCom, LLB, MAP, IPBM IMD BSc Hons, MA, MBA Stephen Koseff 60 Bradley Tapnack 65 BCom, CA SA David M Lawrence 60 BCom, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBA Deputy chairman M Peter Malungani 54 Peter RS Thomas 67 BA Econ Hons, MCom BCom, MAP, LDP CA SA Sam E Abrahams 73 Sir David Prosser 68 C Busi Tshili 48 FCA, CA SA BSc Hons, FIA CA SA Glynn R Burger 55 BAcc, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBL Investec Bank plc A subsidiary of Investec plc Directorate Sir David Prosser 68 Bernard Kantor 62 Kevin McKenna 45 Non-executive chairman CTA BCom, BAcc BSc Hons, FIA Ian R Kantor 65 Stephen Koseff 60 David M van der Walt 47 BSc Eng, MBA BCom, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBA Chief executive officer Fani Titi 49 Ian R Wohlman 57 BCom Hons, CA SA BSc Hons, MA, MBA ACIB George FO Alford 63 Allen Zimbler 62 Peregrine KO Crosthwaite 63 BSc Econ, FCIS, FIPD, MSI BA Hons, MBA, PhD MA Hons Investec Asset Management Limited A subsidiary of Investec plc Directorate Hugh S Herman 71 Lord Flight 63 Kim M McFarland 47 Non-executive chairman MA, MBA BAcc, BCom, CA SA, MBA BA, LLB, LLD hc John C Green 46 John T McNab 45 Hendrik J du Toit 50 BCom, LLB BEng, MEng, CFA Chief executive officer Luc JJJ van Hoof 58 Mark I Samuelson 47 BCom Law, BCom Hons cum laude, BCom, CFA MCom cum laude, MPhil Cambridge Bernard Kantor 62 CTA Philip GS Saunders 54 David J Aird 45 MA Hons BA Hons Stephen Koseff 60 BCom, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBA Bradley Tapnack 65 Domenico Ferrini 43 BCom, CA SA BCom Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 211 Directorate Investec plc and Investec Limited subsidiaries continued Investec Asset Management Holdings Pty Limited A subsidiary of Investec Limited Directorate Hugh S Herman 71 Noluthando P Gosa 49 Kim M McFarland 47 Non-executive chairman BA Hons, MBA BAcc, BCom, CA SA, MBA BA, LLB, LLD hc John C Green 46 John T McNab 45 BCom, LLB BEng, MEng, CFA Hendrik J du Toit 50 Chief executive officer Bernard Kantor 62 Bradley Tapnack 65 BCom Law, BCom Hons cum laude, CTA BCom, CA SA MCom cum laude, MPhil Cambridge Thabo Khojane 39 Fani Titi 49 Cheryl A Carolus 53 BA Econ Hons, BSc Eng BSc Hons, MA, MBA BA Law, BEd Stephen Koseff 60 Domenico Ferrini 43 BCom, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBA BCom M Peter Malungani 54 Jeremy B Gardiner 46 BCom, MAP, LDP BCom Hons Investec Securities Limited A subsidiary of Investec Limited Directorate Andrew WJ Leith 52 Henry E Blumenthal 52 Stephen Koseff 60 Chairman BCom, BAcc, CA SA BCom, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBA BCom, CA SA Kevin Brady 45 Christopher G Clarke 67 Sam E Abrahams 73 BA Hons FCA FCA, CA SA Joubert du Toit Hay 46 Kevin J Kerr 50 Reginald S Berkowitz 75 BCom Hons Acc, CA SA BCom, BAcc, CA SA Natal Law Certificate Investec Bank Mauritius Limited A subsidiary of Investec Bank Limited Directorate David M Lawrence 60 Angelique A Desvaux fide Marigny 36 Peter RS Thomas 67 Chairman LLB, Barrister-at-Law, Maitrise en Droit CA SA BA Econ Hons, MCom Universit fide Paris I-Panthon Sorbonne Pierre fide Chasteigner du Mee 58 Craig C McKenzie 51 ACEA, FBIM, FMAAT BSc, MSc, CFA 212 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Investec Bank Australia Limited A subsidiary of Investec Bank plc Directorate David M Gonski AC 58 Alan H Chonowitz 57 Robert C Mansfield AO 60 Non-executive chairman Deputy chief executive officer and chief BCom, FCPA BCom, LLB financial officer John W Murphy 59 BAcc, MCom, CA BCom, MCom, ACA, FCPA Geoffrey Levy AO 53 Non-executive deputy chairman Stephen Koseff 60 Kathryn Spargo 60 BCom, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBA BCom, LLB, FFIN BA, LLB Hons, FAICD David Clarke 56 Richard A Longes 66 Peter RS Thomas 67 Chief executive officer BA, LLB, MBA CA SA LLB Investec Wealth & Investment Limited A subsidiary of Investec Bank plc Directorate Christopher G Clarke 67 Iain W Hooley 39 Mike Rigby 42 Chairman BA Hons, ACA BA Hons, FCA, Chartered MSCI Non-executive chairman Simon G Kaye 51 Jonathan D Seal 52 FCA Robert Lister 51 Tomas H Street 47 David JH Bulteel 56 Ian Maxwell Scott 66 Jane N Warren 47 Stephen M Elliott 57 BCom Judith E Price 54 Jonathan P Wragg 44 BSc Hons, ACA Bradley Fried 46 Mark JS Redmayne 63 BCom, CA SA, MBA FCA Formerly Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited.
Investec Property Pty Limited An indirect subsidiary of Investec Limited Directorate Stephen Koseff 60 Sam R Leon 62 Robin Magid 39 Chairman Deputy chairman BCom BCom, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBA LLB London David M Nurek 62 Sam Hackner 56 Glynn R Burger 55 Dip Law, Dip Advanced Company Law Chief executive and managing director BAcc, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBL Ronnie Sevitz 68 BCom Hons, CA SA Dave AJ Donald 61 BCom, CA SA, H Dip Tax Law Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 213
