32 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Corporate Governance The Board continues to recognise the importance of a strong focus on corporate governance.
Dr Bruce Smith Chairman The Company and its Board are committed to a high standard of corporate governance and to compliance with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 2012 has been an encouraging Code the Code which was issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2010.
Corporate year for IP Group with good overall governance can be dened as the high level system by which an organisation is directed progress across the business being and controlled to enable it to achieve its business objectives in a manner which is responsible reected in strong growth in the and in accordance with highest standards of value of the Groups portfolio and integrity, transparency and accountability.
The Board is accountable to the Companys its net assets.
shareholders for good governance and this report, together with the Remuneration Report The Board remains focused on the execution of of the Directors set out on pages 42 to 49, the Groups strategy, working with its partners to describes how the Company has applied the main principles of good governance set out develop outstanding businesses, and it continues in the Code during the year under review.
to recognise the importance of a strong focus on The Board considers that the Company has been in compliance with the provisions set corporate governance.
out in the Code throughout the twelve months ended 31 December 2012.
Corporate governance at IP Group is more than just compliance with rules and regulations.
It is The Board an integral part of all of our activities, especially Role and responsibilities of the Board The Board is responsible to shareholders those of the Board and its committees.
for the overall management of the Group, providing entrepreneurial leadership within Our approach to corporate governance, including a framework of controls for assessing and an explanation of the various committees of the managing risk, dening, challenging and Board, is set out in the following section.
interrogating the Groups strategic aims and direction, maintaining the policy and decision-making framework in which such strategic aims are implemented, ensuring Dr Bruce Smith that the necessary financial and human Chairman resources are in place to meet strategic aims, monitoring performance against key financial and non-financial indicators, overseeing the Committee reports system of risk management, setting values Read more about the and standards in governance matters and performance from each monitoring policies and performance on committee on pages corporate social responsibility.
The directors are also responsible for ensuring that obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders are p. 4049 Latest news, share price and other investor information can be found at www.
com IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33 understood and met and a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders is maintained.
Responsibilities of the Board Responsibilities of the All directors are equally accountable to executive directors The Board is responsible to the the Companys shareholders for the proper Groups stakeholders for the stewardship of its affairs and the success The executive directors are of the Company.
overall management of the Group: responsible for the day-to-day The responsibility of the directors is collective, running of the Groups operations.
providing entrepreneurial leadership taking into account their respective roles within a framework of controls for as executive directors and non-executive assessing and managing risk: Responsibilities of the directors.
The Board is collectively responsible dening, challenging and interrogating for the success of the Group.
The executive non-executive directors the Groups strategic aims and direction: directors are directly responsible for running The non-executive directors are the business operations and the non-executive maintaining the policy and decisionresponsible for constructively directors are responsible for constructively making framework in which such challenging proposals on strategy, scrutinising strategic aims are implemented: challenging the executive directors, the performance of management, determining as well as: ensuring that the necessary financial levels of remuneration and for succession and human resources are in place to scrutinising the performance planning for the executive directors.
The meet strategic aims: of management: non-executive directors must also satisfy monitoring performance against key themselves on the integrity of financial determining levels of remuneration financial and non-financial indicators: information and that financial controls and and for succession planning for the overseeing the system of systems of risk management are robust.
executive directors: and risk management: satisfying themselves on the integrity The Board reviews strategic issues on a setting values and standards in of financial information and that regular basis and exercises control over governance matters: financial controls and systems of the performance of the Group by agreeing risk management are robust.
budgetary targets and monitoring performance monitoring policies and performance against those targets.
The Board has overall on corporate social responsibility: and responsibility for the Groups system of internal ensuring effective dialogue with the controls and risk management, as described Groups stakeholders.
Any decisions made by the Board on policies and strategy to be adopted by the Group or changes to current policies and strategy are made following Except for a formal schedule of matters approval of the annual budget: presentations by the executive directors which are reserved for decision and approval accounting policies and procedures or any and a detailed process of review and by the Board, the Board has delegated the matter having a material impact on future challenge by the Board.
Once made, the day-to-day management of the Group to the financial performance of the Group: executive directors are fully empowered Chief Executive officer who is supported by to implement those decisions.
the executive directors and other members of considering and, where appropriate, the internal management team.
The schedule approving directors conicts of interest: of matters reserved for Board decision and approving Board appointments and approval are those significant to the Group removals and approving policies relating as a whole due to their strategic, financial or to directors remuneration: Board decision process reputational implications.
This schedule is reviewed and updated regularly and includes: approval of terms of reference and Decisions made by the Board membership of Board committees: approval of the annual report, interim on policies and strategy statement and the quarterly interim approval of the division of responsibility management statements: between the Chairman and Chief Executive: maintenance of a system of internal control appointment of the auditors and Presentation from the and risk management: determination of the audit fee: executive directors strategic acquisitions by the Group: approval of all circulars, prospectuses and other documents issued to shareholders major portfolio capital allocation decisions, governed by the FSAs Listing Rules, being those in excess of 1.5m per investment: Process of review and Disclosure Rules or Transparency Rules or challenge by the Board the entry into by the Group of strategic the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers: partnerships and collaborations with major changes in employee share universities and other research institutions: schemes: and major disposals from the Groups portfolio: Executive directors are empowered litigation.
to implement decisions approval of and monitoring of the Groups strategic plans: Business review Corporate governance Financial statements About IP Group 34 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Corporate Governance continued The Board continued in compliance with provision B.
1.2 of the Diversity Role and responsibilities of the Board continued Code throughout the twelve months to The Board is committed to a culture that The Board delegates specic responsibilities 31 December 2012.
As the Company moved attracts and retains talented people to to certain committees that assist the Board into the FTSE350 during the twelve months deliver outstanding performance and further in carrying out its functions and ensure to 31 December 2012, the requirements of enhance the success of the Company.
In that independent oversight of internal control the provisions of B.
1.2 of the Code to ensure culture, diversity across a range of criteria and risk management.
The three principal that at least half of the Board, excluding is valued, primarily in relation to skills, Board committees Audit, Remuneration and the Chairman, should comprise independent knowledge and experience and also in other Nomination play an essential role in supporting non-executive directors will apply to the criteria such as gender and ethnicity.
The the Board in fullling its responsibilities and Company for the forthcoming year.
Accordingly, Company will give careful consideration to ensuring that the highest standards of corporate the Nomination Committee will keep the fact issues of overall board balance and diversity governance are maintained throughout the that this requirement is not currently satisfied in making new appointments to the Board Group.
Each committee has its own terms of under review as part of its ongoing work and and, in identifying suitable candidates, the reference which set out the specic matters succession planning during 2013, including in Nomination Committee will seek candidates for which delegated authority has been given any recommendations which may be made by from a range of backgrounds, with the final by the Board.
These are available on request it for the appointment of a new non-executive decision being based on merit against from the Company Secretary or are available director to replace the vacancy which will be objective criteria.
The Company has one at the Corporate Governance section of the left by Professor Graham Richards, who will female director on its Board, being the Groups website at www.
be retiring from the Board at the Companys Chief Operating officer, and will aim to forthcoming AGM.
maintain female representation on the The Remuneration Committee and the Board at least at this current level and give Nomination Committee are currently reviewing The Companys Articles, adopted at the due consideration to increasing the level their own terms of reference with a view Companys 2010 Annual General Meeting, if appropriate candidates are available when to recommending to the full Board the require all directors to submit themselves board vacancies arise.
In addition, as part approval of revised terms of reference for for re-election by the shareholders at the of the review of the Nomination Committees adoption which are fully compliant with the Companys Annual General Meeting following terms of reference referred to above, it has provisions of the Code and which reect the their first appointment and thereafter at each been agreed that one of the revisions to the recommendations arising from the external Annual General Meeting in respect of which terms will be to include a requirement for the evaluation process undergone by the Board they have held ofce for the two preceding Committee to consider diversity, including and its committees in early 2013 as detailed Annual General Meetings and did not retire gender, in evaluating the composition of the further below, as appropriate.
Once approved at either of them.
In addition, each director Board and in identifying suitable candidates and adopted by the Board, these revised who has held ofce with the Company for for board appointments.
terms of reference will replace the current a continuous period of nine years or more versions in their entirety and will be available must retire and offer themselves up for Non-executive directors from the Company Secretary or on the re-election at every Annual General Meeting.
The non-executive directors provide a wide Groups website as detailed above.
range of skills and experience to the Group.
Notwithstanding the requirements of the They bring their own senior level of experience Board size and composition Articles and whilst not currently required under in each of their own elds, robust opinions As at 31 December 2012, there were ten the Code by reason of the Company being and an independent judgement on issues Directors on the Board: the Chairman, five a smaller company, the Company adopted of strategy, performance, risk and people executive directors and four non-executive the principle of annual re-election by its through their contribution and constructive directors.
The biographies of all of the shareholders of the full Board with effect challenge at Board and committee meetings.
directors are provided on pages 30 and 31. from its 2011 Annual General Meeting.
The Code sets out the circumstances that The Companys policy relating to the terms Accordingly, all of the directors will should be relevant to the Board in determining of appointment and the remuneration of offer themselves up for re-election at the whether each non-executive director is both executive and non-executive directors Annual General Meeting of the Company independent.
The Board considers non-executive is detailed in the Directors Remuneration to be held on 14 May 2013 other than director independence on an annual basis Report on pages 42 to 49.
Professor Graham Richards who will be as part of each non-executive directors retiring from the Board at this meeting and, The size and composition of the Board is performance evaluation.
Having undertaken accordingly, will not be offering himself for regularly reviewed by the Board and, in this review and with due regard to provision re-election.
The Board recommends to particular, the Nomination Committee to B.
1.1 of the Code, the Board has concluded shareholders the re-appointment of all ensure there is an appropriate and diverse this year that all of the non-executive directors directors retiring at the meeting and mix of skills and experience on the Board.
are considered by the Board to be independent offering themselves for re-election on the of management and free of any relationship In accordance with the Code, the Company is basis that all independent performance which could materially interfere with the currently deemed to be a smaller company reviews demonstrated that they are all exercise of their independent judgement.
since it has been below the FTSE350 throughout effective directors of the Company and the year immediately prior to the reporting continue to display the appropriate level year.
Accordingly the Company has been of commitment in their respective roles.
Latest news, share price and other investor information can be found at www.
com IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35 Having served on the Board for eleven years, existing portfolio companies in which the The role of the Chief Executive is to lead the including periods as Chairman and Senior relevant non-executive director does not delivery of the strategy and the executive Non-executive Director, and been a valuable already have a holding.
management of the Group and its operating and challenging Board member throughout businesses.
He is responsible, amongst other Non-executive directors are required to this period, Professor Graham Richards has things, for the development and implementation obtain the approval of the Chairman before decided to retire from the Board at the of strategy and processes which enable taking on any further appointments and the Companys 2013 AGM.
the Group to meet the requirements of Chairman requires the approval of the Board shareholders, for delivering the operating In a limited number of cases, non-executive before adding to his commitments.
In all cases, plans and budgets for the Groups businesses, directors have in the past made fide minimis the directors must ensure that their external monitoring business performance and reporting investments in spin-out companies formed appointments do not involve excessive time on these to the Board and for providing the under the Groups university partnerships.
commitment or cause a conict of interest.
appropriate environment to recruit, engage, Such investments were made on arms length The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive retain and develop the personnel needed to terms, on comparable terms to other third Bruce Smith is the Chairman.
The division of deliver the Groups strategy.
party angel investors participating in the responsibilities between the Chairman and the same nancing rounds and always represented Senior Independent Director Chief Executive officer is clearly established, minority participations in the relevant nancing Mike Humphrey was the Senior Independent set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Board does not therefore consider Director throughout 2012.
A key responsibility The Chairman is responsible for the leadership that such legacy personal investments act of the Senior Independent Director is to be and conduct of the Board, its conduct of the in any way to inuence the non-executive available to shareholders in the event that Groups affairs and strategy and in ensuring directors oversight of the Board.
In any they may feel it inappropriate to relay views effective communication with shareholders.
event, all potential conicts of interest are through the Chairman or Chief Executive.
The Chairman facilitates the full and effective disclosed by the directors at the beginning In addition, the Senior Independent Director contribution of non-executive directors at of each Board meeting and the relevant serves as an intermediary between the rest Board and committee meetings, ensures non-executive director may be required of the Board and the Chairman where necessary that they are kept well informed and ensures by the Board to abstain from voting on a and takes the lead when the non-executive a constructive relationship between the particular matter.
Details of these investments directors assess the Chairmans performance executive directors and non-executive are set out in note 24 to the financial and when the appointment of a new chairman directors.
The Chairman also ensures that statements.
The Boards policy throughout is considered.
the membership of the Board is appropriate 2012 and going forward is to prohibit any to the needs of the business and that the new investments by non-executive directors Board committees carry out their duties, in any new portfolio companies and or any including reporting back to the Board.
Responsibilities of the Chief Executive officer Responsibilities of the Chairman The role of the Chief Executive is The Chairman is responsible for the to lead the delivery of the strategy leadership and conduct of the Board.
and the executive management Amongst other things the Chairman: of the Group and its operations.
Oversees the Boards conduct of the He is responsible, amongst other Groups affairs and strategy, and in things, for: ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
Division of responsibilities The development and implementation Facilitates the full and effective contribution of strategy and processes which enable between the Chairman and of non-executive directors at Board and the Group to meet the requirements Chief Executive officer committee meetings.
Ensures that the Board is kept well Delivering the Groups operating plan informed and ensures a constructive and budget.
relationship between the executive Monitoring business performance directors and non-executive directors.
and reporting on this to the Board.
Ensures that the membership of the Providing the appropriate environment Board is appropriate to the needs of the to recruit, engage, retain and develop business and that the Board committees the personnel needed to deliver the carry out their duties, including reporting Groups strategy.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements About IP Group 36 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Corporate Governance continued The Board continued Board structure Board support The Company Secretary is responsible to Board of Directors the Board for ensuring Board procedures are followed, applicable rules and regulations are complied with and that the Board is advised Audit Remuneration Nomination on governance matters and relevant regulatory Committee Committee Committee matters.
All directors have access to the impartial advice and services of the Company Secretary.
There is also an agreed procedure The Audit Committee is The Remuneration Committee The Nomination Committee for directors to take independent professional responsible for overseeing the has responsibility for advising leads the process for advice at the Companys expense.
In accordance Groups financial reporting, the Board on the remuneration Board appointments, with the Companys Articles of Association, internal and external audit, of executive directors and re-election and succession directors have been granted an indemnity internal control and risk setting an overall policy of the directors and management systems, and for remunerating the the Chairman issued by the Company to the extent permitted compliance, whistleblowing Groups employees by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result and fraud policies of their ofce.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage where a director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company Jonathan Brooks Francis Carpenter Bruce Smith Chairman Chairman Chairman has also arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its directors Francis Carpenter Jonathan Brooks Francis Carpenter and ofcers.
Mike Humphrey Mike Humphrey Jonathan Brooks Mike Humphrey Board meetings and decisions The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as on an ad hoc basis as required by Board biographies Committee reports business need.
The Board had seven scheduled Read the Board biographies Read the reports from the Board meetings in 2012.
In addition to these in full on committees on scheduled Board meetings, the Board also p. 3031 p. 4049 had a day together in July 2012 devoted entirely to the Groups strategic objectives, which provided an opportunity for all directors and particularly the non-executive directors to Chief Executive, Chief Financial officer and potential risks involved and proposed executive ensure the Groups strategy is on course, to Company Secretary work together to ensure management action and recommendation.
review the Groups KPIs and to analyse and that the directors receive relevant information challenge its objectives.
The Chairman and The majority of Board meetings are held to enable them to discharge their duties and non-executive directors also met without at the Groups ofces in London, which gives that such information is accurate, timely the presence of the executive directors members of the Groups client service team and clear.
This information includes monthly twice during the year.
the opportunity to formally present to the management accounts containing analysis Board on new spin-out opportunities or The schedule of Board and committee of performance against budget and other meetings each year is determined before early-stage portfolio companies on which forecasts.
Additional information is provided they are working.
This assists the Board in the commencement of that year and all as appropriate or if requested.
At each meeting, directors or, if appropriate, all committee gaining a deeper understanding of the the Board receives information, reports and breadth, stage of development and diversity members are expected to attend each presentations from the Chief Executive, the meeting.
Each member of the Board receives of the Groups portfolio.
The Board also other executive directors and, by invitation, aims to have at least one of its scheduled in advance of each meeting detailed board other members of senior management as meetings or its annual strategy day at either packs, which include an agenda based upon required.
This ensures that all directors are the Companys ofces in Leeds, Newcastle the schedule of matters reserved for its aware of, and are in a position to monitor or Oxford or at the location of one of the approval and appropriate reports and brieng effectively, the overall performance of the Groups partner universities in order to papers.
If a director is unable to attend a Group, its development and implementation encourage further interaction with the Groups meeting due to exceptional circumstances, of strategy and its management of risk.
Meetings between the Chairman he or she will still receive the supporting Any matter requiring a decision by the Board and non-executive directors, both with and papers and will usually discuss any matters is supported by a paper analysing the relevant without the presence of the Chief Executive, he or she wishes to raise with the Chairman aspects of the proposal including costs, benets, are also held as the need arises.
in advance of the meeting.
The Chairman, View the terms of reference for each committee at the Corporate Governance section of the Groups website www.
com Latest news, share price and other investor information can be found at www.
com IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37 Directors conicts of interest Induction, awareness and development development opportunities including those Each director has a statutory duty under A comprehensive induction process is in place relevant to the non-executive directors the Companies Act 2006 the CA 2006 for new directors.
The programme is tailored membership on the Boards committees.
to avoid a situation in which he or she has to the needs of each individual director and Board effectiveness or can have a direct or indirect interest that agreed with him or her so that he or she can and performance evaluation conicts or may potentially conict with the gain a better understanding of the Group The Code recommends that a formal and interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition and its businesses.
This will generally include rigorous evaluation of the effectiveness and to the continuing duty that a director owes an overview of the Group, its businesses, performance of the Board, its committees to the Company to disclose to the Board any functions and strategic aims and site visits and the individual directors is conducted transaction or arrangement under consideration to the Groups ofces including those in Leeds, annually.
Further, the Code requires FTSE350 by the Company in which he is interested.
Newcastle and Oxford and to a number of companies to ensure that this evaluation The Companys Articles of Association permit the Groups portfolio companies, particularly is externally facilitated every three years.
the Board to authorise conicts or potential those within the Groups top ten holdings Whilst the Company is still deemed to be a conicts of interest.
The Board has established by value, which will include meeting with smaller company since it has been below procedures for managing and, where such companies management and a the FTSE350 throughout the year immediately appropriate, authorising any such conicts presentation from them on their businesses.
prior to the reporting year, in line with its or potential conicts of interest.
It is a In order to ensure that directors continue stated intent, the Board appointed an recurring agenda item at all Board meetings to further their understanding of the issues external third-party provider, Deloitte LLP, and this gives the directors the opportunity facing the Group, the Chairman and to facilitate its performance review during to raise any actual of potential conict of non-executive directors are encouraged January February 2013.
Deloitte LLP has interests that they may have on the matters to continue to visit the Groups ofces other no connection with the Group other than to be discussed, or to update the Board on than the main corporate ofce in London, its evaluation of the Board and the provision any change to a previous conict of interest its portfolio companies and its partner of ad hoc remuneration and taxation advice.
In deciding whether to universities.
In addition, at least one of the The evaluation process involved a detailed authorise any conict, the directors must Groups Board meetings or its strategy day online questionnaire completed by each of have regard to their general duties under the will be offsite to facilitate this through 2013 the directors and the Company Secretary, CA 2006 and their overriding obligation to and, as detailed above, the Board is also with each respondent being asked to place act in a way they consider, in good faith, will exposed to the early-stage opportunities a score against a variety of questions and be most likely to promote the Companys in which the Group has invested through being able to make additional comments success.
In addition, the directors are able presentations at Board meetings by relevant where appropriate.
This was followed by to impose limits or conditions when giving members of the Groups staff.
interviews with each respondent either face authorisation to a conict or potential conict to face or by telephone.
Deloitte LLP then of interest if they think this is appropriate.
As a further aspect of their ongoing provided the Board with a written report The authorisation of any conict matter, and development, each director also receives summarising the findings and making various the terms of any authorisation, may be reviewed feedback on his or her performance following recommendations for improvement including, by the Board at any time.
The Board believes the Boards performance evaluation in each amongst other things, an increased focus on that the procedures established to deal with year and, through the Company Secretary, succession planning and the need for a Code conicts of interest are operating effectively.
access is facilitated to relevant training and Board and committee attendance The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees during the year: Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended Alan Aubrey 8 8 Alison Fielding 8 7 Mike Townend 8 8 Greg Smith 8 8 Charles Winward 8 8 Graham Richards 8 8 Bruce Smith 8 8 1 1 Francis Carpenter 8 8 3 3 1 1 7 7 Jonathan Brooks 8 7 3 3 1 1 7 7 Mike Humphrey 8 8 3 3 1 1 7 7 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements About IP Group 38 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Corporate Governance continued The Board continued The Nomination Committee meets as and Induction processes Board effectiveness when required or requested by the Board and and performance evaluation continued met once during 2013 to review the structure, compliant Board structure as described size and composition of the Board, following The programme is tailored to the above.
The report acknowledged that the which it discussed the conclusions with the needs of each individual director Board exhibits a number of positive features Chief Executive and work is ongoing before and agreed with them so they can in terms of skills and behaviours, including a any formal recommendations are to be made gain a better understanding of the good balance of academic and commercial to the full Board.
The attendance by each Group and its businesses.
skills, positive levels of Board engagement member of the Committee is set out on with internal and external stakeholders and page 37. an effective audit committee.
Before selecting new appointees to the Board, In addition, it is intended that Deloitte LLP the Nomination Committee considers the will undertake a second phase of its Board balance, skill, knowledge and independence, On appointment effectiveness review in September October 2013 diversity including gender and experience to, amongst other things, review the progress on the Board to ensure that a suitable balance a presentation by the Chief Executive including an overview of the Group, its made in implementing the recommendations is maintained.
The Nomination Committee from its report and assist the Board in adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent businesses, functions and strategic aims: building a framework for its future internal procedure for the appointment of new directors Board evaluation.
Consideration is always given as site visits to the Groups ofces to whether identied candidates have enough including those in Leeds, Newcastle In addition to the above, the non-executive time available to devote to the role.
When and Oxford and to a number of the directors, led by the Senior Independent searching for appropriate candidates, the Groups portfolio companies: and Director, appraised the Chairmans performance, committee will give consideration to using following which the Senior Independent meetings with portfolio companies an external search company but, given the Director provided feedback to the Chairman.
management teams and receiving in depth skill, knowledge and experience of The performance of the non-executive directors presentations from them on the Groups internal executive search function, and the Chief Executive was reviewed by the their businesses.
IP Exec, may elect to use this function and Chairman and the performance of the other will also consider candidates who are executive directors was reviewed by the proposed by existing Board members.
Chief Executive, in each case following the submission of individual appraisal forms As part of its work through 2013, the from the relevant director.
In addition to Nomination Committee will be specically After appointment the aforementioned annual reviews, the mandated to consider the appointment of a In order to ensure that directors performance of executive directors is new non-executive director to ll the vacancy continue to further their understanding reviewed by the Board on an ongoing which will be left by Professor Graham Richards of the issues facing the Group, the basis, as deemed necessary, in the absence retirement from the Board at the Companys non-executive directors are of the executive director under review.
AGM to be held on 14 May 2013. encouraged to: Committees of the Board Internal control continue to visit the Groups ofces The composition and structure of the three The Board fully recognises the importance other than the main corporate ofce committees of the Board are set out in the of the guidance contained in Internal Control: in London, its portfolio companies and diagram on page 36.
Guidance for Directors on the Code Turnbull.
its partner universities, and at least The Groups internal controls, which were one of the Groups Board Meetings Audit and Remuneration Committees Group-wide, were in place during the whole is held offsite to facilitate this: and Separate reports on the role, composition, of 2012 and were reviewed by the Board and responsibilities and operation of the meet with portfolio companies considered to be effective throughout the management teams and receive Audit Committee and the Remuneration year ended 31 December 2012.
Committee are set out on pages 40 and 41 presentations from them on their businesses.
The Board is responsible for establishing and monitoring internal control systems and for Nomination Committee reviewing the effectiveness of these systems.
The Nomination Committee leads the process The Board views the effective operation of a for Board appointments, re-election and rigorous system of internal control as critical succession of directors and the Chairman.
Ongoing to the success of the Group: however it It is responsible for making recommendations recognises that such systems can provide As a further aspect of their ongoing to the Board concerning the composition only reasonable and not absolute assurance development, each director also and skills of the Board including proposed against material misstatement or loss.
The receives feedback on his or her appointees to the Board, whether to ll any key elements of the Groups internal control performance following the Boards vacancies or to change the number of Board system, all of which have been in place during performance evaluation in each year members.
The Committee is chaired by the financial year and up to the date these and has access to relevant training and Bruce Smith and its other members as at financial statements were approved, are development activities through 31 December 2012 were Francis Carpenter, as follows: the Company Secretary.
Jonathan Brooks and Mike Humphrey, being a majority of independent non-executive directors as prescribed by the Code.
com IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39 Control environment and procedures the Group and in the Boards ability to oversee the Group to incur political expenditure The Group has a clear organisational structure its implementation.
It is the responsibility as dened in Section 365 of CA 2006 not with dened responsibilities and accountabilities.
of the Board as a whole to ensure that a exceeding 50,000 in total at any time from It adopts the highest values surrounding satisfactory dialogue does take place.
2 May 2012 up to the conclusion of the 2013 quality, integrity and ethics, and these values The Boards primary shareholder contact is AGM.
The Board intends to seek renewed are documented and communicated clearly through the Chairman, Chief Executive officer, authority for the Group to incur political throughout the whole organisation.
Chief Investment officer, Chief Financial officer expenditure of not more than 50,000 in and the Chief Operating officer.
The Boards total at the Companys AGM, to be held on Detailed written policies and procedures primary contact with the limited partners and 14 May 2013, which they might otherwise be have been established covering key operating advisory boards of its managed funds is through prohibited from making or incurring under and compliance risk areas.
These are reviewed the Managing Director of Top Technology the terms of CA 2006. and updated at least annually by the Board.
and the Chief Executive officer.
The Senior The Board considers that the controls Independent Director and other directors, Group financial statements have been effective for the year ended as appropriate, make themselves available International Accounting Standard 1 requires 31 December 2012. for contact with major shareholders and other that financial statements present fairly for Identication and evaluation of risks stakeholders in order to understand their issues each financial year the Groups financial The Board actively identies and evaluates and concerns.
Where considered appropriate, position, financial performance and cash ows.
the risks inherent in the business, and ensures major institutional shareholders are consulted This requires the faithful representation of that appropriate controls and procedures are on significant changes to the structure of the the effects of transactions, other events and in place to manage these risks.
Specically, executive directors remuneration, including conditions in accordance with the denitions all decisions relating to strategic partnerships on performance conditions to attach to any and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, and other collaborations and acquisitions variable incentive awards.
income and expenses set out in the International entered into by the Group are reserved for Accounting Standards Boards Framework The Company uses the Annual General Meeting the Boards review and approval.
The Board for the preparation and presentation of as an opportunity to communicate with its formally reviews the performance of the Groups financial statements.
Notice of the Annual General university partnerships and other strategic circumstances, a fair presentation will be Meeting, which will be held at 2.00pm on collaborations and relationships and equity achieved by compliance with all applicable 14 May 2013 at IP Group plc, 24 Cornhill, investments on a quarterly basis, although IFRSs.
A fair presentation also requires the London EC3V 3ND, is enclosed with this performance of specic investments may directors to: report.
In line with the Code, the Notice of be reviewed more frequently if deemed AGM will be sent to shareholders at least consistently select and apply appropriate appropriate.
The Board maintains an up to 20 working days before the meeting.
Details accounting policies: date Register of Risks setting out mitigations of the resolutions and the explanatory notes in place in each case.
present information, including accounting thereto are included with the Notice.
To ensure policies, in a manner that provides Information and financial reporting systems compliance with the Code, the Board proposes relevant, reliable, comparable and The Group evaluates and manages significant separate resolutions for each issue and proxy understandable information: risks associated with the process for preparing forms allow shareholders who are unable to consolidated accounts by having in place attend the AGM to vote for or against or to provide additional disclosures when compliance systems and controls that ensure adequate withhold their vote on each resolution.
The with the specic requirements in IFRSs is accounting records are maintained and results of all proxy voting is published on the insufficient to enable users to understand transactions are recorded accurately and Groups website detailed below after the the impact of particular transactions, other fairly to permit the preparation of financial meeting and at the meeting itself to those events and conditions on the entitys financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
Shareholders who position and financial performance: and Board approves the annual operating budgets attend the AGM will have the opportunity to prepare the accounts on a going concern and each month receives details of actual ask questions and all directors are expected basis unless, having assessed the ability of performance measured against the budget.
to be available to take questions.
the Group to continue as a going concern, The Groups website www.
com management either intends to liquidate the Principal risks and uncertainties is the primary source of information on the entity or to cease trading, or has no realistic The operations of the Group and the Group.
The website includes an overview alternative but to do so.
implementation of its objectives and strategy of the activities of the Group, details of its are subject to a number of key risks and portfolio companies and its key university Going concern uncertainties.
Risks are formally reviewed partnerships and details of all recent Group The directors confirm that they have a by the Board on at least an annual basis and and portfolio announcements.
reasonable expectation that the Group will appropriate procedures are put in place to have adequate resources to continue in monitor and, to the extent possible, mitigate Political expenditure operational existence for the foreseeable these risks.
Were more than one of the risks Although it is the Boards policy not to incur future and accordingly they continue to adopt to occur, the overall impact on the Group may political expenditure or otherwise make cash the going concern basis in preparing the be compounded.
A summary of the key risks contributions to political parties and it has no financial statements.
affecting the Group and the steps taken to intention of changing that policy, the CA 2006 manage these is set out on pages 24 and 25.
ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD is very broadly drafted in this area and the Board is concerned that it may include activities Relations with stakeholders such as funding conferences or supporting The Company is committed to a continuous Bruce Smith Alan Aubrey certain bodies involved in policy review and dialogue with shareholders as it believes that Chairman Chief Executive officer law reform.
Accordingly, at the AGM held it is essential to ensure a greater understanding 4 March 2013 on 2 May 2012, the shareholders passed a of and confidence amongst its shareholders resolution on a precautionary basis to authorise in the medium and longer-term strategy of Business review Corporate governance Financial statements About IP Group
