JLIF Limited Annual Report 2012 GOVERNANCE 31.
Corporate Governance The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to JLIF.
Procedures have been put in place to ensure compliance with the new edition of UK Corporate Governance code which was published in September 2012 and which applies to reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
The company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code, except as set out below.
The Combined Code includes provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive: executive Directors remuneration: and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble to the Combined Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of JLIF, being an externally managed investment company.
The company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
THE BOARD The Board will meet four times a year as a minimum and met 10 times during 2012 and, should the nature of the activity of the Company require it, additional meetings may be scheduled, some at short notice.
Between meetings there is regular contact with the Investment Adviser and the Administrator and the Board requires to be supplied in a timely manner with information by the Investment Adviser, the Company Secretary and other Advisers in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Board will meet four times a year as a minimum and met 10 times during 2012 and, should the nature of the activity of the Company require it, additional meetings may be scheduled, some at short notice.
The Board intends for all Directors to be subject to annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Board intends to consider the tenure of each Director after six years.
The tenure of Directors is expected to be between six and nine years to allow for phased board appointments and retirements.
This process will take account of any changes to the Boards composition arising from the need to fill a casual vacancy.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are available for inspection from the Companys registered office.
Performance and Evaluation The Board has adopted a process to review its performance on a regular basis and such reviews are expected to be carried out internally on an annual basis and through external facilitation every three years.
The Board completed its first evaluation in May 2012.
This annual evaluation of the Board, the Audit Committee and individual Directors took the form of questionnaires and discussion to determine effectiveness and performance in various areas.
In November 2012, the Board engaged Optimus Group Limited Optimus, a Guernsey based independent consultancy, to carry out the first external evaluation.
This involved meeting with the JLIF Board as well as with representatives from JLCM and Heritage International Fund Managers the fund administrator, reviewing key Board documentation, and evaluating Board and committee structures.
Optimus reported its findings at the first scheduled Board meeting in 2013, concluding that the JLIF Board has a high standard of Corporate Governance and is compliant with the Codes being the FRC UK Corporate Governance Code and the Association of Investment Companies Code.
Duties and Responsibilities The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management of the Company.
The Board has adopted a set of reserved powers which set out the particular duties of the Board.
Such reserved powers include decisions relating to the determination of Investment Policy and approval of investments, strategy, capital raising, statutory obligations and public disclosure, financial reporting and entering into any material contracts by the Company.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and Administrator, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that it complies with Guernsey Law and applicable rules and regulations of the Guernsey Financial Services Commission and the London Stock Exchange.
Where necessary, in carrying out their duties, the Directors may seek independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The Company maintains appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of legal action against its Directors on an ongoing basis.
The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and which enable it to ensure that the financial statements comply with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended.
It is the Boards responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment, which extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports.
Corporate Governance CONTINUED Committees of the Board The Board has not deemed it necessary to date to appoint a Nomination, Remuneration or Management Engagement Committees as, being comprised of five non-executive Directors, it considers that such matters may be considered by the whole Board.
However, following an independent review by Optimus, the Board has decided to appoint a Nominations Committee chaired by David MacLellan in 2013.
The Company has established an Audit Committee, chaired by Mr C Spencer which operates within clearly defined terms of reference and comprises three non-executive Directors: Mr Spencer, Mr MacLellan and Mr Morgan, whose qualifications and experience are noted on pages 6 and 7.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year at times appropriate to the financial reporting calendar.
The duties of the Audit Committee in discharging its responsibilities include reviewing the Annual Report and Financial Statements: the Interim Report and Financial Statements: the system of internal controls: and the terms of appointment of the Auditor, together with their remuneration.
It is also the forum through which the Auditor reports to the Board.
The Audit Committee also reviews the objectivity of the Auditor along with the terms under which the external Auditor is engaged to perform non-audit services.
Provisions in place to maintain the independence and objectivity of the Auditor include the requirement to replace the lead audit partner every five years, and restrictions on the delivery of non-audit services to the Company with such services and the terms under which these services are to be provided considered by the Audit Committee or a case by case basis.
Notwithstanding such services the Audit Committee considers Deloitte LLP to be independent of the Company and that the provision of such non-audit service is not a threat to the objectivity and independence of the conduct of the audit.
The Audit Committee, having reviewed the performance of the Auditor, has recommended to the Board that the Auditor be proposed for re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Meeting attendance Scheduled Board Meeting Audit Committee max 4 max 3 Paul Lester 4 n a David MacLellan 4 3 Guido Van Berkel 4 n a Talmai Morgan 4 3 Christopher Spencer 4 3 A total of six other unscheduled Board meetings and four other unscheduled Committee meetings were held during the year for specific purposes which were attended by some but not all of the Directors.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND FINANCIAL REPORTING The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and the Board has, therefore, established a set of ongoing processes designed to meet the particular needs of the Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed.
These processes have been in place for the year ended 31 December 2012 and up until the date of this Report.
The process is based on a risk-based approach to internal control through a matrix which identifies the key functions carried out by the Investment Adviser and other key service providers, the various activities undertaken within those functions, the risks associated with each activity and the controls employed to minimise those risks.
A residual risk rating is then applied.
A regular report is provided to the Board highlighting material changes to risk ratings and then a formal review of these procedures is carried out by the Audit Committee on an annual basis.
By their nature, these procedures will provide a reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
At each Board meeting, the Board also monitors the Groups investment performance and activities since the last Board meeting to ensure that the Investment Adviser and Operator adhere to the agreed Investment Policy and approved investment guidelines.
Furthermore, at each Board meeting, the Board receives reports from the Company Secretary and Administrator in respect of compliance matters and duties performed by them on behalf of the Company.
The Board considers that an internal audit function specific to the Company is unnecessary and that the systems and procedures employed by the Investment Adviser and Operator, including their own internal audit functions, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards the Companys assets, is maintained.
Investment Advisery services are provided to the Company by John Laing Capital Management Limited.
The Board is responsible for setting the overall Investment Policy and monitors the action of the Investment Adviser and Operator at regular Board meetings.
The Board has also delegated administration and company secretarial services to Heritage International Fund Managers Limited but retains accountability for all functions it delegates.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and places great importance on communication with its shareholders.
Senior members of the Investment Adviser make themselves available at all reasonable times to meet with principal shareholders and key sector analysts.
The Chairman and other Directors are also available to meet with shareholders if required.
Reports on the views of shareholders are provided to the Board on a regular basis.
The Board is also kept fully informed of all relevant market commentary on the Company by the Investment Adviser.
All shareholders can address their individual concerns to the Company in writing at its registered address.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company provides a forum for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and the Investment Adviser.
