JLIF Limited Annual Report 2012 GOVERNANCE 33.
Audit Committee Report SUMMARY OF THE ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the non-executive Directors of the Company.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
A copy of the terms of reference is available upon request from the Company Secretary.
The Audit Committee is responsible for: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and unless expressly addressed by the Board itself, the Groups internal control and risk management systems: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval at the Annual General Meeting, on the appointment of the external auditor and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external Auditor: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: reviewing the Groups Annual and Interim Reports and Financial Statements: and developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the external Auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations on the steps to be taken.
COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The members of the Audit Committee are: Christopher Spencer Chairman David MacLellan Talmai Morgan See pages 6 to 7 for biographical details of the current Audit Committee members.
MEETINGS The Audit Committee shall meet not less than three times a year and at such other times as the Audit Committee Chairman shall require.
Any member of the Audit Committee may request that a meeting be convened by the Secretary of the Audit Committee.
The external Auditor may request that a meeting be convened if it is deemed necessary.
Other Directors and third parties may be invited by the Audit Committee to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Audit Committee Chairman shall attend each Annual General Meeting of the Company and shall be prepared to respond to any shareholder questions on the Audit Committees activities.
INTERNAL AUDIT The Audit Committee shall consider at least once a year whether or not there is a need for an internal audit function.
Currently, the Audit Committee does not consider there to be a need for an internal audit function at the Investment Group level.
However, internal audits of the underlying PPP projects are performed periodically by the Investment Adviser who will report findings to the Audit Committee.
Audit Committee Report CONTINUED OVERVIEW The Audit Committee met on three occasions during the period 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012.
Matters considered at these meetings included but were not limited to: reviewing of the September 2012 Prospectus and all such other documents in connection with the issue and acquisition: reviewing of circular and scrip election forms for both dividends paid during the year: recommending to the Board, the signing of the certificate of solvency required pursuant to section 304 of The Companies Guernsey Law 2008: reviewing and approving the allotment of Placing Shares to prospective shareholders relating to the April 2012 tap issue: considering the risk register of the Company: considering and agreeing the terms of reference of the Audit Committee for approval by the Board: reviewing of the proposed accounting policies and format of the Financial Statements: reviewing of the audit plan and timetable for the preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements: and reviewing of the 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
As a result of its work during the period, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the external auditor is re-appointed.
APPROVAL On behalf of the Audit Committee Christopher Spencer Chairman of the Audit Committee 18 March 2013
