Directors Report continued the NAV of the remaining shares and helps to control the The Articles of Association showing all the changes proposed to discount and its volatility.
Resolution 12 gives the Company be made to the existing Articles of Association are available for authority to buy back its own issued shares in the market as inspection both at the registered office of the Company from the permitted by the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The authority date of this document until the conclusion of the Annual General limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a Meeting and at the location of the Annual General Meeting from maximum of 7,568,689 shares representing approximately 15 minutes before the start of that meeting until its conclusion.
14.99% of the Companys issued shares as at 15th March 2013 The full text of the proposed amendments are set out in the being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 63. this document.
The authority also sets minimum and maximum prices.
Recommendation If resolution 12 is passed at the Annual General Meeting, shares The Board considers that resolutions 10 to 14 are likely to repurchased might not be cancelled but rather held as Treasury promote the success of the Company and are in the best shares.
The Company does not have authority to re-issue shares interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The from Treasury at a discount to NAV, therefore any reissue of Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of shares from Treasury would be at a premium to the prevailing the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own NAV.
The Company has no shares in Treasury at present.
beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 50,923 As at 15th March 2013 being the latest practicable date prior to shares representing approximately 0.1% of the existing issued the publication of this document, there were no warrants or share capital of the Company.
options over shares in the capital of the Company.
Corporate Governance Statement The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 62 and 63.
Repurchases will be made at the discretion Compliance of the Board and will only be made in the market at prices below the prevailing NAV per share, thereby enhancing the NAV of the The Company is committed to high standards of corporate remaining shares as and when market conditions are governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of appropriate.
Directors Responsibilities on page 36, indicates how the Company has applied the principles of good governance of the iii Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association to permit UK Corporate Governance Code and the AICs Code of the distribution of capital profits resolution 13 Corporate Governance the AIC Code, which complements the The Companies Act 2006 Amendment of Part 23 Investment UK Corporate Governance Code and provides a framework of Companies Regulations 2012 removed the requirement that the 1 best practice for investment trusts.
articles of association of an investment company must prohibit the distribution of capital profits.
In line with many other investment The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of companies, the Company proposes to amend its articles of corporate governance and considers that the Company has association in order to allow the flexibility to take advantage of this complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate change in the future.
The proposed amendments therefore reflect Governance Code, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys this change and remove all references to the prohibition of the business, and the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
distribution of capital profits by way of dividend.
The Board currently has no intention of using this power.
Role of the Board iv Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association to amend A management agreement between the Company and JPMAM the maximum aggregate Directors fees payable resolution 14 sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
This The Companys Articles of Association currently state that the includes management of the Companys assets within the remuneration of the Directors should not exceed in aggregate guidelines established by the Board from time to time and the the sum of 175,000 per annum.
The Company proposes to provision of accounting, company secretarial, administration amend its Articles of Association by increasing the maximum and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved aggregate sum to 225,000 per annum.
1 Copies of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AIC Code may be found on the respective organisations websites: www.
co. uk 30 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved reserved to the Board for decision has been approved.
This through discussion with the Chairman.
James Fox will retire at includes determination and monitoring of the Companys the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will investment objectives and policy and its future strategic be succeeded as Audit Committee Chairman by Simon Bragg.
direction, gearing policy, management of the capital structure, appointment and removal of third party service providers, Tenure review of key investment and financial data and the Companys Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and Association, it is required that they be reappointed by additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Subject to the performance evaluation carried information is provided to the Board to enable it to function out each year, the Board will agree whether it is appropriate for effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their Directors to seek annual reappointment in accordance with responsibilities.
The Board does not believe that length of service in itself necessarily disqualifies The Board has procedures in place to deal with potential a Director from seeking reappointment but, when making a conflicts of interest and, following the introduction of the recommendation, the Board will take into account the ongoing Bribery Act 2010, has adopted appropriate procedures requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, including designed to prevent bribery.
It confirms that the procedures the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
have operated effectively during the year under review.
The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and at the available for inspection on request at the Companys registered Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access that every office and at the Annual General Meeting.
Director has to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, which is responsible to the Board for During the year Simon Bragg and Sir Alan Collins were ensuring adherence to Board procedures and compliance with appointed to the Board on 4th May 2012.
Hamish Buchan applicable rules and regulations.
retired as Chairman and Director at the Annual General Meeting held on 4th May 2012 and Sarah Bates became his Board Composition successor.
The Board consists of six non-executive Directors, chaired by Induction and Training Sarah Bates, all of whom are considered to be independent of the Companys Manager.
The Board will consist of five On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide Directors following the retirement of James Fox at the all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter, regular forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors have a briefings are provided on changes in law and regulatory breadth of investment knowledge, business and financial skills requirements that affect the Company and Directors.
Directors and experience relevant to the Companys business and brief are encouraged to attend industry and other seminars covering biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 22 issues and developments relevant to investment trusts.
Regular and 23. reviews of the Directors training needs are carried out by the Board by means of the evaluation process described below.
A review of Board composition and balance is included as part of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of Meetings and Committees which may be found below.
The Board has considered whether a senior independent director should be appointed and has The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to concluded that, as the Board is comprised entirely of committees.
Details of membership of committees are shown non-executive directors, this is unnecessary.
However, the with the Directors profiles on pages 22 and 23.
Chairman of the Audit Committee, James Fox, is available to JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 31 Directors Report continued The table below details the number of Board and Committee The Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there recommendations to the Board as and when required.
were five Board meetings, including a private meeting of the Audit Committee Directors to evaluate the Manager.
In addition, two Audit The Audit Committee, chaired by James Fox and comprising Committee meetings and a meeting of the Nomination & five of the Directors, meets at least twice each year.
Sarah Remuneration Committee were held.
Bates, as Chairman of the Company, is not a member of the Nomination & Committee and attends by invitation only.
The members of the Audit Remuneration Committee consider that they have the requisite skills and Board Committee Committee experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
Meetings Meetings Meetings Director Attended Attended Attended The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and 1 Sarah Bates 5 2 1 the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Kate Bolsover 4 2 1 Code and the AIC Code.
It reviews the terms of the 2 1 management agreement, examines the effectiveness of the Hamish Buchan 31 1 3 Companys internal control systems and receives information Simon Bragg 21 3 from the Managers compliance department.
It also reviews the Sir Alan Collins 21 scope and results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness James Fox 5 2 1 and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, James Williams 5 2 1 including the provision of non-audit services and the period of 1 Attended by invitation of the Committee.
service held by the senior statutory auditor.
Representatives of 2 Retired from the Board on 4th May 2012. the Companys auditor attend the Committee meeting at which 3 Appointed to the Board on 4th May 2012. the draft annual report and accounts are considered.
There are no contractual restrictions on the choice of the Committee as to Board Committees the external auditor.
The current tenure of the external auditor Nomination & Remuneration Committee dates from 10th August 2006.
Any decision to open the The Nomination & Remuneration Committee, chaired by Sarah external audit to tender is taken on the recommendation of the Bates, consists of all of the Directors and meets at least Audit Committee.
The Directors statement on the Companys annually to ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance system of internal control is set out below.
of skills and experience to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose suitable candidates for appointment when Terms of Reference necessary.
The appointment process takes account of the Both the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and the benefits of diversity, including gender.
In relation to the Audit Committee have written terms of reference which define appointment of Simon Bragg and Sir Alan Collins an external clearly their respective responsibilities, copies of which are recruitment consultant was engaged by the Company.
available on the Companys website and for inspection on The Committee conducts an annual performance evaluation of request at the Companys registered office and at the Annual the Board, its committees and individual Directors to ensure General Meeting.
that all Directors have devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of the Board and its Committees.
The Relations with Shareholders evaluation of the Board considers the balance of experience, The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the skills, independence, corporate knowledge, its diversity, Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full including gender, and how it works together.
Questionnaires, understanding of the Companys activities and performance drawn up by the Board, with the assistance of JPMAM and a and reports formally to shareholders four times a year by way firm of independent consultants, are completed by each of the Annual Report and Accounts, the Half Year Report and Director.
The responses are collated and then discussed by the two Interim Management Statements.
This is supplemented by Committee.
The evaluation of all Directors is led by the the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of Chairman who also meets individually with each Director.
The the net asset value of the Companys shares.
Audit Committee Chairman leads the evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
32 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the by the Company see Principal Risks on pages 26 and 27.
The Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in Company does not have an internal audit function of its own, person to meet with shareholders and answer questions.
In but relies on the internal audit department of JPMAM which addition, a presentation is given by the investment manager reports any material failings or weaknesses.
This arrangement who reviews the Companys performance.
During the year the is kept under annual review.
The key elements designed to investment management team, JPMAM and the Companys provide effective internal control are as follows: brokers hold regular discussions with larger shareholders.
The Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by Directors are made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman the Board of key investment and financial data, including and Directors make themselves available as and when required management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of to address shareholder queries.
The Directors may be transactions and performance comparisons.
contacted through the Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 69.
Management Agreement Evaluation and appointment of a manager and custodian regulated by the Financial Services The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in Authority FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of a written agreement.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit Management Systems The Managers system of internal questions via the Companys website or write to the Company control includes organisational agreements which clearly Secretary at the address shown on page 69. define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be Compliance department which regularly monitors compliance published on the Company website shortly after the Annual with FSA rules and reports to the Board.
Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the Internal Control Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at least annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the system of internal control and to report to shareholders that Companys system of internal control by monitoring the they have done so.
This encompasses a review of all controls, operation of the key operating controls of the Manager and which the Board has identified to include business, financial, its associates as follows: operational, compliance and risk management.
the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the terms The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of of the management agreement and receives regular internal control which is designed to safeguard the Companys reports from JPMAMs Compliance department: assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that the Board reviews a report, which is also independently financial information used within the business, or published, reviewed, on the internal controls and the operations of is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank: and manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, the Directors review every six months an independent but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material report on the internal controls and the operations of misstatement or loss.
Since investment management, custody of assets and all By means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms administrative services are provided to the Company by that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal of internal control for the year ended 31st December 2012, and control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided by to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
JPMAM and its associates, including the operating controls During the course of its review of the system of internal control, established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or business objectives.
There is an ongoing process for weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 33 Directors Report continued JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its investments and supports Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has its principles as best practice.
We believe that regular contact with the not been considered appropriate.
companies in which we invest is central to our investment process and we also recognise the importance of being an active owner on behalf of our Corporate Governance, Voting Policy and Corporate Social clients.
Responsibility Social & Environmental The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statements on manner.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic interests corporate governance, voting policy and social and of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, non-financial issues such environmental issues, which has been reviewed and noted by as social and environmental factors have the potential to impact the the Board: share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists within Corporate Governance JPMAMs environmental, social and governance ESG team are tasked JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our investment with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and process.
As part of our commitment to delivering superior investment environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
This analysis performance to our clients, we expect and encourage the companies in is then used to identify outliers which require further engagement.
which we invest to demonstrate the highest standards of corporate JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Responsible governance and best business practice.
We examine the share structure Investment, which commits participants to six principles, with the aim of and voting structure of the companies in which we invest, as well as the incorporating ESG criteria into their processes when making stock board balance, oversight functions and remuneration policy.
These selection decisions and promoting ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach analyses then form the basis of our proxy voting and engagement to how we implement the principles is available on request.
a signatory to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
JPMorgan Chase is a Proxy Voting signatory to the Equator Principles on managing social and JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it would environmental risk in project finance.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what Guidelines are available on request from the Company will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable, Secretary or can be downloaded from JPMAMs website: we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are http: www.
 CorporateGovernance, which also Stewardship Engagement sets out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients as Stewardship Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the introduction of the FRC and its detailed voting record.
Stewardship Code, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under the Code, managers should: By order of the Board Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, stewardship responsibilities to their clients: Secretary disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: monitor their investee companies: 18th March 2013 establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate: have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting record: and report to clients.
34 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
