be made in the market at prices below the prevailing NAV per Anatole Kaletsky is a founding partner and chief economist of share, thereby enhancing the NAV of the remaining shares as Gavekal Research, whose clients include JPMorgan.
The Board and when market conditions are appropriate.
does not believe this connection influences Mr Kaletskys independence as a Director of the Company.
Recommendation The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and The Board considers that resolutions 10 to 12 are likely to additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely promote the success of the Company and are in the best information is provided to the Board to enable it to function interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour responsibilities.
of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent own beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
25,484 Ordinary shares representing approximately 0.02% This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the of the voting rights of the Company.
advice and services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures Corporate Governance are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are Compliance complied with.
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate Board Composition governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of The Board, chaired by Alan Saunders, consists of five Directors Responsibilities on page 29, indicates how the non-executive Directors, all of whom are regarded by the Company has applied the principles of good governance of the Board as independent of the Companys Manager, including Financial Reporting Council UK Corporate Governance Code the Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth of investment the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AICs Code of knowledge, business and financial skills and experience Corporate Governance, the AIC Code, which complements relevant to the Companys business and brief biographical the UK Corporate Governance Code and provides a framework details of each Director are set out on pages 15 and 16. of best practice for investment trusts.
A review of Board composition and balance is included as part The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of of corporate governance and considers that the Company has which may be found below.
The Senior Independent Director complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate leads the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and is Governance Code and of the AIC Code throughout the year available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be under review.
resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
Role of the Board A management agreement between the Company and JPMAM Tenure sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual This includes management of the Companys assets and the General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of provision of accounting, company secretarial, administrative Association, it is required that they be appointed by and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved shareholders.
Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run for for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters a term of three years.
Subject to the performance evaluation reserved to the Board for decision has been approved.
This carried out each year, the Board will agree whether it is includes determination and monitoring of the Companys appropriate for the Director to seek an additional term.
investment objectives and policy and its future strategic The Board does not believe that length of service in itself direction, gearing policy, management of the capital structure, necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking reappointment appointment and removal of third party service providers, but, when making a recommendation, the Board will take into review of key investment and financial data and the Companys account the ongoing requirements of the UK Corporate corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
Governance Code, including the need to refresh the Board and The Board has procedures in place to deal with potential its Committees.
The Board has adopted corporate governance conflicts of interest and, following the introduction of The best practice and all Directors stand for annual reappointment.
Bribery Act 2010, has adopted appropriate procedures The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set designed to prevent bribery.
It confirms that the procedures out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are have operated effectively during the year under review.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 23 Directors Report continued available for inspection on request at the Companys registered evaluation of the Board considers the balance of experience, office and at the Annual General Meeting.
skills, independence, corporate knowledge, its diversity, including gender, and how it works together.
Questionnaires, Induction and Training drawn up by the Board, with the assistance of JPMAM and a On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary firm of independent consultants, are completed by each provide all Directors with induction training.
The responses are collated and then discussed by the regular briefings are provided on changes in law and Committee.
The evaluation of individual Directors is led by the regulatory requirements that affect the Company and the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director leads the Directors.
Directors are encouraged to attend industry and evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
other seminars covering issues and developments relevant to investment trust companies.
Regular reviews of the Directors Remuneration Committee training needs are carried out by the Chairman by means of The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Alan Saunders, the evaluation process described below.
consists of all of the Directors and meets annually to review the levels of remuneration of the Chairman, the Chairman of the Meetings and Committees Audit Committee, the Senior Independent Director and other Directors.
This takes into account the level of fees paid to the The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to directors of the Companys peers and within the investment committees.
All Directors are members of the committees, trust industry generally to ensure that high quality people are with the exception of the Chairman who attends the Audit attracted and retained.
Recommendations are made to the Committee by invitation.
Board as and when appropriate.
The table below details the number of Board and Committee Audit Committee meetings attended by each Director.
During the year, there The Audit Committee, chaired by Nigel Kenny and whose were five Board meetings, two Audit Committee meetings, a membership is set out on pages 15 and 16, meets at least twice Management Engagement Committee meeting, a Nomination each year.
The members of the Audit Committee consider that Committee meeting and a Remuneration Committee meeting.
they have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
At least one member of the Management Audit Engagement Remuneration Nomination Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the Director Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance David Gamble 5 2 1 1 1 Code.
It reviews the terms of the management agreement and Anatole Kaletsky 5 2 1 1 1 examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control Nigel Kenny 4 2 1 1 1 systems, receives information from the Managers Compliance Percy Mistry 5 2 1 1 1 department and also reviews the scope and results of the 1 Alan Saunders 52 1 1 1 external audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence 1 Ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 30th October 2009.
Mr Saunders now and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee attends by invitation.
has reviewed the independence and objectivity of the auditors and is satisfied that the auditors are independent.
The Audit Board Committees Committee also has the primary responsibility for making Nomination Committee recommendations to the Board on the reappointment and the The Nomination Committee, chaired by Alan Saunders, consists removal of external auditors.
Representatives of the Companys of all of the Directors and meets at least annually to ensure that auditors attend the Audit Committee meeting at which the the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience draft annual report and accounts are considered.
Having to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose reviewed the performance of the external auditors, the suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
The Committee considered it appropriate to recommend their appointment process takes account of the benefits of diversity, reappointment.
The Board supported this recommendation including gender.
which will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board reviews and approves any The Committee conducts an annual performance evaluation of non-audit services provided by the independent auditors and the Board, its committees and individual Directors to ensure assesses the impact of any non-audit work on the ability of the that all Directors have devoted sufficient time and contributed auditor to remain independent.
The only non-audit work adequately to the work of the Board and its Committees.
The 24 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 carried out by the auditors this year was in relation to their Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be subsidiary companys work on the Companys tax return in published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual Pakistan.
The Board has resolved that such non-audit work General Meeting.
does not impact on the independence of the auditors.
Details of the auditors fees paid for audit and non-audit services are Section 992 Companies Act 2006 disclosed in note 5 on page 38.
The following disclosures are made in accordance with The Directors statement on the Companys system of internal Section 992 Companies Act 2006. control is set out below.
Capital Structure Management Engagement Committee The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside The Management Engagement Committee, chaired by Alan front cover of this report.
Saunders, consists of all of the Directors and meets annually to Voting Rights in the Companys shares review the performance of the Manager.
Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the Terms of Reference date of this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of Annual The Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Management General Meeting on page 58.
Engagement Committees all have written terms of reference Environmental Matters, Social and Community Issues which define clearly their respective responsibilities, copies Information on environmental matters, social and community of which are available on the Companys website and for issues is set out on page 27.
The Company has no employees.
inspection on request at the Companys registered office and at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights At the year end, the following had declared a notifiable interest Relations with Shareholders in the Companys voting rights: Ordinary The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Shareholders shares% Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and performance Lazard Asset Management LLC 26,300,584 21.6 and reports formally to shareholders quarterly each year by City of London Investment way of the annual report and accounts, the half year report and Management Company 14,798,910 12.1 two interim management statements.
This is supplemented by 1 Chase Nominees Limited 10,291,455 8.4 the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of Royal Skandia 6,089,708 5.0 the net asset value of the Companys shares.
Sarasin & Partners LLP 5,232,073 4.3 All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged JPMorgan Asset Management to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the Holdings Inc. 4,697,689 3.9 Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in person to meet shareholders and answer their questions.
1 Held on behalf of JPMAM Investment Account, ISA and SIPP participants.
In addition, a presentation is given by the Investment Manager On 25th September 2012 City of London Investment who reviews the Companys performance.
The Companys Management Company disclosed that their holding was brokers, the Investment Manager and JPMAM hold regular 14,616,028 11.99%.
No further changes to these holdings had discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are made been notified as at the date of this report.
fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make themselves available as and when required to address The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and the Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 65. powers to issue or repurchase the Companys shares are contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in the Companies Act 2006. time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit in the Company: no special rights with regard to control questions via the Companys website or write to the Company attached to securities: no agreements between holders of Secretary at the address shown on page 65.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 25 Directors Report continued securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and no agreements which the Company is party to that affect its custodian regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for agreement.
Management Systems The Managers system of risk management and internal control includes organisational Risk Management and Internal Control agreements which clearly define the lines of responsibility, The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
These least annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys are monitored by JPMAMs Compliance department which system of risk management and internal control and to report regularly monitors compliance with FSA rules.
to shareholders that they have done so.
This encompasses a Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the review of all controls, which the Board has identified as Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the including business, financial, operational, compliance and risk Board.
The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of risk keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system management and internal control which is designed to of risk management and internal control by monitoring the safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting operation of the key operating controls of the Manager and its records and ensure that financial information used within the associates as follows: business, or published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of reviews the terms of the management agreement and failure to achieve business objectives and therefore can only receives regular reports from JPMAMs Compliance provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, department: material misstatement or loss.
reviews reports on the internal controls and the operations Since investment management, custody of assets and all of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself administrative services are provided to the Company by independently reviewed: and JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of risk reviews every six months an independent report on the risk management and internal control mainly comprises management and internal controls and the operations of monitoring the services provided by JPMAM and its associates, JPMAM.
including the operating controls established by them, to ensure that they meet the Companys business objectives.
There is an By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the significant risks faced by the Company see Principal Risks on Companys system of risk management and internal control for pages 19 to 20.
This process has been in place for the year the year ended 30th June 2012 and to the date of approval of under review and up to the date of the approval of the annual this Annual Report and Accounts.
report and accounts, and it accords with the Turnbull guidance.
During the course of its review of the system of risk The Company does not have an internal audit function of its management and internal control, the Board has not identified own, but relies on the internal audit department of JPMAM.
or been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has This arrangement is kept under review.
The key elements designed to provide effective internal control are as follows: Corporate Governance and Voting Policy Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
the Board of key investment and financial data, including The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statements on management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of corporate governance, voting policy and social and transactions and performance comparisons.
environmental issues, which has been reviewed and noted by the Board.
26 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance JPMAMs environmental, social and governance ESG team are tasked JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our investment with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and process.
As part of our commitment to delivering superior investment environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
performance to our clients, we expect and encourage the companies in JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Responsible which we invest to demonstrate the highest standards of corporate Investment, which commits participants to six principles, with the aim of governance and best business practice.
We examine the share structure incorporating ESG criteria into their processes when making stock and voting structure of the companies in which we invest, as well as the selection decisions and promoting ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach board balance, oversight functions and remuneration policy.
These to how we implement the principles is available on request.
JPMAM is also analyses then form the basis of our proxy voting and engagement a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
JPMorgan Chase is a signatory activity.
to the Equator Principles on managing social and environmental risk in Proxy Voting project finance.
JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it would JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and available on request from the Company Secretary or can be downloaded diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what from JPMAMs website: www.
co. uk will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable, institutional  CorporateGovernance, which we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are also sets out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC Stewardship invested.
Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest and its detailed voting Stewardship Engagement record.
JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients as a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the introduction of the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional By order of the Board shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under the Code, Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of managers should: JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, Company Secretary publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their 5th October 2012 stewardship responsibilities to their clients: disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: monitor their investee companies: establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate: have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting record: and report to clients.
JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK investments and supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
We believe that regular contact with the companies in which we invest is central to our investment process and we also recognise the importance of being an active owner on behalf of our clients.
Social & Environmental JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible manner.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic interests of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, non-financial issues such as social and environmental factors have the potential to impact the share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists within JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
