Directors and governance Corporate governance Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the corporate governance report on behalf of the Board.
The corporate governance landscape continues to evolve and the financial crisis in 2008 09 triggered a widespread reappraisal of corporate governance systems.
Following the Walker report issued last year recommending changes to the governance of financial institutions, the Financial Reporting Council FRC produced an updated code relating to governance in other listed companies.
The new UK Corporate Governance Code the Code came into force for accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010 and we comply with the Code from this years reporting period although we implemented some provisions early, in particular those relating to the annual re-election of directors.
Significant changes brought in by the Code include an emphasis on the role of the Chairman, his responsibility for leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness: the annual re-election of directors and an emphasis on the diversity of the Board, particularly in relation to gender diversity: the time commitment required from directors: the requirement for external evaluation of boards at least every three years: and an emphasis on the responsibility of boards for identifying and monitoring risk.
Following the Davies Report recommendation that FTSE 350 companies should set out the percentage of women they aim to have on their Boards in 2013 and 2015, my predecessor, John Brown, issued a statement at last years AGM stating that we already meet the recommended target albeit for FTSE 100 boards of 25% of the members of the Board being women.
We will continue to monitor the position to ensure we have an appropriately diverse board, not just by way of gender but also in a wider sense, to ensure the Board continues to be fit for purpose.
The Board believes that it is important to maintain an open dialogue with our shareholders.
During the year Louise Makin, our CEO, held over 30 meetings with institutional investors and Rolf Soderstrom, our CFO, met with over 20 institutional investors.
In addition Louise Makin gave presentations at a number of conferences which were attended by existing and potential shareholders as well as industry representatives.
My predecessor, John Brown and I both believe that it is important for the Chairman to meet investors, along with other members of the Board, and so have always sought to make ourselves available to meet any who wish to see us.
At the Companys AGM on 17 July, all directors will attend and be available to meet investors as usual for face-to-face discussions.
The following pages explain in detail how the Company applies the Code in its day-to-day operations.
Garry Watts Chairman 43 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors and governance Corporate governance The Board believes it is important that the Company does not just follow the new Code as a mechanical exercise but that it actively embeds an appropriate governance culture throughout the organisation in order to continually improve standards and build a successful company.
This report explains how the Company applies the principles of the Code.
More information on the Code can be found on the FRC website, www.
Board composition, responsibilities and balance Board composition The Board comprises six non-executive directors, including the Chairman, and two executive directors.
The Board was chaired by John Brown until his resignation on 31December 2011.
He was succeeded by Garry Watts, who joined the Board as non-executive Chairman on 1 January 2012.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring the effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
The Chief Executive Officer, Louise Makin, is primarily responsible for the running of the Group.
Rolf Soderstrom, Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for all financial reporting, tax and financial control aspects of the Group, providing support to the CEO and the wider business activities of the Group.
Giles Kerr has been the Companys Senior Independent Director SID since July 2008.
His principal role as SID is to support the Chairman in his role: to work with the Chairman and other directors to resolve any significant issues that may arise: to lead non-executive directors in the oversight of the Chairman and to ensure there is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
He is also available to shareholders to express concerns which the normal channels have failed to resolve or which would be inappropriate.
The names and brief biographical details of all the directors are set out on pages 36 to 37.
The table below details the composition of the Board, its Committees, together with their attendance at meetings since the last annual report and the Companys assessment of the independence of the directors.
Following the appointment of Garry Watts, Committee membership was reviewed and various changes were made, as shown in the table below.
Committee Committee Board and committee memberships memberships Board Nomination Audit Remuneration composition and attendance to 31 December 2011 from 1 January 2012 Independent meetings Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings 9 3 3 5 Executive directors Louise Makin CEO No 9 9 N A N A N A Rolf Soderstrom CFO No 8 9 N A N A N A Non-executive directors 1 4 3 John Brown Nom N A No 4 5 0 2 N A N A 2 4 3 Garry Watts N A Nom No 4 4 1 1 N A N A Peter Chambr Aud, Rem, Nom Aud, Nom Yes 9 9 3 3 3 3 2 2 4 4 Giles Kerr Aud, Rem, Nom Aud, Rem, Nom Yes 9 9 3 3 3 3 5 5 Melanie Lee Rem Rem Yes 9 9 N A N A 3 5 4 4 Ian Much Aud, Rem Aud, Rem, Nom Yes 9 9 2 2 3 3 5 5 James OShea Rem, Nom Nom Yes 9 9 2 3 N A 2 2 1 John Brown resigned from the Board and Nomination Committee with effect from 31 December 2011.
2 Garry Watts joined the Board on 1 January 2012 as Chairman of the Company and Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
3 John Brown and Garry Watts are excluded from the determination of independence by virtue of their role as Chairman of the Company.
5 Following the rescheduling of one of the Remuneration Committee meetings, Melanie Lee was unable to attend due to a pre-existing commitment that could not be changed.
John Brown, Garrry Watts and Rolf Soderstrom did not attend meetings where their own position was being discussed.
James OShea did not attend one meeting of the Nomination Committee, being a selection sub-committee of which he was not a member, being US-based.
6 Directors who are not committee members may attend meetings by invitation.
Details are not included in the table.
7 The external auditor usually attends the Audit Committee meetings and the remuneration advisers usually attend the Remuneration Committee meetings.
8 Table shows, for each director, number of meetings attended number of meetings eligible to attend.
44 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors and governance The Board applies a rigorous process in order to satisfy itself that its non-executive directors remain independent.
The Board reviews the independence of the nonexecutive directors every year, using its own judgement when applying the criteria in the Code.
Having undertaken this review, the Board confirms that all the nonexecutive directors are considered to be independent in character and judgement.
In line with the recommendations of the Code, at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, are independent non-executive directors.
Both John Brown and Garry Watts were considered to be independent at the time of their appointment although, in accordance with the Code, they are excluded from the determination of whether at least half the Board are independent non-executive directors thereafter.
Board responsibilities and balance The Board has a number of matters specifically reserved for its decision or approval.
These include the approval of the interim and annual financial statements, the interim management statements and major public announcements, setting strategic direction, budgets and long-term plans.
Other areas include the approval of major investments and disposals, major capital expenditure, decisions relating to major litigation, significant financing, dividend policy and senior executive remuneration and appointments.
The Board as a whole monitors operating performance, the performance of management, succession planning, health, safety and environmental performance and standards of ethical and social behaviour.
It is also responsible for developing robust corporate governance, legal compliance and risk management procedures aimed at safeguarding the Companys reputation and assets and the integrity of its financial information and business conduct.
While the executive and non-executive directors are collectively responsible for the success of the Company and have fiduciary duties towards shareholders, their roles are strictly delineated.
The executive directors have direct responsibility for the business operations of the Company, the non-executive directors have a responsibility to bring independent and objective judgement to Board decisions and the Chairmans primary responsibility is for the effective running of the Board.
The non-executive directors duties include helping to develop the Companys strategy and constructively challenging the executive directors where they consider it appropriate.
Roles and responsibilities The Board The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company and specifically to: Set the Companys strategic objectives.
Ensure the necessary financial and human resources are in place to support strategy.
Determine the significant risks that the Company is willing to take to achieve its strategic aims and ensuring effective risk management controls are in place.
Review management and Company performance.
Monitoring and review of financial reporting.
Ensure the proper discharge of the Companys statutory and other legal and regulatory responsibilities.
45 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors and governance Corporate governance The Chairman The Chairman is responsible for creating conditions for overall Board and individual director effectiveness and for ensuring the following: The Board devotes adequate time to the right agenda issues such as its role in shaping strategy.
Appropriate high-quality information is made available to the Board in a timely manner.
The Board discharges its responsibilities with respect to risk management.
Board Committees are properly structured with appropriate terms of reference.
Necessary relationships of mutual respect and open communication are fostered between the executive and non-executive directors, providing support and advice while respecting the executive responsibility.
Effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director is responsible for: Supporting the Chairmans delivery of objectives, and leading his evaluation.
Working with the Chairman, other directors and shareholders at times of conflict or stress to resolve significant issues.
Executive directors The executive directors are responsible for leading, overseeing and managing the whole business, they are also responsible for: Communicating to the Board their views on business issues to improve the standard of Board discussion and, prior to final decision on an issue, explain in a balanced way any divergence of view in the executive team.
Encouraging the non-executive directors to thoroughly test proposals put forward to the Board in the light of their wider experience.
Providing input to the strategy formulation process to enable an effective and evidence based approach and to ensure that the Board is well informed about all aspects of the business and its operation which bear on its strategy.
Delivering high-quality information to the Board to enable it to monitor the performance of the whole business including the management of risk, and to make critical decisions, e. g. on remuneration and investments.
Directors conflicts of interest To address the effect of Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 directors conflicts of interest, the Companys Articles enable the Board to authorise situations that might give rise to directors conflicts of interest.
Directors complete a declaration form in order to determine whether any actual or potential conflicts need authorisation.
The forms are reviewed annually to ensure that the information provided is up to date and includes any disclosures made during the past year.
At the March 2012 Board meeting all directors were asked to review and make any necessary amendments to their existing declarations.
The Company Secretary has reviewed the latest declarations and has confirmed that no conflicts have arisen.
Board members are reminded at regular intervals to disclose any conflicts should they arise.
All such notifications are kept in a conflicts register maintained by the Company Secretary.
Any director who considers they may have a potential conflict of interest should report this to the Chairman in the first instance, who may consult the Nomination Committee and report their findings to the Board.
46 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors and governance There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Directors have direct access to the advice and the services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The Company arranges appropriate directors and officers liability insurance.
The removal of a director or of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Information and training, performance evaluation and re-election of directors Information and training The directors are sent an agenda and a full set of papers for each item to be discussed, in advance of each Board or Committee meeting.
Additional information is provided as appropriate and senior executives regularly make presentations at Board meetings on the results and strategies in their areas of responsibility.
Board meetings are sometimes held at different office locations enabling non-executive directors an additional opportunity to visit other Company sites.
Upon joining the Company, each director receives a comprehensive induction package, including written information and opportunities to meet key and relevant members of staff.
All directors refresh their knowledge regularly through publications and conferences and through information provided by the Company and its advisers.
Performance evaluation The CEO is responsible for appraising the performance of the CFO.
The Chairman and non-executive directors review the performance of the CEO.
The non-executive directors, led by the Senior Independent Director and following input from the executive directors, normally evaluate the performance of the Chairman each year.
However, as Garry Watts only joined the Company in January 2012 it was considered too early to perform a formal evaluation.
This will take place during the current year.
The Committees also reviewed their performance and reported the results to the Chairman and the Board as a whole.
The non-executive directors meet at least once a year without the executive directors in order to discuss the performance of the executive directors and any concerns over their management of the Companys affairs.
In previous years, the Board has carried out an annual evaluation of its own effectiveness and that of its Committees, both through measuring performance against annual objectives and through an individual appraisal process.
With the requirement introduced by the Code for an external evaluation at least every three years, it was decided to appoint external consultants, SCT Consultants Ltd, to assist with the review.
This was considered a valuable exercise particularly in light of the continued growth of the business.
The process confirmed that the Board provided effective leadership of the Group and proposed a number of recommendations for the coming year, including: To increase the strategic focus and content of Board discussions to contribute to the ongoing transformation of the Group.
To re-evaluate the membership and operation of the Board Committees to streamline activities and allow additional focus where needed.
To enhance the risk management process to ensure sound management controls are in place.
To ensure the information flows from the Board down through the organisation, to give clarity, accountability and oversight of the effective implementation of key decisions.
To focus on the development needs of the organisation as a whole, having regard to the capacity and capabilities needed in order for the organisation to deliver on its existing objectives and future strategic objectives.
To develop a stakeholder management plan which would define the basis of communication and increase Board interaction with all stakeholders.
47 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors and governance Corporate governance Board membership and election of directors The Board reviews its constitution regularly and continues to refresh its members.
John Brown retired from the Board as non-executive Chairman on 31 December 2011, having served since 2008 and Garry Watts joined the Board as non-executive Chairman on 1 January 2012.
Following this change the Board comprised a nonexecutive Chairman, five independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
As reported in the Nomination Committee report on pages 59 and 60, the Committee reviews the composition of the Board on a regular basis to ensure that, as the business evolves, the Board continues to have the necessary skills to support the development of the business.
Amongst the provisions in the Code is a proposal that the directors of all FTSE 350 companies should stand for election every year rather than every third year as required previously.
Along with many of other FTSE 350 companies, the Board adopted that proposal last year.
Garry Watts, having been appointed to the Board since the last AGM is standing for election for the first time while all the other directors are standing for re-election at this years AGM.
Having served three years on the Board, James OSheas appointment has been extended for a further three years, subject to re-election at the AGM.
Following a formal evaluation process, the Chairman is satisfied that each of the directors continues to perform effectively and demonstrates commitment to their role, including commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings and their other duties.
Further information on the directors is shown in their biographies on pages 36 to 37.
Financial reporting and internal control The statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the preparation of the financial statements is set out on page 76 and the auditors statement on the respective responsibilities of directors and the auditor is included within its report set out on pages 77 and 78.
Communications with shareholders, be they results announcements, interim reports, annual reports or AGM and trading updates, are reviewed carefully and approved by the Board, or a sub-committee thereof, in order to ensure they are transparent and balanced in the view they give of the Companys progress and prospects.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains an adequate system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, undertakes the detailed monitoring of the controls, at least annually, and reports to the Board on its findings.
The Board has reviewed the system of internal controls including financial controls for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Such a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
48 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors and governance The criteria applied by the directors, in judging the effectiveness of these controls, are that they allow the maximisation of shareholder value by exploiting business opportunities whilst ensuring that risks are properly identified and managed.
The controls are regularly reviewed to ensure that they enable the proper management of business risks without so restricting efficiency and entrepreneurial nature that they inhibit proper running of the business.
As a result of the increasing complexity of the Group, a dedicated full-time internal auditor has been appointed to strengthen the control framework of the business.
Further information can be found in the Audit Committee report on pages 54 to 58.
Structure and reporting The Group has a management structure with clear lines of responsibility and accountability, staffed by appropriate personnel.
The Board is responsible for setting the overall strategy and reviewing the performance of the Group.
The Companys Leadership Team, chaired by the CEO, is responsible for the day-today running of Group operations.
Other team members include the CFO and senior staff members from the business.
The team is also responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the Companys strategy and subsequent implementation.
Other responsibilities include ensuring that appropriate internal controls are in place to manage and assess risk, and that they are fully complied with.
The fundamental elements of the Groups internal control and risk management framework are described below.
The Group has well defined management structures and processes for the acquisition, assessment and evaluation of business opportunities, and development and execution of commercialisation strategies.
A number of committees that monitor various parts of the business report to the Leadership Team on a regular basis: Development Leadership Team: Evaluates new technology opportunities, and is intimately involved in the definition and execution of development strategies.
Operational Leadership Team: Responsible for ensuring that the manufacturing and supply chain are tightly controlled and their operations are optimised, as far as practicable, meeting all regulatory requirements.
Performance Management Review: Monthly meeting of the Leadership Team and senior staff to review progress against business plans and targets, both financial and operational.
Risk Committee: Responsible for monitoring risks throughout the organisation and reporting findings to the Audit Committee twice yearly.
Compliance Committee: Responsible for maintaining a complete compliance system to ensure that the Group is fully compliant with all applicable laws including US Federal and State requirements that relate to the commercial operations of the Group, including its US sales and marketing teams.
This Committee reports to the Audit Committee at least twice yearly.
49 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors and governance Corporate governance Corporate Responsibility Committee: Ensures the Group maintains high standards in this area.
Integration Committee: Following the acquisition of the Biocompatibles group in January 2011, the Company set up an Integration Committee to manage all aspects of bringing the two businesses together.
The Committee completed its work during the year.
The Leadership Team meets formally at least once each month to review business performance measured against annual budgets, longer-term plans, an agreed set of objectives and performance criteria for each business unit.
Forecasts are monitored monthly on the basis of detailed reviews of progress and prospects.
Reporting to the Board is based on the information provided to and reviewed by the Leadership Team.
The reports include non-financial as well as financial information and a review of progress within the development portfolio.
Compliance and the review of risk and risk management are embedded throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the detailed reports of the Risk and Compliance Committees and reported its findings to the whole Board.
For further details see the Audit Committee report on pages 54 to 58.
The Board has reviewed the risk management process and confirms that ongoing processes and systems ensure that the Group continues to be compliant with the guidance on internal control issued by the Code.
The Group has a system for supporting the protection and maintenance of patents and other intellectual property rights.
The Group also actively monitors its royalty revenue streams and from time-to-time audits its major licensees to ensure compliance with the terms of the relevant agreements.
Approval procedures The Group has delegated authority structures that ensure that decisions are taken at an appropriate level, with an appropriate level of input by internal and external expert advisers.
The delegated authority structure prescribes financial limits of approval at each level and requires decisions with significant financial, legal or reputational impact for the Group to be approved by the Board.
Corporate policies, values and compliance Last year a new Code of Conduct was issued and all employees within the Group received appropriate training on its key requirements.
The Code of Conduct covers all aspects of ethics, business practices and compliance, including an updated whistle-blowing policy, an anti-bribery and corruption policy and policies related to the ethical conduct of research and development and interactions with doctors and other healthcare professionals.
Relevant employees meet regularly to discuss external changes in the regulatory, legal and financial environments in which the Group operates to ensure it remains fully compliant with new legislation and best practice.
The Group also runs periodic lunch and learn sessions updating staff on key issues affecting the business.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal controls of the Group.
The controls described above operate and are embedded within the day-to-day business.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
A reporting structure has been in place throughout the year, up to the date of approval of the financial statements and is regularly reviewed by the directors in accordance with the Code.
Further information is given in the Audit Committee report on pages 54 to 58.
50 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors and governance Related parties and conflicts of interest The Group maintains robust procedures to ensure that related party transactions and potential conflicts of interest are identified, disclosed and managed.
Directors declare interests in other businesses on appointment to the Board and thereafter complete an annual self-certification.
Where it is identified that a related party relationship exists, the Board agrees specific additional procedures to ensure the effective management of potential conflicts of interest.
Giles Kerr, a non-executive director of the Board, is also the Director of Finance for Oxford University and a director of Isis Innovations Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Oxford University.
Wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company entered into technology commercialisation and revenue sharing agreements with these organisations prior to Giles Kerr joining the Board.
The Group has licensed the intellectual property rights covered by these agreements to independent third-party companies that are developing and or selling the licensed products.
Under these licence agreements, the Group is entitled to receive milestone payments and or royalties on sales of the products sold by the third-party licensees.
Under the various revenue sharing agreements, the Group pays a share of any income it receives to Oxford University or Isis Innovations, depending on the specific technology that generated the income.
As the revenue sharing agreements do not permit these organisations to have any input over the commercialisation of the licensed products or the amount payable under the relevant revenue sharing agreement, Giles Kerr is not able to influence the amounts received in his position outside the Group.
Because he has no influence over any aspect of these agreements in his role outside the Group, the Company considers that his independence in relation to the BTG Group is not compromised.
Within the BTG Group, to avoid any possible conflict of interest, it has been agreed that Giles Kerr will not participate in any discussions or decisions concerning the relevant agreements either within the Board or in any other discussions or meetings with the executives of its subsidiaries.
The Board has considered, and is satisfied with, this separation of duties.
See note 32 on page 127 for additional related party disclosures.
Market abuse directive The Company has a Disclosure Committee, as required by the Market Abuse Directive, comprising the CEO, CFO and the Director of Investor Relations.
The Committee reviews all significant items of business within the Group regularly, and on an ad hoc basis if required, and maintains an Insider List recording both those employed within the Group and at external advisers who may have access to inside information.
Whenever individuals are placed on or removed from the List they are notified accordingly and advised of their responsibilities.
Relations with shareholders and constructive use of the AGM Relations with shareholders The Group endeavours to maintain good communications with shareholders through formal and informal dialogue.
The Company formally reports its results twice a year with full year results announced in May and interim results in November.
The CEO and CFO give presentations of these results to the Companys institutional shareholders, analysts and the media.
The presentations are broadcast live on the internet for the information of all shareholders.
The presentations are available, thereafter, as an archive on the Companys website and a webcast of the event remains on the website for approximately a year.
In addition, the Company prepares interim management statements in January and July that are released to a regulatory news service and are available on the Companys website.
51 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors and governance Corporate governance The CEO and CFO meet regularly with institutional investors with support from the Investor Relations department.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other directors are available to meet with major shareholders on request.
As part of his role as the Senior Independent Director, Giles Kerr is available to shareholders when contact with the executive directors or the Chairman may not be appropriate.
No requests have been received from major shareholders to meet with the Chairman, Senior Independent Director or other non-executive directors during the year.
The Investor Relations department acts as a contact point for investors throughout the year.
The directors receive a report from the Investor Relations department at each Board meeting giving information on the changes in shareholdings and any feedback from the Companys brokers and investors.
Following the twice-yearly results announcements and any subsequent shareholder meetings held by management, detailed feedback from external advisers and brokers is provided to the Board, outlining the views and reactions of investors and analysts.
This enables the Board to develop an understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
The Annual Report contains a full business review and the Interim Report, which is available on the Companys website, gives an update at the half year.
Extensive information, including annual and interim reports, interim management statements and all press releases, is published on the Groups website www.
com for access by all shareholders.
In addition, through the website, individuals can register to receive electronic copies of all Company announcements on the day they are issued.
Annual General Meeting The AGM is the principal opportunity for private shareholders to meet and discuss the Groups business with the directors and other senior management.
A full business presentation is given and there is an open question and answer session during which shareholders may ask questions both about the resolutions being proposed and the business in general.
The directors are available after the meeting for an informal discussion with shareholders.
The AGM will be held at 2.00pm on 17 July 2012, at the offices of Stephenson Harwood LLP, 1 Finsbury Circus, London EC2M 7SH.
The Notice convening the meeting is distributed separately to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
It is also available on the Companys website: www.
com, where a copy can be viewed or downloaded in PDF format by following the link to Investor Relations and then Report and Accounts.
The letter accompanying the AGM Notice includes details of the resolutions and explanatory notes thereon.
Members of the Company unable to attend the meeting may elect to vote electronically or using the proxy form accompanying the Notice.
In order to vote electronically, members should log on to Capita Registrars website www.
com and follow the instructions on the screen.
Crest members may send their proxy votes to the Companys registrars electronically.
At the AGM the number of proxy votes cast in favour, against and withheld in respect of each resolution will be disclosed and subsequently published in a market announcement and on the Companys website.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be present at the AGM to answer shareholders questions.
52 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors and governance Audit Committee and auditor The Company has an established Audit Committee with the principal responsibilities of overseeing financial reporting and internal control matters and maintaining appropriate relations with the Companys auditor.
A report on the work of the Committee is set out on pages 54 to 58.
Appointments to the Board The Company has a Nomination Committee with responsibilities that include reviewing the size and composition of the Board: making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of executive and non-executive directors, and the re-appointment of non-executive directors when their terms of appointment expire: and for ensuring that succession planning is in place.
The Committee also advises the Board on matters generally relating to Board appointments and meets as required but at least twice a year.
A report on the work of the Committee is set out on pages 59 and 60.
Compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code The Board considers that the Company complied in full with the principles set out in the Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2012.
Details of directors remuneration, as required by the Code and Schedule 8 to the Largeand MediumSized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, are set out in the remuneration report on pages 61 to 75.
The Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, is required to review whether this corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with nine of the Codes provisions as specified in the Listing Rules of the FSA, relating to Accountability and Audit.
Having conducted such a review KPMG is obliged to report if it considers this statement of corporate governance does not reflect such compliance.
The Company confirms that no such report has been made.
53 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors and governance
