Directors and governance Nomination Committee report The Committee, established by the Board, is responsible for appointments and reviewing the structure of the Board and its Committees.
The Committees full terms of reference, updated during the year, are available on the Companys website, or from the Company on request, and are summarised below: The Committee and its membership Summary of the Committees terms of reference To review regularly the structure, size and composition of the Board and make recommendations to the Board on any appropriate changes.
To identify and nominate, for the Boards approval, suitable candidates to fill any vacancies for non-executive directors and, with the assistance of the Chief Executive Officer, executive directors.
To plan for the orderly succession of directors to the Board.
To recommend to the Board the membership and chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration committees.
Members Members Committee member since 1 John Brown Committee Chairman 17 March 2008 Garry Watts Committee Chairman 1 January 2012 Peter Chambr 22 May 2007 Giles Kerr 16 July 2008 Ian Much 1 January 2012 James OShea 13 May 2009 1 John Brown resigned from the Committee and the Board on 31 December 2011 and was succeeded as Chairman of the Committee and the Board by Garry Watts.
2 Details of attendance at meetings are shown in the table on page 44.
Other attendees at Nomination Committee meetings The Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings by invitation.
The Company Secretary or his deputy serves as secretary to the Committee.
Activities The principal activities during the year related to the recruitment of a new Chairman and the commencement of a search for a new Chief Financial Officer, as outlined below.
At the start of the process for appointing new directors, the Committee prepares a full description of the role, desired skills and capabilities required for the appointment.
External search consultants are usually appointed to assist with finding suitable candidates.
The Committee interviews candidates and then produces a shortlist for a subsequent interview by all Board members.
In assessing candidates for board roles, the Committee has regard to the objective of ensuring appropriate diversity including gender diversity of Board composition.
Following the decision of John Brown to resign, the Committee commenced a search for a new Chairman led by Giles Kerr, Senior Independent Director.
The Committee instructed Zygos LLP to find suitable candidates for interview.
The Committee carried out a rigorous interview and selection process and their shortlisted candidates were also interviewed by the other non-executive directors and the Chief Executive Officer.
The Committee, taking into account the views of the other directors, then recommended to the Board that Garry Watts be appointed to succeed John Brown as Chairman.
The Board accepted the recommendation and Garry Watts was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2012.
59 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors and governance Nomination Committee report Following the announcement of the intended resignation of Rolf Soderstrom as Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer on 1 November 2011, the Committee commenced the search for a replacement by engaging Egon Zehnder.
This search was terminated following agreement that Rolf Soderstrom would stay with the Company and continue in his current role.
Following the appointment of new non-executive directors, the Committee ensures that they receive a full induction programme.
As part of the induction process the new director is given a full briefing on the financial history of the Company and details of its strategy, operating plans, budgets and forecasts for future years.
Arrangements are also made for the new director to meet with the heads of the various business units and functions for an in-depth briefing on the areas in which the Company is involved.
A briefing on corporate governance and directors responsibilities may also be given and the opportunity to attend external courses is also available.
The Committee reviews succession plans and plans for emergency cover of key managers and directors on a regular basis.
As part of corporate governance, the Committee also carried out a review of its effectiveness and reported the results and its recommendations for improvement to the Board.
Garry Watts Chairman of the Nomination Committee 60 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
