Audit Committee report Dear Shareholder The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor and enhance the integrity of the Groups internal controls and financial reporting.
The increasing complexity of the business and the current economic climate presents continuing challenges to the Committee which it is required to address.
A major part of the Committees time is spent reviewing the financial reports, internal controls and risks to the Group.
Another area of particular focus during the year was the impact of the UK anti-bribery legislation and the procedures being put in place to ensure compliance throughout the Group and third-parties with which the Group interacts.
As reported last year, with the increasing size and complexity of the business a dedicated full time internal auditor has been appointed which has strengthened the internal control framework of the business.
The following report sets out the activities of the Committee over the past year and how it has discharged its functions.
Giles Kerr Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee and its membership The Committee, established by the Board, is responsible for monitoring all aspects of financial reporting and management of risk.
The Committees full terms of reference, reviewed and updated during the year, are available on the Companys website, or from the Company on request, and are summarised below: Summary of the Committees terms of reference Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, internal control policies and procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk.
Monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements.
Reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements.
Monitoring the role and effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Approving an annual programme of internal audit work.
Considering and making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the auditor.
Agreeing the scope of the auditors annual audit programme and reviewing the output.
Keeping the relationship with the auditor under review, including terms of engagement, fees, their independence and expertise, resources and qualifications: and assessing the effectiveness of the audit process.
Developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the auditor to supply non-audit services.
Members Members Committee member since Giles Kerr Committee Chairman 6 November 2007 Peter Chambr 1 November 2010 Ian Much 1 November 2010 Details of attendance at meetings are shown in the table on page 44.
54 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors and governance Committee members qualications Giles Kerr is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and Director of Finance at Oxford University.
He is considered by the Board to have the necessary significant recent and relevant financial experience to qualify him to be the Chairman of the Committee.
He receives additional remuneration to compensate him for his additional responsibilities, as set out on page 69.
Other members bring substantial experience in the pharmaceutical and international business areas as well as financial expertise to the deliberations of the Committee.
For further information, see the directors biographies on pages 36 and 37.
Other attendees at Audit Committee meetings The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Director of Finance, Group Financial Controller and Internal Auditor normally attend meetings.
The external auditor usually attends the meetings.
The Company Secretary or his deputy serves as secretary to the Committee.
Activities A summary of matters considered at the Committee since the last Annual Report and actions taken is shown below: Review of the Groups half-year results to 30 September 2011 and full-year results to 31 March 2012. Review of the reports from the external auditor on the half-year and full-year results.
Review of Internal Auditors work plan and results of site visits.
Consideration of accounting issues, changes in accounting standards and their impact on Group reporting.
Review of the scope, nature, resource planning and fee estimate for the full-year audit.
Review of trading updates issued by the Group and amendments thereto.
Assessment of the going concern basis.
Review of risk management systems, internal controls and fraud procedures.
Review of the Groups compliance systems and policies and the results of internal compliance monitoring and auditing.
Review of the Groups whistle-blowing policy.
Review of the impact of the UK Bribery Act on the operations of the Group and adoption of a new anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy.
Review of the disclosures relating to material risks in the business review.
Review and amendment of Committee terms of reference.
Completion of an effectiveness review.
Financial results review A key role of the Committee is to undertake detailed monitoring of the interim and annual financial statements.
As part of this review it discusses the audit findings and auditors report with management and the external auditor and considers significant judgements and issues contained in them, whether the financial statements comply fully with the relevant statutes and accounting standards and if they present a balanced assessment of the Companys financial position and prospects.
Following this discussion the Chairman of the Committee reports the results of its review to the full Board.
The external auditor meets with the non-executive directors in the absence of management at the time when the halfand full-year results are discussed.
55 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors and governance Audit Committee report Internal control and risk review The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains an adequate system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, undertakes the detailed monitoring of the controls and reports to the Board on its findings twice-yearly.
The Committee has reviewed the system of internal controls including financial, operational, compliance and risk for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Such a system is designed to appropriately manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The criteria applied by the directors, in judging the effectiveness of these controls, are that they allow the maximisation of shareholder value by exploiting business opportunities while ensuring that risks are properly identified and managed.
The controls are regularly reviewed to ensure that they enable the proper management of business risks without so restricting efficiency and entrepreneurial nature that they inhibit proper running of the business.
The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the material controls of the Group, which are embedded within the day-to-day business.
The Committee with the Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
A reporting structure has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the financial statements and is regularly reviewed by the directors in accordance with the Code.
The Risk Committee, chaired by the CFO and including staff from all sections of the business, reviews the risks throughout the business and identifies and evaluates risks which may impact on the Groups strategic and business objectives.
The Risk Committee maintains a risk management plan that identifies and evaluates the key risks.
The plan is designed to assess the probability of those risks occurring, the impact should they occur, how such risks may be mitigated and monitored and the actions and individuals responsible for managing the risks and delivering the mitigations.
The Committee continues to monitor all areas of risk and the progress of actions designed to mitigate such risks, including a consideration of what comprises an acceptable level of risk in key areas and the optimal mitigation strategy, having regard to the costs, timelines and likelihood of success of the mitigation options.
The Committee reports its findings twice-yearly through the Audit Committee to the Board.
The Audit Committee received the latest report at its May 2012 meeting, and was satisfied with actions being taken to control and mitigate risks identified.
The Group also has a Compliance Committee, which is responsible for maintaining a compliance system to ensure that the Group is compliant with all applicable laws such as US Federal and State requirements that relate to the commercial operations of the Group including its US sales and marketing teams.
The results are reported to the Audit Committee alongside the twice-yearly risk management report.
For details of principal risks and uncertainties that may affect the business, see pages 26 to 29 in the business review.
Following the decision last year to establish an internal audit function in the Group, a full-time auditor has been appointed and an external consultant has also been employed to provide additional guidance and insight in the formation of the department.
The Internal Auditor has direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, in addition to a reporting line within the Head Office finance function.
56 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors and governance In the initial period the Internal Auditor is concentrating on internal financial reviews and visits to all major sites are taking place.
This work is in addition to the responsibility of each local finance function for internal control compliance in their part of the organisation.
The Committee approved the proposed work plan of the Internal Auditor and received reports on the results of work carried out during the year.
The Committee noted that the work carried out by the Internal Auditor did not identify any material weaknesses in internal control but approved proposals to enhance control procedures.
The Committee proposed that the internal audit work plan should be expanded to increase the focus on key control risks and sales compliance audit in the coming year in addition to the current work on financial controls.
Whistle-blowing The Committee is responsible for ensuring that arrangements under which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial performance or other matters are operating effectively and that appropriate follow-up action takes place.
Included within the Code of Conduct are details of the Groups whistle-blowing policy and there are posters and pamphlets prominently displayed at each site giving details of what employees should do if they have concerns regarding any aspect of the business.
Employees are encouraged to report any concerns without fear of recrimination and an independent telephone line is available should staff wish to use it.
The arrangements were reviewed by the Committee during the year.
UK Bribery Act The UK Bribery Act, 2010 Act came into force on 1 July 2011, introducing significant changes in UK anti-bribery and anti-corruption law.
In response to the Act, the Group has implemented enhanced policies and procedures to seek to prevent bribery and corruption, both within the Group and by third parties with which it works.
The Groups response to the Act is consistent with its corporate values and is intended to be proportionate and practical yet ensure a significant reduction in the risk of potential liabilities under the Act.
The Groups revised policies and procedures take into account the guidance issued by the UK Ministry of Justice with respect to what would constitute adequate procedures for the purposes of establishing a defence to the strict liability provisions of the Act in the event of the occurrence of bribery or corruption within the Group or by third-party companies acting on its behalf.
These procedures, which are embedded in the delegated authority process, require the Group to categorise the risk high, medium or low associated with certain activities, relationships or territories, and apply more rigorous procedures where there is a perception of increased risk.
This process includes the conduct of appropriate due diligence on third parties that will act on behalf of the Group, especially in countries, or with respect to activities that are perceived to have a higher bribery and corruption risk.
57 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors and governance Audit Committee report Review of external auditor The Committee reviews the overall performance of the auditor annually and approves its terms of engagement and remuneration.
The Committee discussed the auditors proposed work plan prior to the commencement of the audit of the results for the year to 31 March 2012 and also reviews the non-audit work carried out by the Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc KPMG, to ensure that such services do not impair its independence or objectivity.
The Committee agreed a new process for approving the use of the auditor for non-audit work detailing areas where the auditors may not be used, areas where they may be used subject to the agreement of the Committee and areas where prior approval is not required.
Areas where prior approval is not required include audit-related services as specified in the APB Ethical Standards for Auditors and other services, that are routine in nature, where the fee is not significant in the context of the audit fee and where the conduct of such services will not adversely impact auditor independence or objectivity.
The Committee will receive a written annual report describing the fees paid to the auditors for non-audit work and whether such services were pre-approved or specifically approved by the Committee.
The auditor was employed to carry out the following non-audit work during the year: Fees Audit Committee approval Task 000 Pre-approval required Preparation of corporate tax returns for overseas Group undertakings 46 Total fees paid to the Companys auditor, KPMG, are shown in note 8 on page 99.
The Committee believes that the use of KPMG was appropriate and efficient in the circumstances and that independence was preserved as a partner other than the audit partner was responsible for the work and the fees paid were insignificant in the context of the size of KPMG as a whole.
The auditor is appointed by the shareholders at the AGM to ensure its independence.
The Committee regularly discusses the independence of the auditor and whether there should be a need to rotate audit firms.
Given the relative size of the Group to that of KPMG and that the lead audit partner is changed on a regular basis at least every five years, the Committee is presently satisfied that KPMG is independent in its reporting on the audit of the Group and rotation of firms is not necessary.
The current lead audit partner took over the audit as from the year ended 31 March 2009.
The Group has noted the proposals relating to the rotation of auditors included in proposed EU legislation and will take the appropriate action once any legislation has been passed.
As part of corporate governance, the Committee also carried out a review of its effectiveness and reported the results and its recommendations for improvement to the Board.
58 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
