Governance Report The Governance Report set out below is designed to provide shareholders with a summary of the Groups governance arrangements and an explanation of how the Company has applied the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code Governance Code as relevant for the Company in 2012.
The Directors believe that the Company has complied with the provisions set out in the Governance Code except as stated below.
A printed copy of the Governance Code can be obtained free of charge from the FRC publications by telephone 44 0 20 8247 1264, email cch@wolterskluwer.
The Board The Board is responsible to Bumi plcs shareholders for creating and delivering sustainable shareholder value through the management of the Groups businesses within the Companys governance framework.
It does this by setting Group strategy and values and then ensuring that appropriate standards, controls and resources are in place to deliver it.
As well as oversight responsibility for financial performance, internal controls and risk management of the Group, the Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it which is available at www.
In 2011 the Board designed an appropriate governance framework in line with the Governance Code and generally accepted good practice.
It also respected the fact that PT Berau, its principal business, is a publicly listed company in Indonesia with its own governance and legal obligations.
Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities have been delegated to the following committees Committees and the terms of reference of such Committees are available at www.
com: Audit Committee: Remuneration Committee: Nomination Committee: HSEC Committee and Conflicts Committee.
The majority of the members of the Board are INEDs.
The terms of reference of the Committees were reviewed during 2012.
The membership of all the Committees comprises only INEDs and in the case of the HSEC Committee, an independent technical adviser.
Where appropriate the Board delegates aspects of its responsibilities to specific members or committees.
During the course of 2012, the Board established an Investigation Committee, comprising only INEDs, to oversee the conduct of an independent investigation into potential financial irregularities in its operations in Indonesia, in particular in relation to PT Bumi.
The investigation was undertaken by Macfarlanes.
In addition, the Board delegated to the INEDs the responsibility for reviewing and pursuing the Proposed Separation.
Following the conclusion of the Macfarlanes investigation in early 2013, the Board established a Litigation Committee, comprising Nick von Schirnding and INEDs who were not on the Board at the time of the original transaction, to review all potential claims relating to the matters arising out of the investigation, including arising out of the original transactions to acquire shareholdings in PT Berau and PT Bumi in November 2010.
The remit of the Litigation Committee has since been extended to the review of all potential claims arising out of the extensive review of the financial position at PT Berau conducted by new management.
The role of the Investigation and Litigation Committees is covered in greater detail later on in this report.
The Board and its permanent Committees have regular scheduled meetings and hold additional meetings as and when necessary.
During 2012, the Board met five times on scheduled occasions and three additional meetings took place.
Directors are expected, where possible, to attend all Board meetings, relevant Committee meetings, the AGM and any General Meetings.
The core activities of the Board and its Committees are documented and planned on an annual basis with an annual schedule of agenda items and the maintenance of, and follow-up on, a list of matters arising from each meeting.
The INEDs meet without the Executive Directors and the non-independent Non-Executive Directors at the end of each scheduled Board meeting and at other times when appropriate.
A list of the individual Directors, their biographies and committee memberships as at the date of this report, and the changes in Board membership during the year under review are set out in this report.
When he joined the Board as Chairman, Samin Tan was not independent within the criteria of the Governance Code on the date of his appointment as he was nominated as a Director of the Company under the Bakrie Groups relationship agreement with the Company.
The roles of the Chairman and the CEO are separate and their responsibilities are set out in a statement the Responsibilities Statement approved by the Board which is available at www.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effective running of the Board.
The CEO is responsible for the running of the Groups business within the authorities delegated by the Board.
Following the appointment of Nick von Schirnding on 31 December 2012 as the first unaffiliated CEO in the Group, a new executive committee has been established with formal terms of reference whose primary purpose is to align and implement the Companys corporate governance framework across the Group and assist him in managing the business of the Group in accordance with the authorities delegated by the Board and save for matters expressly reserved for the Board.
Sir Julian Horn-Smith is the Senior Independent Director SID and Deputy Chairman of the Company.
His role and responsibilities as SID are also set out in the Responsibilities Statement.
As well as maintaining contact with major shareholders and making himself available to shareholders whose concerns have not been satisfied through the normal channels, the SID is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee and is also responsible for ensuring that the performance of the Board, its Committees and all Directors including the Chairman is evaluated at least once a year, working as appropriate with the Nomination Committee.
As at the date of this report, the Board was made up of 11 Directors comprising the Chairman Samin Tan, two Executive Directors Nick von Schirnding, CEO and Scott Merrillees, CFO, one non-independent Non-Executive Director Alexander Ramlie and seven INEDs Sir Julian Horn-Smith, Sir Graham Hearne, Lord Robin Renwick, Steven Shapiro, Amir Sambodo, Graham Holdaway and Sir Richard Gozney.
The Board considers all its INEDs to be independent in accordance with the Governance Code and reviews the independence of its INEDs annually in accordance with the criteria set out within the Governance Code.
Following the sale by Bukit Mutiara of its entire shareholding in the Company in February 2013, the relationship agreement between Bukit Mutiara and the Company terminated and no current director has been appointed pursuant to that agreement.
Under the terms of the relationship agreement with the Bakrie Group, the Bakrie Group can nominate for appointment up to three Directors for the positions of Chairman, CEO and CFO subject to the Bakrie Group retaining control of 15% of the votes able to be cast at general meetings of the Company.
This relationship agreement also regulates relations between the Bakrie Group and the Company with provisions which require that the Company will comply with the Listing Rules: the Company will be capable at all times of carrying on its business independently of such shareholders: all transactions and relationships between the Company and the Bakrie Group are at arms-length on a normal commercial basis: and the goodwill, reputation and Bumi plc Annual Report Page 30 Governance Report continued commercial interests of the Company are maintained.
These relationship agreements were entered into as part of the original transaction when the Company acquired its shareholding in PT Berau and PT Bumi and were fully disclosed at the time.
There have been significant changes to the composition of the Board since September 2012 with the resignations of Messrs. Roeslani, Hudaya and Bakrie, who represented the major shareholders in the Company, Mr Rothschild, who represented the founders of Vallar plc, and Messrs. Yeo and Harsono, who were INEDs, as well as the changes which took place at the general meeting of shareholders on 21 February 2013 with the departure of Messrs. Rathod and Mizrahi and the appointment of Sir Richard Gozney, an INED proposed by Mr Rothschild.
Board meeting Director Role attended in 2012 Indra Bakrie Chairman until 26 March 2012, then Co-Chairman until 7 December 2012 0 7 Samin Tan Chairman from 26 March 2012 7 7 Nathaniel Rothschild Co-Chairman until 26 March 2012 then Non-Executive Director until 15 October 2012 7 7 Ari Hudaya Chief Executive until 26 March 2012 then Non-executive Director until 24 September 2012 0 7 Nalin Rathod Chief Executive from 26 March 2012 until 31 December 2012 then Non-Executive Director until 21 February 2013 6 7 Andrew Beckham Chief Financial Officer until 26 March 2012 2 2 Scott Merrillees Chief Financial Officer from 26 March 2012 6 7 Alexander Ramlie Non-executive Director from 14 June 2012 5 6 Sir Julian Horn-Smith Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 8 8 Lord Renwick Independent Non-executive Director 7 8 Steven Shapiro Independent Non-executive Director 7 8 Sir Graham Hearne Independent Non-executive Director 7 8 Amir Sambodo Independent Non-executive Director 6 8 Graham Holdaway Independent Non-executive Director from 14 June 2012 6 6 Suyulianto Badung Tariono Independent Non-executive Director until 14 June 2012 2 3 James Campbell Non-executive Director until 14 June 2012 3 3 Rosan Roeslani Non-executive Director until 19 December 2012 4 8 Jean-Marc Mizrahi Independent Non-executive Director from 14 June 2012 to 21 February 2013 5 6 Philip Yeo Independent Non-executive Director until 15 March 2013 6 8 Sony B Harsono Independent Non-executive Director until 15 March 2013 6 8 Details of the level and makeup of the Directors remuneration and the work of the Remuneration Committee as required by the Governance Code and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 51.
Details of the Companys share capital structures can be found in Other Statutory Information on pages 52 to 55.
The terms of appointment for all Directors are available for inspection in accordance with the Governance Code and the Board is satisfied that their other duties do not conflict with their time commitments as Directors of the Company.
The Chairmans other commitments are as indicated in his profile on page 28 and do not affect his ability to devote sufficient time to the Company.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 31 Governance Report continued Following the completion of the Companys acquisition of its interests in PT Berau and PT Bumi in early 2011, the Board considered that there was an appropriate range and balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board.
As previously announced, the Company will be restructuring the Board to make it smaller and more appropriate for the business going forward and Samin Tan will become a nonindependent non-executive director following completion of the Proposed Separation and the appointment of a new independent chairman.
All Directors are subject to re-election annually by the shareholders, the next time being at the AGM on 26 June 2013.
The resolutions to be proposed regarding such re-elections will be set out in the Companys notice of AGM AGM Notice which is being issued in a separate document and will provide shareholders with the required notice prior to the holding of the AGM on 26 June 2013.
At the AGM on 26 June 2013, Sir Graham Hearne, Scott Merrillees and Lord Renwick will be retiring from the Board.
Sir Julian Horn-Smith and Steven Shapiro have informed the Board that they will stand for re-election at the AGM in order to assist in an orderly transition and will continue to serve for an appropriate period to help achieve this.
Subject to the outcome of the AGM, Graham Holdaway will succeed Lord Renwick as chairman of the Audit Committee, Steven Shapiro will succeed Sir Graham Hearne as chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Sir Richard Gozney will become chairman of the Conflicts Committee replacing Steve Shapiro.
The Board, through the Nomination Committee, has commissioned searches using independent search firms for a new independent chairman and an unaffiliated CFO.
All Directors appointed to the Board receive an induction programme upon joining the Board which, depending upon their qualifications and experience, will include presentations and briefings, meetings with Board members, senior management and external advisers, and visits to key sites and offices.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring compliance with the Board procedures.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the SID and the chairmen of each of the Committees, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretarys role includes ensuring good information flows within the Board and its Committees, and between the Companys senior management and Non-Executive Directors, as well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional development as required.
Given the matters the Board has had to address it has not been possible to implement a detailed on going professional development programme other than a briefing to update the Board regarding HSEC developments.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and to each of its Committees other than the Investigation and Litigation Committees where Macfarlanes performs this role.
The appointment or removal of the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Directors may obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense if they believe it may be required in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company has previously stated that it would be conducting an independent externally facilitated evaluation of the Board in 2012.
However, given the significant changes to the composition of the Board since September 2012, such external evaluation has not proved practicable and accordingly this process has been conducted at the committee level through questionnaires and discussions.
The Nomination Committee has reviewed the performance of Directors in connection with the AGM Notice.
The Nomination Committee has not formally evaluated the performance of the Chairman as he will be stepping down following completion of the Proposed Separation.
The Board fully intends that an independently facilitated Board evaluation will take place at least once every three years in accordance with the Governance Code.
Events since the last Annual Report Since the last Annual Report, the Board and its Committees have sought to apply the Groups approved governance framework working under the leadership of the CEO of the Company.
This has been a challenging period for the Board which has had to deal with the following matters in particular: i an independent investigation into allegations concerning potential financial and other irregularities in the Companys Indonesian operations, in particular in relation to PT Bumi: ii the loss of significant influence and the re-classification of PT Bumi as an investment: iii the receipt of separation proposals put forward by the Bakrie Group and NR Investments Limited: iv the appointment of the first unaffiliated CEO of the Group and the appointment of the first unaffiliated President Director of PT Berau: v the general meeting requisitioned by Mr Rothschild: vi the appointment of an independent search firm to conduct a search for an independent chairman: and vii an extensive review of the financial position at PT Berau undertaken by new management in PT Berau which led to the suspension of the listing of Bumi plc shares.
An independent investigation into allegations concerning potential financial and other irregularities in the Companys Indonesian operations, in particular in relation to PT Bumi As part of the application of its governance framework, during 2012 the Board had been investigating certain financial transactions when, on 24 September 2012 following the receipt of materials of unsubstantiated provenance, it announced that it had become aware of allegations concerning potential financial and other irregularities in the Companys Indonesian operations, principally regarding PT Bumi, and established an Bumi plc Annual Report Page 32 Governance Report continued Investigation Committee.
The Investigation Committee comprised Sir Julian Horn-Smith Chairman, Sir Graham Hearne, Graham Holdaway and Steve Shapiro and it instructed Macfarlanes to conduct an independent investigation into the allegations.
As set out in the Companys announcement on 22 January 2013, the Investigation conducted by Macfarlanes has been completed.
However, as disclosed in the Companys circular issued on 28 January 2013, the clear evidence that information was obtained by illegal email hacking which is a criminal offence in Indonesia and the unsubstantiated nature of the allegations largely as a result of investigators being denied access to relevant individuals has seriously hindered the Companys ability to take remedial action.
Notwithstanding this, the Board is taking all appropriate action open to it in respect of the findings of the independent investigation to pursue remedies where available and to liaise with all the relevant regulators in the UK and Indonesia.
To this end, following the conclusion of the Macfarlanes investigation, the Board established a Litigation Committee, comprising Graham Holdaway Chairman, Amir Sambodo, Nick von Schirnding and Sir Richard Gozney, to review all potential claims relating to the matters arising out of the investigation.
The Litigation Committee has, therefore, been reviewing all aspects of the original transactions to acquire shareholdings in PT Berau and PT Bumi in November 2010.
Macfarlanes has obtained and reviewed a substantial quantity of documents in relation to the transactions, including documents from Vallar Advisers LP and other professional advisers.
Cooperation has also been sought from certain individuals and advisers involved in the transactions, and detailed interviews have been conducted with a number of those involved.
The fact finding stage has been substantially completed and leading counsel has been requested to prepare detailed advice setting out the merits of all available claims and the nature of the Companys remedies.
In relation to PT Berau and its investment in the Chateau fund, a letter before action has been sent to the fund manager by PT Beraus Cayman Islands solicitors seeking realisation of the investment through the appointment of independent directors, or alternatively the winding-up of the fund manager by the court.
Macfarlanes has also sent a formal notice of dispute to Bukit Mutiara, triggering the dispute resolution procedure under the original sale and purchase agreement with Bukit Mutiara.
If a satisfactory response is not received, legal proceedings will be commenced.
The loss of significant influence and the re-classification of PT Bumi as an investment Following the announcement of the independent investigation on 24 September 2012 and the resignation from the Board of Ari Hudaya, the President Director of PT Bumi, the Board concluded that it was no longer able to exert significant influence over PT Bumi via its 29% minority shareholding and re-classified PT Bumi from an associate to an investment with effect from 30 September 2012.
This lack of influence extended to the Company being unable to obtain access to the working papers of Tjiendradjaja & Handoko Tomo Mazars Indonesia, the auditors of PT Bumi.
PwC has therefore not been able to complete its audit procedures over Bumi plcs share of the loss of PT Bumi for the nine months ended 30 September 2012, and its qualified audit opinion reflects this limitation on the scope of their work.
The receipt of separation proposals from the Bakrie Group and NR Investments On 11 October 2012 the Board announced that the Bakrie Group had proposed to enter into a transaction with the Company the effect of which would be for the Company to separate from the Bakrie Group and dispose of its shareholdings in PT Bumi.
The Board delegated to the INEDs the responsibility for reviewing this offer and appointed Rothschild Group to assist the INEDs and to evaluate this proposal together with the NR Investments Limiteds alternative which was received on 5 November 2012.
Following such evaluation it was decided to pursue the Proposed Separation.
The Company is currently preparing a shareholder circular to convene a general meeting at which the transaction in respect of which heads of terms were agreed and announced on 12 February 2013, will be put to a shareholder vote.
The arrangements in respect of $50m deposited in an escrow account by the Bakrie Group in relation to this proposed transaction have been extended to 26 June 2013.
The details of this proposed transaction are set out in footnote 2 on page 3.
The appointment of the first unaffiliated CEO of the Group and the first unaffiliated President Director of PT Berau On 12 December 2012 the Company announced that Nalin Rathod would be stepping down as CEO on 31 December 2012 to be replaced by Nick von Schirnding who was not affiliated to any founders or major shareholders and, on 28 January 2013, the Board announced that Eko Budianto would replace Rosan Roeslani as the President Director or PT Berau.
This appointment was confirmed at the shareholders meeting of PT Berau held on 7 March 2013.
The general meeting requisitioned by Mr Rothschild On 7 January 2013 the Company announced that it had received a letter from a nominee shareholder on behalf of Mr Rothschild requisitioning a general meeting of the Company to remove 12 of the 14 directors and appoint new directors in response to which the Board issued a circular to shareholders on 28 January 2013 which included a notice of general meeting.
In that circular, the Board also announced that it intended to execute the separation from the Bakrie Group and PT Bumi and restructure the Board upon such separation being implemented.
Following the general meeting held on 21 February 2013 the Board announced that 19 of the 22 proposed resolutions had been rejected, that all directors had been retained on the Board with the exception of Messrs Rathod and Mizrahi, and that Sir Richard Gozney, the former British Ambassador to Indonesia, had been elected to the Board.
The Board welcomed the decision of shareholders to support it on substantially all resolutions, which provided an endorsement of the Boards strategy as set out in its notice to shareholders, and respected shareholders decisions on the other resolutions.
The recruitment of an independent chairman On 22 January 2013, the Company announced that Samin Tan had informed the Board that he would step down as Chairman of the Company once a new independent chairman is found but will remain on the Board as the Companys business partner in Indonesia.
As mentioned in the Nomination Committee report, the recruitment of a new chairman, who has experience in, and is familiar to, the London market is well advanced following the appointment of an independent search firm.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 33 Governance Report continued An extensive review of the financial position at PT Berau undertaken by new management at PT Berau which led to the suspension of the listing of Bumi plc shares Whilst former directors of PT Berau had agreed to work within the Groups approved governance framework, allowing for adaptation to local requirements, it became evident that not all the Groups policies were being fully complied with despite assurances to the contrary.
In particular there were concerns about non-compliance with delegated authorities, matters reserved for the Board and failure to fully disclose related party transactions.
In response the Board, through the Audit Committee, undertook a review of contracts and payments to identify counterparties and the extent of any transactions with related parties.
This work concluded that a number of related party transactions had not been disclosed by former PT Berau management and that a number of large payments could not be determined as having a clear business purpose.
Despite a thorough review it was not possible to conclude that all related party transactions entered into by former PT Berau management for the year ended 31 December 2012 had been identified and, as a result, PwCs audit opinion reflects this limitation in their scope.
Further details are set out in Note 31 to the Financial Statements.
The formal appointment of a new President Director Eko Budianto and the resignation of former PT Berau directors at a General Meeting of Shareholders of PT Berau held on 7 March 2013 coincided with the previously appointed CFO of PT Berau Scott Merrillees receiving his Indonesian work permit thereby enabling him to exercise the necessary bank mandate authorities to be fully effective in PT Berau.
The new President Director and the CFO immediately initiated an extensive review of the financial position of PT Berau with the assistance of external legal and accounting advisers.
This review focused on payments described as being for hauling roads and other  and land related payments as well as unusual transactions where the business purpose was not clear.
The review also included an assessment of contracts and a search for evidence of unrecorded liabilities, commitments and encumbrances on assets.
This review uncovered evidence of apparent financial irregularities and identified significant expenditure, predominantly in 2012, for which no clear business purpose could be established.
By mid-April 2013, the review had revealed $56m of expenditure attributed to hauling roads and overburden removal where insufficient evidence could be found to support the capitalisation of these costs as previous PT Berau management had intended.
Similarly $38m of land compensation payments could not be validated.
Furthermore this review identified previously undisclosed encumbrances on cash balances and that some of the information provided to the Remuneration Committee had not been complete.
As a result of this review, PT Berau management were not in a position to report results by 30 April 2013 and, as a consequence, on 22 April 2013, the Board requested that the Bumi plc shares be temporarily suspended.
Following the completion of this review in May 2013 it was concluded that payments to the value of $152m in 2012 and $49m in 2011 could not be substantiated as having a clear business purpose.
In these circumstances the Board has disclosed all such expenditure as other exceptional costs in the income statement and, where relevant, in the disclosure of related parties transactions.
A summary of re-classifications and re-statements arising from this review is set out in Note 2 in the Financial Statements.
The Company and PT Berau reacted swiftly to these findings and Indonesian legal advisers have been instructed by the Company to provide a full report to the Litigation Committee on all options available to PT Berau to seek recourse and take appropriate action against wrongdoers.
The Company is also engaged in discussions to attempt to recover what the Board considers to have been inappropriate expenditure.
The Company will pursue all means available for the recovery of all relevant expenditure, including by way of engagement with relevant regulators.
The Board fully supported the extensive review of PT Beraus financial position undertaken by the new management of PT Berau notwithstanding that it resulted in the delay in publication of this Annual Report and Accounts and the suspension of Bumi plc shares from trading.
However, the Board is unanimous in its view that this was the right approach to ensure a reliable set of accounts as a basis for restoring investor confidence in the Company.
Accountability and effectiveness The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups governance framework and system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investments.
In line with this responsibility the Board has established a system of internal control within the Group which includes financial, operational and compliance controls, risk management procedures and a review of their effectiveness at least annually.
In October 2012 the Company recruited a Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk bringing in house expertise in this critical area.
The Board has delegated its responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of internal control and risk management to the Audit Committee.
The results of the Audit Committees work were reported to and considered by the Board, which retains responsibility for this disclosure on internal control in the Annual Report.
Whilst the Audit Committee is responsible for oversight of the effectiveness of the risk management systems, accountability for identifying and managing risks rests with the Board and the CEO supported by executive management.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, the Committee, acting for the Board, considers all aspects of risk and then assesses whether the key controls put in place by management to mitigate each risk are working effectively.
In this regard the Committee also receives regular reports from internal audit regarding the Companys risk management and internal control systems.
The Committee continually seeks to further embed risk management into the Groups operations.
During the year under review it made changes to the underlying risk management system to make it fit more closely with the needs of the business and therefore to make it more effective in future by, for example, taking more direct contributions from operational management rather than working through standalone risk committees and simplifying the risk scoring mechanisms so that more attention is given to the management of risk, per se, with less time on the workings of the scoring mechanism.
This should ensure that the risk management systems and processes are recognised as being directly relevant to, and are used in, managing the business.
A summary of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group is set out on pages 25 to 27.
In assessing the effectiveness of internal control, the Audit Committee considers that no system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Instead the Group operates a system which is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks to which it is exposed, and give the Board assurance that any problems are identified and dealt with appropriately.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 34 Governance Report continued The Boards review of internal control effectiveness excludes PT Bumi as the management of the Company does not have the ability to dictate or modify the internal controls of PT Bumi and therefore can only recommend that local management adopts the Groups governance framework where relevant and appropriate.
As stated above, the Board concluded that it was no longer able to exert significant influence over PT Bumi and re-classified PT Bumi from an associate to an investment with effect from 30 September 2012.
In 2011 the Board developed a governance framework and system of internal controls and continued to work to have this adopted and applied across the Group, respecting the fact that PT Berau is a listed public company in Indonesia with its own governance obligations.
The Boards review of the effectiveness of its system of internal controls revealed that former PT Berau directors had not fully complied with certain Group policies, particularly with regard to recognising matters reserved for the Board, complying with delegated authorities and disclosing related party transactions.
In addition to commissioning extensive reviews and the establishment of the Investigation Committee in September 2012 followed by the establishment of the Litigation Committee in January 2013, the following actions have been taken or are planned to address the issues that have been identified.
On 31 December 2012 the Board appointed Nick von Schirnding as the first unaffiliated CEO of the Group: On 7 March 2013, at the general meeting of PT Berau, Eko Budianto replaced Rosan Roeslani as the President Director of PT Berau, joined the Bumi plc executive committee and has since installed a new management team at PT Berau: At the AGM of PT Berau to be held on 29 June 2013, the Company will be proposing that Nick von Schirnding be appointed to the Board of PT Berau as a Commissioner the Indonesian equivalent of a non-executive director in the UK : and following the completion of the extensive review of PT Beraus financial position, we will be further enhancing our controls as follows: Further aligning the governance framework within PT Berau and its subsidiary companies with the framework approved by the Bumi plc Board and ensuring that policies and procedures that support this framework are fully implemented and effective.
Increasing the more direct exercise of parent company control, while remaining compliant with local regulations, through Bumi plcs executive committee which will also receive regular reports on the effectiveness of our internal control and risk management systems from Internal Audit.
Reviewing our organisational structure to ensure the appropriate resources and skills are more effectively deployed throughout the Group and in particular enhancing key controls over the financial reporting procedures in the Group.
In any case, where the commercial terms of contracts are not in the best interests of the Group, we will seek to amend or cancel them.
Taking the lessons learnt from the review, this exercise will be used to enhance the controls regarding related party transactions to ensure that they are disclosed on a timely and comprehensive basis to the Conflicts Committee.
Enhancing the Groups investment appraisal procedures in relation to large capital projects and other significant expenditure programmes such as community development and access to land to support mine expansion.
Relations with shareholders Through this Annual Report and, as required, through other periodic financial statements and announcements issued during the year in question the Board is committed to providing shareholders with a clear assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
Statements regarding the status of the Company as a going concern and the Directors responsibilities for reporting the financial statements can be found on pages 16 and 59, respectively.
The Board supports the objectives of the UK Stewardship Code and welcomes opportunities to engage constructively with shareholders.
The Board also recognises the importance of maintaining an on-going relationship with the Companys shareholders based on frequent and purposeful dialogue.
During 2012, a number of meetings with institutional shareholders were held both in the UK and internationally by the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and SID, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and the Group Head of Communications and Investor Relations to ensure that the investor community received a balanced and comprehensive view of the Groups performance and the issues faced by it.
Following the receipt of notice from Mr Rothschild in January 2013 requisitioning a General Meeting of the Company, there was extensive communication between the Company and its shareholders as a result of which 19 out of the 22 resolutions proposed by Mr Rothschild were defeated and the current Board was mandated to pursue its declared strategy of completing the Proposed Separation.
The Board monitors the views of shareholders by way of a report at every Board meeting, covering investor feedback as well as analysts and brokers reports and briefings, and a summary of the main movements in shareholdings.
The Chairman and Deputy Chairman and SID remain available to meet shareholders to discuss any issues or concerns.
Shareholders are kept informed of the progress and performance of the Group through the Annual Report, half year results, production reports, interim management statements, and the AGM.
This information and other significant announcements of the Group are released to the London Stock Exchange and are available on www.
The Companys AGM will be held on 26 June 2013.
This will provide all shareholders with the opportunity to vote on the resolutions put to shareholders and, for those shareholders who are able to attend, to ask questions of the Board of Directors, including the Chairmen of the Committees.
The AGM Notice will be sent to shareholders in a separate document and the result of the AGM voting on all resolutions will be published on the Companys website.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 35
