Governance Audit Committee report Year in review The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual During the period under review, the Audit Committee completed and half-year financial statements remains with the Board.
The Board its cycle of work in line with the agreed calendar of items for did not request the Audit Committee to advise as to whether or not consideration, the UK Corporate Governance Code and other the annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December regulatory requirements.
This included oversight of the Groups 2012, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and complete external reporting cycle, its internal assurance functions provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the and responsibility for the reappointment of both internal and Companys performance, business model and strategy.
A fuller list of the Committees activities is included later in this report.
In addition to its routine annual activities, during the year the Committee also identied topics of focus for review.
These largely The Audit Committee combines its regular annual programme of related to key features of the Groups operating model, areas of work with specic reviews of topics of particular interest that are internal or external change or regulatory focus.
The main topics determined by the Committee on a rolling basis throughout the year.
covered during 2012 were: This process helps deepen the Committees understanding of the business and its control environment and also supports the objective the Groups processes for the management of investment risk: of raising awareness in the business of the Committees activities and the suitability processes and procedures for the Groups private increase its exposure to key management at all levels across the clients: Group.
The topics covered in 2012 are described further below.
the Groups plans in the event of a Eurozone currency breakup: the processes for managing the Groups major outsourced In its formal annual review of its effectiveness during 2012, the contracts: Committee concluded that it had carried out its duties in an out of ofce dealing arrangements: effective manner and had built on the findings of its effectiveness the controls in place to ensure the Groups compliance with review in 2011.
Enhancements were identied for 2013 and beyond regulation on Treating Customers Fairly and to govern the Groups to ensure an effective process is adopted for reviewing topics of product development: and interest during the year, and to establish further an awareness of the the Groups readiness to meet the business change requirements importance of the Audit Committees activities within the business.
resulting from the Retail Distribution Review regulation.
The Committee also reviewed its terms of reference and associated meeting procedures and identied some minor improvements to be The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys made as well as updating them to reect the revised version of the website and the Chairman of the Committee will be available at the UK Corporate Governance Code published on 28 September 2012.
Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Summary of the Committees work during the year The Audit Committees role is to assist the Board in discharging its Meetings of the Committee responsibilities by: The work cycle agreed by the Audit Committee requires it to meet at least four times a year to carry out its routine work and it meets overseeing the Groups financial reporting processes: otherwise as necessary.
While only members of the Committee have reviewing the Groups internal controls and risk management the right to attend Committee meetings, representatives of the systems: Groups external and internal auditors, the Chief Financial officer, the reviewing the external and internal audit work plans, their findings Chief Operating officer, the Compliance Director, the Head of and their effectiveness: and Operational Risk and other relevant members of the senior overseeing the appointment, remuneration, independence and management team as appropriate, are usually required to attend all performance of the Groups internal and external auditors.
routine meetings and unless otherwise specically determined ad hoc meetings of the Committee.
In addition, the Group Chief In fullling this role, during 2012 the Audit Committee reviewed: Executive, the Chief Investment officer and the Distribution and Strategy Director are invited to attend all, or relevant parts, of the the critical accounting policies, financial reporting issues and meetings of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Board has a judgements, including going concern, made in relation to the standing invitation to attend all Committee meetings.
As detailed annual and half-year financial statements, together with the within the Corporate Governance report, the Committee held six reports on them from the external auditors.
The main areas of meetings during the period under review with two of those meetings judgement identied by the Committee on which the Committee being single agenda items concerning a proposed trading update and reviewed and satisfied itself with the specic supporting work Interim Management Statement respectively.
The Committee also underpinning the judgements were: met with the internal and external auditors without Jupiter management present.
assessing the potential for impairment of goodwill, acquired intangibles and available for sale assets: and The current Audit Committee members are Liz Airey Chairman, the valuation of accrued income, accrued expenses and share Jon Little and Lorraine Trainer, all of whom have been identied based payments: as independent non-executive Directors.
All the members of the Interim Management Statements and trading updates prior to Committee whose proles, provided earlier, provide further their release: details of their qualications are considered as being appropriately the effectiveness of the internal control, regulatory compliance experienced and qualied to full their duties.
Liz Airey is the and risk management environments in light of reports thereon Chairman and is considered by the Board to have recent and from internal audit and the management: and relevant financial experience.
the Groups ICAAP, prior to its submission to the Board.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 55 Audit Committee report continued Internal audit function iii client money audit and client money and assets training: Ernst & Young LLP were appointed to provide the Groups internal iv sign-offs on bank lending certicates: and v pensions and audit function in the second half of 2008.
During the period under remuneration advice.
The Committee is satisfied that the external review, the Audit Committee reviewed the performance and auditors were best placed to provide these services because of their effectiveness of the internal auditors.
The current internal audit plan familiarity with the relevant areas of Jupiters business and that the runs until December 2013, in advance of which date the Committee arrangements in place between Jupiter and the external auditors are will consider the continued appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as sufficient to ensure that  LLPs objectivity the Groups internal auditors.
and independence have been safeguarded.
The internal auditors report directly to the Audit Committee and, The policy referred to in the preceding paragraph provides that in addition to submitting status papers for each Committee meeting, certain types of non-audit services are pre-approved, whilst others provide the Committee members with copies of any individual, are prohibited and not permitted under any circumstances the department specic reports completed between meetings.
The prohibited services being those where the associated threats to Committee works with the internal auditors to help ensure that its auditor independence are considered unacceptable.
Those services work is embedded in the business, as well as co-ordinated with that which are pre-approved are those in relation to which the threats of the external auditors.
to auditor independence are considered low but, nonetheless, still need the Committees approval if the expected fee exceeds 50,000.
The Committee continues to review the effectiveness of the internal Any proposed services which are neither pre-approved nor audit function on an annual basis, and is currently of the view that prohibited need to be approved by the Committee in advance and outsourcing this to a specialist independent provider is appropriate in such circumstances, the Committee will need to be persuaded and helps to ensure that the function is adequately resourced.
that it is in Jupiters best interests for the external auditors to be appointed and that the use of the external auditors will not impair External auditors their independence and objectivity.
In its reports to the Board The Groups external auditors remain  LLP, in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the external who were appointed as such in 2001 since which date no tender has auditors, the Committee has not identied any matters in respect been conducted for this work.
Following the recent change in the of which it considers that action or improvement is needed.
UK Corporate Governance Code, requiring FTSE 350 companies to put their external audit out to tender every ten years or explain why Based on the satisfactory conclusions of the work described above they have not, the Committee anticipates that it will conduct a carried out by the Committee to assess the performance of the tender for the external audit in line with the guidance on transitional auditors and safeguard their independence, the Committee arrangements set out by the Financial Reporting Council.
considers that it is in the best interests of the Group that  LLP continue to act as the Groups auditors During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed and approved the and has recommended this to the Board.
Accordingly, a resolution terms of engagement and the proposed audit fee for the 2012 audit.
will be proposed to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting In addition, in line with its annual work cycle, a full review of the that they be reappointed as the Groups external auditors for 2013. effectiveness of the external auditors was carried out by the Committee following the 2011 audit, and as part of the process the Smith guidelines were followed in looking at the following four areas of external auditor performance: i qualication: ii expertise and resources: iii effectiveness: and iv independence.
As a result of the review, the Committee is satisfied that  LLP have the necessary qualication, expertise, resources and Liz Airey independence to perform the Jupiter audit.
Accordingly, although Chairman of the Audit Committee this is always kept under review and other than in respect of the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Jupiters internal auditors there 27 February 2013 are no contractual obligations restricting Jupiters choice of external auditor, the Committee has not considered it necessary to instigate any competitive tender for the audit work.
In conjunction with the Committee, the Company has developed and implemented a policy to safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditors.
This policy is reviewed regularly and sets out certain disclosure requirements by the external auditors to the Committee, restrictions on the employment of the external auditors former employees, partner rotation and procedures for the approval of non-audit services provided by the auditors.
The Committee now receives a regular report setting out the non-audit services provided by the external auditors during the year and the fees charged: an analysis of fees paid in respect of audit and non-audit-services provided by  LLP is provided within the administrative services note of the financial statements.
During the period under review, the majority of non-audit fees paid to the external auditors came from five main pieces of work: i the half yearly review: ii the Jupiter Report on Controls in accordance with ISAE 3402 together with AAF 01 06: 56 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
