Corporate governance report Jupiters ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
"The Board The corporate governance rules that applied to the Company during Role the year are contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as The Board is responsible for the leadership and success of the adopted by the Financial Reporting Council ""FRC"" in June 2010 Company."
"The Board has ultimate responsibility for setting the the ""Code"" www."
The Financial Services overall strategy and long-term direction of the Company.
It has a Authority's Listing rules require the Company to set out how it formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision which include, has applied the Main Principles of the Code and explain any but are not limited to: non-compliance.
We have also considered the new edition of the code, published in September 2012, applicable for the 2013 financial the Group's long-term commercial objectives and strategy: year, and are working to ensure compliance with its provisions during major acquisitions, disposals and investments: the forthcoming financial year.
the Group's annual and interim reports and financial statements: interim dividend and recommendation of final dividend: The report, including the reports from the Audit Committee, annual budgets and forecast updates: Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee, describes significant capital expenditure and or borrowings: and how the Board has applied the principles of the Code during the effectiveness of internal controls.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and Statement of Compliance there is a clear division of responsibilities between the two roles.
Throughout the year, the Company has applied the Main Principles The Chairman is primarily responsible for leading the Board, ensuring and complied with the provisions of the Code, with the following its effectiveness and setting its agenda, whereas the Chief Executive exceptions: is responsible for the execution of strategy and day-to-day management of the Companys business.
Certain responsibilities are the Code recommends that at least half the members of the delegated to Board committees which assist the Board in carrying Board excluding the Chairman should comprise non-executive out its functions.
Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
The Board currently consists of eleven members, being four executive and Beneath the Board there is in place a clear and appropriate seven non-executive Directors, four of whom excluding the apportionment of responsibilities amongst the executive Directors Chairman are regarded as independent.
The Board does not and senior managers so that the business can be effectively managed consider Richard I. Morris, Jr. and Michael Wilson to be and monitored.
1.1 of the Code: the Code recommends that non-executive Directors should be Board balance and independence appointed for specified terms.
However, Richard I. Morris, Jr. and The Board is made up of eleven members, comprising the Chairman, Michael Wilson, who were both nominated by TA Associates, L. P. four executive Directors and six other non-executive Directors.
have been appointed as non-executive Directors of the Company Maarten Slendebroek was appointed as an executive Director on for indefinite periods, subject to three months notice of 4 September 2012.
Four members of the Board Liz Airey, Jon Little, termination by either the Company or the non-executive Director: Lorraine Trainer and Matteo Dante Perruccio are free of any the Code recommends that the Board should establish a relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of Remuneration Committee of at least three independent nontheir independent judgement and have been identied as executive Directors.
Following the appointment of Liz Airey on independent, as was the Chairman on appointment, for the purposes 24 April 2012 and Michael Wilson stepping down as a member of of the Code.
Liz Airey is the Senior Independent Director and, as the Committee on the same date, the Remuneration Committee such, is available to shareholders in appropriate circumstances.
comprised three independent non-executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board and therefore became compliant with Richard I. Morris, Jr. and Michael Wilson, each of whom was the Code from that date : and nominated by TA Associates, L. P. which held 19.0 per cent.
of the the Code recommends that the Board should establish a Company's issued share capital as at 18 February 2013 are the only Nomination Committee the majority of which should be non-executive Directors who do not meet the criteria of independent non-executive Directors.
Following the appointment independence set out in the Code.
of Lorraine Trainer on 24 April 2012 and Michael Wilson stepping down as a member of the Committee on the same date, the The Board considers each of its non-executive Directors to be Nomination Committee comprised two independent nonindependent in both character and judgement and no one individual executive Directors and the Chairman and therefore became or group of individuals dominates the Boards decision making.
The compliant with the Code from that date.
non-executive Directors constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy, and bring strong independent judgement, Where the Company has not complied with the Code, the Board knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
considers that it is not practical to do so, given the provisions of the Relationship Agreement between the Company and TA Associates, Diversity L. P. as summarised in the Directors' Report.
It is seen as a prerequisite that each member of the Board must have the skills, experience and character that will enable him or her to contribute individually, and as part of the Board team, to the effectiveness of the Board and the success of the Company.
Subject to that overriding principle, diversity of background, experience and approach, including gender diversity, amongst Board members is of great value, and it is the Boards settled policy to give careful 34 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Governance consideration to issues of overall Board balance and diversity in Conicts of interest making new appointments to the Board.
Women Directors currently The Company's Articles of Association permit the Board to consider constitute just under 20 per cent.
Subject to overriding and, if thought t, to authorise situations where a Director has a principles and other factors, the Board will aim to maintain female conict, or potential conict, of interest in relation to the Group.
representation on the Board at least at the current level, and The Board has established a formal system whereby conicts, increase the level if appropriate candidates are available when Board and potential conicts, can be recorded by each Director and, vacancies arise.
A copy of the full statement on Board Diversity is if appropriate, authorised by the Board.
Conicts of interest are available at www.
included as an agenda item at each Board meeting.
When authorising conicts or potential conicts of interest, the Director concerned Operation of the Board and meeting attendance is required not to take part in the Boards decision making.
NonThe Board meets regularly during the year, as well as on an ad hoc conicted Directors are required to act in a way they consider would basis as necessary.
A rolling 12-month programme of items for be in the best interests of the Company and most likely to promote discussion by the Board is prepared to ensure that all key issues and the success of the Company.
These procedures on conicts of statutory matters are considered during the year.
The Board held interest have been followed throughout the year and the Board eight scheduled meetings during the year.
considers that they have operated effectively.
To enable the Board to function effectively and to assist Directors in Board Committees discharging their responsibilities, a comprehensive set of papers is Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees provided for Board and Committee meetings.
These include regular The Board has established a committee structure to assist in business progress reports, budgets, financial statements and the discharge of its responsibilities.
Details of each of the Audit, shareholder information.
In addition, non-executive Directors meet Remuneration and Nomination Committees, and the members, with senior management on a regular basis.
The Company Secretary roles and activities thereof, are detailed in separate reports.
Each manages the provision of information to the Board, in consultation Committee reports to, and has terms of reference approved by, the with the Chairman and Chief Executive.
He facilitates the induction Board.
The minutes of the Committee meetings, where appropriate, of new Directors and assists with their personal development as are circulated to, and reviewed by, the Board.
He also seeks to ensure Board procedures are complied with, that applicable rules and regulations are followed and reports The current members of the Audit Committee are Liz Airey, Jon Little to the Chairman on matters of corporate governance.
and Lorraine Trainer, all being independent non-executive Directors.
Liz Airey is Chairman of the Committee.
The attendance of the The Board requires all Directors to devote sufficient time to their individual Committee members at Audit Committee meetings duties and to use their best endeavours to attend meetings.
The in 2012 is detailed in Table 1. terms of appointment of the non-executive Directors require a commitment to the business of up to 30 days a year, excluding any The Remuneration Committee comprises four non-executive additional days when chairing a committee of the Board.
The Directors, namely Lorraine Trainer, Matteo Dante Perruccio, attendance of each Director at scheduled Board meetings and Jamie Dundas, the Chairman of the Board, and Liz Airey, who was Committee meetings in 2012 is detailed in Table 1.
The Chairman appointed on 24 April 2012 to replace Michael Wilson who stepped held two meetings during the year with the non-executive Directors down on that date.
The attendance of the individual Committee without the executive Directors present.
members at Remuneration Committee meetings in 2012 is detailed in Table 1.
Number of meetings Table 1 Board 8 Audit 6 Remuneration 4 Nomination 5 Jamie Dundas 1 Liz Airey Edward Bonham Carter John Chatfeild-Roberts Philip Johnson Jon Little Richard I. Morris, Jr. Matteo Dante Perruccio 2 Maarten Slendebroek 3 Lorraine Trainer 4 Michael Wilson Meetings eligible to attend Meetings not attended 1 Appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 24 April 2012 2 Appointed to the Board on 4 September 2012 3 Appointed as a member of the Nomination Committee on 24 April 2012 4 Stepped down as Remuneration and Nomination Committee member on 24 April 2012 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 35 Corporate governance report continued The Nomination Committee comprises three non-executive In 2012, the Board conducted an internal evaluation of its Directors, namely Jamie Dundas, Liz Airey and Lorraine Trainer, effectiveness and of the principal Board Committees using an who was appointed on 24 April 2012 to replace Michael Wilson internal questionnaire.
The questionnaire covered a number of areas who stepped down on that date.
The attendance of the individual including Board communication, the Board programme and agenda Committee members at Nomination Committee meetings in 2012 content.
The responses were analysed and the principal findings is detailed in Table 1. considered by the Board.
The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and With regard to the performance of individual Directors, relevant Nomination Committees are available on the Companys website input from the Chairman's meetings with individual non-executive www.
Directors was fed in to the review by the Nomination Committee.
The Chairmans performance was reviewed by non-executive Board effectiveness Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director and took into Appointments account the views of the executive Directors.
These processes fully There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the supported the recommendations that all Directors should be appointment of new Directors to the Board.
Candidates are proposed for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
identied and selected on merit against objective criteria, and with due regard to the benets of diversity on the Board, including Succession planning and Board appointments gender.
This process was followed during the recruitment of Maarten The Nomination Committee is responsible for both executive and Slendebroek, as described in the Nomination Committee report.
non-executive Director succession planning and recommends new appointments to the Board.
When making Board appointments, the Induction and development Board seeks to ensure that there is a diverse range of skills, On appointment, Directors are given a full, formal and tailored background and experience, including industry experience.
introduction to the business, including meetings with senior management and advisers.
The Chairman is responsible for Director re-election ensuring that induction and training programmes are provided.
All Directors appointed by the Board are required by the Companys Specic training requirements of Directors are met either directly Articles of Association and the Code to be elected by shareholders or by the Company through legal regulatory updates.
Nonat the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment by executive Directors also have access to externally run programmes.
Maarten Slendebroek will seek election at the Annual Individual Directors are also expected to take responsibility General Meeting having been appointed to the Board during the for identifying their training needs and take steps to ensure that year.
In addition, and in accordance with the Code, all the remaining they are adequately informed about the Company and their Directors will seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman regularly reviews and Following the evaluation described above, the Chairman believes agrees with each Director his or her training and development needs.
that the individuals' performance continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to their roles and that their respective Directors have access to independent professional advice at the skills complement each other to enhance the overall operation of Companys expense where they judge this to be necessary to discharge the Board.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible Shareholder relations to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with, Communication with shareholders is given a high priority and the and to the Chairman on matters of corporate governance.
Company undertakes a regular dialogue with major shareholders, fund managers and analysts.
The Chief Executive and the Chief Evaluation Financial officer meet with major shareholders, as appropriate, The Board recognises that a continuous and constructively critical during the course of the year, in particular following the evaluation of its performance is an important component of the announcement of the interim and year-end financial results.
The Chairman stands ready to maintain a dialogue with shareholders on strategy, corporate governance and Directors remuneration, In 2011, the Board commissioned an externally facilitated review as required, and has attended post results meetings with a number of its own effectiveness.
Several themes for improvement emerged of shareholders as part of the process of ensuring that good from the review, including maximising the effectiveness of the channels of communication are in place, and in order to maintain annual strategy development process, alignment between executive an understanding of the views of the major shareholders about risk management and Board approved risk appetite, and Board the Company.
involvement in succession planning and talent management.
An action plan based on the findings was implemented and completed during 2012.
36 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Governance Presentations to analysts are simultaneously posted on the Companys website at www.
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet shareholders on request if they have concerns that contact through the normal channel or communication through the Chairman has failed to resolve, or for which such a contact is inappropriate.
The Directors receive a report at Board meetings giving information on the changes in shareholders and any feedback from the Companys brokers and investors.
The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an opportunity to communicate with, and answer questions from, private and institutional shareholders and the Board will be available at the meeting for shareholders to ask questions.
The Chairman of each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 37
