Governance Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committee comprises Jamie Dundas, Liz Airey and The Committee continued its review of executive succession Lorraine Trainer appointed 24 April 2012.
Michael Wilson stepped planning and the processes supporting this.
During 2012, this covered down as a Committee member on 24 April 2012.
Jamie Dundas is the both Executive Committee posts and senior management roles.
The Chairman of the Committee.
Other than Lorraine Trainer, all other Committee continued to work with the Chief Executive and HR current members served on the Committee throughout the year.
leadership to bring additional rigour to this agenda.
This is linked to The Committee has formal terms of reference which are available the Boards involvement in considering the development of a more for inspection on the Companys website www.
The Committees responsibilities include: Other activities during the year included reviews of this report for inclusion in the Annual Report and Accounts, the Committees reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and performance, composition and terms of reference, Directors making recommendations to the Board with regard to any conicts of interest and the time spent on Company business changes: by non-executive Directors.
Details of attendance at Committee considering succession planning for Directors and other senior meetings are set out in the Corporate governance report.
executives: identifying and nominating, for approval by the Board, candidates The Committee formally reports to the Board on its proceedings to ll Board vacancies as and when they arise: and will make recommendations where it deems appropriate on evaluating the balance and skills, knowledge and experience on any area within its remit where action or improvement is needed.
the Board and identifying the capabilities required for a particular appointment: and keeping under review the leadership needs of the Group, both executive and non-executive, with a view to the Group's continued ability to compete effectively in the market place.
During 2012, the Nomination Committee met formally on five occasions.
The Committee has maintained a focus on the structure, size and composition of the Board on a rolling basis during the year.
The Committee led the search for, and appointment of, an additional Jamie Dundas executive director to ll the position of Distribution and Strategy Chairman Director.
Following a thorough search using external headhunters, the Committee recommended that the Board should appoint 27 February 2013 Maarten Slendebroek, and he subsequently joined the Board on 4 September 2012.
As part of the Board effectiveness review, and following conversations between the Chairman and each individual Director, the Committee has reviewed the performance of all Directors except the Chairman, whose performance review was led by the Senior Independent Director and has recommended to the Board that all Directors should be proposed by the Board for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 57
