CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION t the Chairman is viewed by investors as the ultimate steward of the Bunzls corporate governance framework is designed to facilitate effective, business and the guardian of the interests of all the shareholders.
entrepreneurial and prudent management that can safeguard shareholders t the Chairman: interests and sustain the success of the Company over the longer term.
Inorder to achieve this the Company is committed to high standards of takes overall responsibility for the composition and capability corporate governance.
The UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the of the Board and its Committees: Financial Reporting Council in 2010 the Code contains broad principles consults regularly with the Chief Executive and is available on a together with more specic provisions which set out standards of good exible basis to provide advice, counsel and support to the Chief practice in relation to Board leadership and effectiveness, accountability, Executive: and remuneration and relations with shareholders.
This report describes howthese principles have been applied by the Company during the year ensures corporate governance is conducted in accordance with ended 31 December 2012.
The Company confirms that it has complied current best practice, as appropriate to the Group.
throughout 2012 with the provisions of the Code, a copy of which is available at www.
t the Chief Executive: manages the executive directors and the Groups management BOARD COMPOSITION andday-to-day activities: As at 31 December 2012 the Board was made up of eight members prepares and presents to the Board the strategy for growth in comprising a Chairman, a Chief Executive, two other executive directors shareholder value: and four non-executive directors.
As at the date of this report, the Board was made up of nine members following the appointment of Jean-Charles sets the operating plans and budgets required to deliver the Pauze as a non-executive director with effect from 1 January 2013. agreedstrategy: Asannounced in December 2012, an additional non-executive director, Meinie Oldersma, will join the Board on 1 April 2013 and Ulrich Wolters ensures that the Group has in place appropriate risk management will retire from the Board following the Companys Annual General Meeting and control mechanisms: and on 17 April 2013.
Brief biographical details of the directors are given on communicates with the Companys shareholders and analysts on page 32.
None of the Companys non-executive directors had any aday-to-day basis as necessary subject to an overview of such previous connection with the Company or its executive directors on matters by the Chairman.
appointment tothe Board and all of them are considered by both the Board and the criteria set out in the Code to be independent.
The The Chief Executive is also the designated member of the Board Chairman and each ofthe non-executive directors have a breadth of responsible for environmental, social and governance matters and strategic, management and financial experience gained in each of their reports to the Board in relation to such matters.
own elds in a range of multinational businesses.
In accordance with the terms of the Code, with the exception of Ulrich Wolters who retires at the Peter Johnson is the senior independent director and is available to conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, each of the directors will be shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal subject to re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed toresolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
THE ROLE OF THE BOARD To ensure directors maintain overall control over strategic, financial The Board has appointed Audit, Remuneration and Nomination andoperational and compliance issues, the Board meets regularly Committees all of which comply with the provisions of the Code and play throughout the year and has formally adopted a schedule of matters an important governance role through the detailed work they carry out to which are required to be brought to it for decision.
Key aspects of the full the responsibilities delegated to them.
Brieng papers are prepared Boards role include: and circulated to Committee members in advance of each meeting and, inrespect of the Audit Committee, made available to the other directors.
t setting the Groups strategic aims and ensuring that the Company Further information relating to the Board Committees is set out below.
has the necessary capabilities to deliver the Groups strategy: INFORMATION AND SUPPORT t reviewing the Groups operating performance and approving the Board agendas are set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Groupsnancial results: Executive and with the assistance of the Company Secretary, who maintains a rolling programme of items for discussion by the Board to t reviewing and approving larger capital expenditure and acquisition ensure that all matters reserved for the Board and other key issues are divestment proposals and material increases to borrowing and considered at the appropriate time.
To enable informed decision making, loanfacilities: and brieng papers are prepared and circulated to directors approximately oneweek before the scheduled Board meeting.
All Directors have access t overseeing the Groups risk management and internal controls to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is tasked with processes and procedures.
ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and the Board is fully briefed on relevant legislative, regulatory and corporate governance There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and developments.
Directors may also take independent professional advice the Chief Executive which is set out in writing and has been agreed by atthe Companys expense where they judge this to be necessary in the the Board and encompasses the following parameters: furtherance of their duties to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
t the primary job of the Chairman is to be responsible for the leadership The Board meets formally at least eight times a year and the Board of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role calendar is planned to ensure that the directors discuss a wide range of while the Chief Executive is responsible for the leadership and the topics throughout the year.
Normally at least two Board meetings a year operational and performance management of the Company within the strategy agreed by the Board.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED are held at or near Group locations in the UK and overseas where the The Committees terms of reference, which were reviewed and revised directors have the opportunity to meet and interact with senior executives bythe Board during the year to take account of the recent changes to the from different businesses within the Groups portfolio as well as observe Code which will apply to the 2013 financial year, are available on the the operations in situ.
During 2012 a number of the Groups senior Companys website, www.
executives made presentations to the Board about the businesses forwhich they are responsible.
These included presentations from the In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent access management of the cleaning and safety, non-food retail and hospitality to the services of the Companys internal audit function and to the external businesses in the UK and the Groups operations in the Netherlands and auditor and may obtain outside professional advice as necessary.
Both the Denmark as well as operational reviews by the business area management Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor have direct access to the in North America and Continental Europe.
Chairman of the Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
In addition to routine Board meetings, the directors meet annually to Activities review and discuss the Groups overall strategy.
As part of this process, The Committee Chairman holds preparatory meetings with the Companys presentations are made by the Chief Executive and the heads of each of senior management and, when appropriate, the Head of Internal Audit the business areas together with the Director of Corporate Development.
and the external auditor prior to Committee meetings to discuss the The Board also oversees the process for reviewing any potential conicts itemsto be considered at the Committee meetings.
In addition, separate of interest which may arise in relation to each member of the Board and discussions are held between the Committee and the Head of Internal this process was carried out satisfactorily during the year.
Audit and the external auditor without management present.
The Committee Chairman also attends the Annual General Meeting to respond All new directors receive a tailored induction on joining the Board, to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees including meetings with senior management and visits to some of the activities.
The Committee met on four occasions during the year and Groups locations.
They also receive a detailed information pack which members attendance at those meetings is set out in the table on page 36. includes details of directors duties and responsibilities, procedures for dealing in Bunzls shares and a number of other governance related During the year its activities included: issues.
Directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses andtheir markets and the changes to the competitive and regulatory t receiving and considering reports from the external auditor in relation environments in which they operate.
tothe half year and annual financial statements: Training and development needs of the Board are kept under review and t reviewing the half year and annual financial reports and the formal directors attend external courses where it is considered appropriate for announcements relating thereto: them to do so.
t receiving and considering reports from the Head of Internal Audit AUDIT COMMITTEE inrelation to the work undertaken by the internal audit function and Composition reviewing and approving the internal audit work programme for the year: The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive directors and is chaired by David Sleath who is considered by the Board t reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls tohave recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
and the assurance procedures relating to the Companys risk While the other directors are not members of the Committee, they management systems: normally attend meetings of the Committee by invitation together with theHead of Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditor.
t reviewing the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise The Secretary to the Committee is Paul Hussey, Company Secretary.
concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters and receiving periodic reports relating to the matters Role raised through such arrangements: The Committees principal role is to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting and auditing processes and the maintenance of sound internal t reviewing the Committees terms of reference and the Committees control and risk management systems.
In particular the Committee is effectiveness and the internal audit functions charter: responsible for: t reviewing the effectiveness of both the external auditor and the internal t monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the financial statements of the audit function following completion of detailed questionnaires by both Group and the significant reporting judgements contained in them: the Board and senior management within the Company: t reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls: t making recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment ofthe external auditor and approving the remuneration and terms of t reviewing the process for the management of risk and the assurance engagement of the auditor including the audit strategy and planning procedures over controls designed to manage key risks: process for the current financial year: t reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys relationship with the t reviewing and approving the level and type of non-audit work which the external auditors, including auditor independence, fees and provisions external auditor performs, including the fees paid for such work: and of non-audit services: t reviewing the principal tax risks applicable to the Company and the t making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment steps taken to minimise such risks.
ofthe external auditor: and Following each Committee meeting, the Committee Chairman reports t developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the anysignicant findings to the Board and copies of the minutes of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
Committee meetings are circulated to all of the directors and to the external auditor.
34 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 External auditors independence Role The Committee ensures that the external auditor remains independent of The Committees principal role is to consider, and make recommendations the Company and receives written conrmation from the external auditor to the Board concerning, the composition of the Board including as to whether it considers itself independent within the meaning of its own proposedappointees to the Board, whether to ll any vacancies that internal and the relevant regulatory and professional requirements.
Key mayarise or to change the number of Board Members.
The Committees members of the audit team rotate off the Companys audit after a specic responsibilities include: period of time.
t reviewing the structure, size and composition including the skills, In order to ensure that the objectivity and independence of the external knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and making auditor is not compromised, the Committee has also pre-approved the recommendations to the Board with regard to any proposed changes: non-audit service categories that can be provided by the external auditor and agreed monetary amounts for each service category that can be t nominating, for the approval of the Board, appropriate individuals to ll provided by them, subject to a maximum individual engagement value.
Board vacancies as and when they arise having considered candidates Certain categories of services are prohibited under the ethical standards with relevant experience from a wide range of backgrounds: and of the Accounting Practices Board.
A permitted service requires specic authorisation from the Committee or the Committee Chairman where it t succession planning, taking into account the challenges and does not fall within the pre-approved categories or where its value exceeds opportunities facing the Company and the background, skills and the maximum pre-approved individual engagement value.
Such non-audit expertise that will be required on the Board in the future, and reviewing service categories which are pre-approved principally comprise tax annually management succession planning processes in relation to the services and further assurance services relating to pre-acquisition due Companys senior executives.
diligence and other duties carried out in respect of acquisitions and disposals of businesses.
The Committee believes that given the external The Committee meets as necessary throughout the year to discharge auditors detailed knowledge of the Groups operations, its structure itsresponsibilities.
An external search consultancy is retained by the andaccounting policies and the importance of carrying out tax services Company to assess potential candidates to be considered as prospective and detailed due diligence as part of the acquisition process, it is often non-executive directors and, when appropriate, executive directors.
appropriate for this additional work to be carried out by the Companys auditor.
However other rms are also used by the Company to provide Activities non-audit services and it is the Companys policy to assess the services The Committee met on four occasions during 2012.
Members attendance required on a case by case basis to ensure that the best placed adviser at those meetings is set out in the table on page 36. isretained.
Details of the fees paid to the external auditor in 2012 in respect of the audit and for non-audit services are set out in Note 4 to The Committees main focus during the year was the process of thenancial statements.
identifying and selecting two new non-executive directors.
Having taken account of the existing skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the As part of the decision to recommend to the Board the re-appointment Board, the Committee prepared and agreed a detailed specication for ofthe external auditor, the Committee takes into account the tenure of the role and appointed an external search consultancy, Lygon Group, to theauditor in addition to the results of its review of the effectiveness of assist the Committee in the recruitment process.
Lygon Group does not theexternal auditor and considers whether there should be a full tender provide any other services to, or have any other connection with, the process.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees Company.
In particular the Committee were keen to nd successful senior choice of external auditor.
business executives from Continental Europe with extensive international management experience, preferably in the distribution or service sectors.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of its review of As potential non-executive directors, it was important that the candidates theexternal auditors activities during the year, the Committee has were able to play a supportive role to the executive management team recommended to the Board that a resolution proposing the re-appointment while at the same time provide strategic input into the Companys direction of KPMG Audit Plc as external auditor be put to shareholders at the and development.
It was also a requirement that the prospective directors forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
could provide wise counsel and independence of mind and to challenge management constructively by offering impartial, independent and REMUNERATION COMMITTEE objective advice.
All members of the Committee had the opportunity to The Remuneration Committee comprises all of the independent meet the preferred candidates before a final recommendation was made non-executive directors and is chaired by the senior independent director, to the Board.
Following a thorough process Jean-Charles Pauze and Peter Johnson.
While neither the Chairman of the Company nor the Meinie Oldersma were recommended to the Board in December 2012 ChiefExecutive are members of the Committee, they normally attend tobe appointed as independent non-executive directors.
Both these meetings by invitation except when the Committee is considering matters recommendations were unanimously approved by the Board with concerning themselves.
The Secretary to the Committee is Celia Baxter, Jean-Charles Pauze being appointed with effect from 1 January 2013 Director of Group Human Resources.
Further details of the Remuneration andMeinie Oldersma joining the Board on 1 April 2013.
Committee, the Companys remuneration policy and how it is applied are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 38 to 50.
Members The Committee also reviewed and took account of the balance of skills, attendance at the Committee meetings held during the year is set out in knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board, the time commitment the table on page 36.
The terms of reference of the Committee, which expected of the non-executive directors and the conclusions of the were reviewed and revised by the Board during the year are available on formalevaluation process which was carried out during the year when the Companys website.
considering and recommending the nomination of directors for re-election at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
In particular the Committee NOMINATION COMMITTEE reviewed the performance of Peter Johnson, who was appointed to the Composition Board in January 2006.
The Committee believes that he continues to The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman of the Company, beeffective and to demonstrate strong independence in character and who chairs the Committee, the Chief Executive and all of the non-executive judgement in the manner in which he discharges his responsibilities as a directors.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the majority of director.
Consequently the Committee is satisfied that, despite his length the members are independent non-executive directors.
The Secretary of tenure, he remains independent.
Ulrich Wolters, who was appointed tothe Committee is Paul Hussey, Company Secretary.
asa non-executive director in 2004, is retiring from the Board after the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Chief Executive presented his annual management succession plan t increasing the level of strategic oversight as part of the Boards annual to the Committee.
The Company recognises that having the right directors strategy review: and and senior management is crucial for the Groups success and it is a keytask of the Committee to ensure that the Company has a robust and t continuing the focus of the Nomination Committee on the Groups continuous succession planning process.
As part of the review this year senior executive development programmes as part of the Committees the Committee retained an external consultant to provide objective insight annual review of the management succession plan.
into the development of the Companys senior executives.
As a result of the overall performance evaluation process carried out, the As part of the review of the composition of the Board and the succession Board concluded that both it and its Committees are operating effectively.
planning process, the Committee notes the publication of the Davies Review on Women on Boards in February 2011 and the subsequent FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING amendments which have been made to the Code which will apply to the When reporting externally the Board aims to present a balanced and 2013 financial year.
Both the Board and the Committee recognise the understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Such importance of gender diversity throughout the Group.
Currently one of the assessment is set out in the business review sections of this Annual nine Board members and one of the five Executive Committee members Report.
The responsibilities of the directors in respect of the preparation of are female.
The Committee aims to have a Board with a broad range of the Group and parent company financial statements are set out on page skills, backgrounds, experience and diversity and while the Committee will 97 and the auditors report on page 98 includes a statement by the continue to follow a policy of ensuring that the best people are appointed external auditor about their reporting responsibilities.
As set out on page for the relevant roles, the Committee recognises the benets of greater 24, the directors are of the opinion that it is appropriate to continue to diversity and will continue to take account of this when considering adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
However, the primary responsibility of the Committee in selecting and recommending candidates to the Board RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL whenmaking new appointments is to ensure the strength of the Boards The directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for composition and the overriding aim is to always select and recommend identifying and managing the risks faced by the Group and for the Groups the best candidate for the position.
system of internal control relating to those risks.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve The terms of reference of the Committee, which were reviewed and business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute revised by the Board during the year to take account of the recent assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with changes to the Code, are set out on the Companys website.
Principle C. 2 of the Code and the related guidance, the Company has established the procedures necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE process for identifying, evaluating, managing and mitigating significant The following table shows the attendance in 2012 of directors at risks to the Group and for determining the nature and extent of the Boardmeetings and at meetings of the Board Committees of which significant risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
theyare members: Thedirectors confirm that such procedures have been in place for the Audit Remuneration Nomination year ended 31 December 2012 and up to the date of approval of these Board Committee Committee Committee financial statements and have been reviewed during the year.
Number of meetings 8 4 4 4 Philip Rogerson 8 4 Further information relating to how the directors maintain overall control Michael Roney 8 4 over all significant strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues Ulrich Wolters 8 4 4 4 is set out in the Role of the Board section on page 33.
Patrick Larmon 8 Peter Johnson 8444 In addition, the Board has delegated to an Executive Committee, Brian May 8 consisting of the Chief Executive, Finance Director and other functional David Sleath 8444 managers, the responsibility for identifying, evaluating and monitoring Eugenia Ulasewicz 8443 therisks facing the Group and for deciding how these are managed and toestablish a system of internal control appropriate to the business environments in which the Group operates.
The principal features of this PERFORMANCE EVALUATION system include: The Company has a formal performance evaluation process for the Board, its Committees and individual directors overseen by the Chairman.
This t a procedure for monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control includes individual discussions between the Chairman and each director system through a tiered management structure with clearly dened when their individual training and development needs are reviewed.
Led lines of responsibility and delegation of authority: by the senior independent director, the non-executive directors also meet without the Chairman present at least annually to appraise the Chairmans t clearly dened authorisation procedures for capital investment performance including a review of his other commitments to ensure that andacquisitions: he is able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge his responsibilities effectively.
The Chairman also periodically holds meetings t strategic plans and comprehensive budgets which are prepared with the non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
annually by the business areas and approved by the Board: All of these processes were carried out satisfactorily during the year.
t formal standards of business conduct including a code of ethics and In accordance with the requirements of the Code an external performance whistle blowing procedure based on honesty, integrity and fair dealing: evaluation was carried out in 2012 and the results were subsequently presented to the Board.
The facilitator of the external evaluation, Lintstock, t a well established consolidation and reporting system for the statutory does not provide any other services to, or have any other connection with, accounts and monthly management accounts: the Company.
Following the evaluation, the Board agreed to implement anumber of recommendations including: t continual investment in IT systems to ensure the production of timely and accurate management information relating to the operation of the t increasing the size of the Board by recruiting two additional Groups businesses: and non-executive directors to replace Ulrich Wolters who is due to retire following the 2013 Annual General Meeting: t detailed manuals covering Group accounting policies and policies and procedures for the Groups treasury operations.
36 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Some of the procedures carried out in order to monitor the effectiveness RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS of the internal control system and to identify, manage and mitigate The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year with the half business risk are listed below: year results announced normally at the end of August and the annual results announced normally at the end of February.
In addition the t central management holds regular meetings with business area Company publishes two interim management statements a year as management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
including a review of the significant risks affecting each of the businessareas and the policies and procedures by which these The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular meetings with risks are managed: representatives of institutional shareholders and report to the Board the views of major shareholders.
Additional forms of communication include t the Executive Committee meets twice per month and also reviews the presentations of the half year and annual results.
The Chairman and outcome of the discussions held at business area meetings on internal thesenior independent director and the other non-executive directors control and risk management issues: areavailable to meet with major shareholders on request.
The Board alsoperiodically reviews and discusses analysts and brokers reports t the Board in turn reviews the outcome of the Executive Committee andsurveys of shareholder opinions conducted by the Companys discussions on internal control and risk management issues which ownbrokers.
ensures a documented and auditable trail of accountability: The Company hosted an Investor Day for institutional investors in March t both the Executive Committee and the Board carry out an annual 2012, which included business area presentations by senior management fraud risk assessment: from North America, Continental Europe, UK & Ireland and Brazil.
Awebcast and copies of the presentations made are available on the t actual results are reviewed monthly against budget, forecasts and the Companys website.
previous year and explanations obtained for all significant variances: Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least t the Groups bank balances around the world are monitored on a weekly 20working days before the meeting.
All shareholders are encouraged basis and significant movements are reviewed centrally: toparticipate in the Annual General Meeting, are invited to ask questions atthe meeting and are given the opportunity to meet all of the directors t the internal audit department periodically reviews individual businesses informally.
Shareholders unable to attend are encouraged to vote using and procedures, makes recommendations to improve controls and theproxy card mailed to them or electronically as detailed in the Notice follows up to ensure that management implement the recommendations ofMeeting.
Shareholders are given the option to withhold their vote on made.
The internal audit departments work is determined on a risk theproxy form.
As in previous years, at the forthcoming Annual General assessment basis and their findings are reported to Group and business Meeting each of the resolutions put to the meeting will be taken on a poll area management as well as to the Audit Committee: rather than on a show of hands as directors believe that a poll is more representative of shareholders voting intentions because shareholder t the Audit Committee, which comprises all of the independent votes are counted according to the number of shares held and all votes non-executive directors of the Company, meets regularly throughout tendered are taken into account.
The results of the poll will be publicly theyear.
Further details of the work of the Committee are set out in the announced and made available on the Companys website as soon as Audit Committee report on pages 34 and 35: practicable following the Annual General Meeting.
t regular meetings are held with insurance and risk advisers to assess the On behalf of the Board risks throughout the Group: Paul Hussey t the management committee, which oversees issues relating principally Secretary to environment, health & safety, insurance and business continuity 25 February 2013 planning matters, sets relevant policies and practices and monitors their implementation: t risk assessments, safety audits and a regular review of progress against objectives established by each business area are periodically carried out: and t developments in tax, treasury and accounting are continually monitored by Group management in association with external advisers.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management in operation during 2012.
The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the financial statements.
The audit includes the review and test of the system of internal financial control and the data contained in the financial statements to the extent necessary for expressing an audit opinion on the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
