Corporate governance Dear Shareholder, Governance The Board is collectively responsible for promoting Good corporate governance is important to support the thesuccess of the Company, and is accountable to delivery of the Groups five key strategic themes and ensure shareholders for ensuring that the Company achieves long term sustainable value for our shareholders.
However itsstrategic objectives and is appropriately managed.
as a Board we believe that good governance is also about being a great company and that our role is to support and Our Board The Board currently consists of eight members the encourage the evolution of the business in ways which reect our core values of Protect, Explore and Inspire both for Chairman, the Chief Executive officer, the Chief Financial those within the Company and those with whom we connect.
officer and five independent non-executive directors.
A list ofindividual directors and their biographies is set out on page68.
The growth of the Groups business continues to be dynamic despite the current uncertain global economic and political climate.
Consequently the Boards focus during the year has The Chairman, Sir John Peace, has led the Board as been on the execution of the Groups strategy, identication Chairman since 2002.
The Chairman is responsible for and mitigation of risk, ensuring that the Groups controls and leading and managing the business of the Board and infrastructure are appropriate in the context of the Groups ensuring its effectiveness.
He sets the agenda for Board continuing growth, and that the Group attracts and retains discussions and ensures that the Board receives accurate, the right senior talent including on the Board to secure the timely and clear information, particularly in relation to the future of the Company.
He promotes an open culture which allows for debate and constructive challenge of the The Board welcomed Lord Davies report entitled Women executive directors.
We are proud of the fact that the Company is diverse and not only in terms of gender.
Diversity is at the The Chairman works collaboratively with the Chief Executive heart of our culture and brand which is characterised by a officer, Angela Ahrendts, in setting the Board agenda and democratic and meritocratic ethos.
Our Board succession ensuring any actions agreed by the Board are effectively implemented.
planning is focused on ensuring the right mix of skills and experience for the Board with due regard for the benets ofdiversity, including gender.
During the year, the Chairman maintained regular contact andmet with the Senior Independent Director and other The debate over good corporate governance continues non-executive directors outside of formal board meetings.
atanational, EU and international level.
I believe that this The Chairman also met with the non-executive directors dialogue is important and that as a global company it is without the executive directors being present.
ourresponsibility to practice high standards of corporate governance and to promote such standards wherever The Chairman is also responsible for the Companys weoperate.
performance to shareholders and has frequent discussions with the Companys main institutional shareholders.
This report sets out the Boards approach and work during the financial year 2011 12 and, together with The major commitments of the Chairman are detailed in his the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 83 to 92, biography on page 68 and have not changed during the year.
includes details ofhow we applied and complied with the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance The Senior Independent Director, Philip Bowman, Code.
The Group complied with the provisions of the Code supports the Chairman in his role and leads the non-executive throughout the year.
directors in the oversight of the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director is also available as an additional point The Board and I will endeavour to ensure the Groups of contact for shareholders.
continued success as a dynamic and well governed business over the coming year.
The Non-Executive Directors provide strong experience and independent support to the Board.
They assist in the Sir John Peace development of strategy and provide constructive challenge Chairman and support to management.
The Chief Executive officer, Angela Ahrendts, is responsible for the management of the business, developing the Groups strategic direction for consideration and approval by the Board and implementing the agreed strategy.
The Chief Executive officer is assisted by members of her senior management team who meet regularly.
Members of the senior management team are identied on page 153.
74 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 Role of the Board through discussion at Board meetings where management Developing and rening our strategy is key to our are challenged on the performance of the Group: futuresuccess.
As a Board we need to understand by evaluating the Groups progress on achieving the competitive landscape, monitor emerging trends its five strategic objectives: and and keepupdated on the Groups operations.
by monitoring, including through the Board Committees, The Company has experienced and is continuing to the significant risks facing the Group.
experience a period of considerable growth.
With this success comes a responsibility for the Board to ensure The matters reserved for the Boards decision are set wegrow in a controlled and sustainable way for our outinwriting and available on the Companys website shareholders and wider stakeholders, and that we at burberryplc.
understand the risks to achieving this objective.
Role of the Board Committees The Board is ultimately responsible for the activities of the The Board is supported in the activities set out above by Group its governance, strategy, risk management and anumber of committees including the following principal performance.
The Chief Executive officer is accountable for, committees: Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and and reports to the Board on, the performance of the business.
All the non-executive directors aremembers of each of the principal committees of the The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved Board.
The Board believes this to be appropriate as the for its decision which includes: Board remains relatively small and ensures the linkage between the work of the Committees and the Board.
the Groups business strategy: The terms of reference of each of the principal the annual budget and operating plans: committeescan be viewed on the Companys website matters materially affecting the reputation or financial atburberryplc.
position of the Group: The Committees, if they consider it necessary, can engage major capital expenditure, acquisitions and third-party consultants and independent professional advisors divestments, licensing and franchise transactions and can call upon other resources of the Group to assist them above dened thresholds: in developing their respective roles.
In addition tothe relevant the systems of corporate governance, internal control committee members and the Company Secretary, external andrisk management: advisors and, on occasion, other directorsand members of the senior management team attend committee meetings the approval of the interim and annual financial but only at the invitation of theChairmen of the Committees.
statements: and the determination of any interim dividend Set out on pages 80 to 82 are reports from the Audit and and the recommendation of the final dividend.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 83 to 92.
The Board monitors the performance of the Group: through reports from the Chief Executive officer and ChiefFinancial officer who are responsible for reporting tothe Board on the performance of the business: Board nomination remuneration chief executive audit committee committee committee officer senior risk committee management team supply chain risk global health & ethics committee committee safety committee Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 75 Corporate governance continued Highlights of Board and Committee activities The table below gives details of directors attendance at The Board has spent time on the following matters Board and Committee meetings during the financial year amongstothers during the year: ended 31 March 2012.
Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Continued evolution of the Boards oversight of the Scheduled Ad hoc strategic plan the Board participated in a two day Sir John Peace 6 6 1 1 2 2 2 2 interactive session with management on strategy.
Angela Ahrendts 6 6 1 1 2 2 Strategic updates are regularly included on the Board Philip Bowman 6 6 0 1 3 3 2 2 2 2 agenda giving the Board the opportunity to discuss Ian Carter 6 6 0 1 3 3 2 2 2 2 progress against the strategic plan and new strategic Stacey Cartwright 6 6 1 1 opportunities.
Stephanie George 6 6 1 1 3 3 2 2 2 2 Continued focus on balancing the prevailing external David Tyler 6 6 1 1 3 3 2 2 2 2 conditions and the achievement of the strategic plan and John Smith 6 6 0 1 3 3 2 2 2 2 budget objectives the Board considered the particular Any absences were due to unavoidable prior commitments.
risks which could impact on the strategy and or businessmodel.
External directorships Continued focus on the evolution of the Companys risk The Boards executive directors are permitted to hold only management systems and internal control framework, one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company.
largely through the work of the Audit Committee.
Details of the directors other directorships can be found intheir biographies on page 68.
Monitoring of policies and procedures in relation to the UKBribery Act, health and safety and governance.
Board effectiveness Continued improvement in understanding of the business, As a Board we strive to provide effective leadership that the competitive landscape and emerging trends the supports the Companys five strategic themes and accords Board engaged with senior management below Board with the Companys core values to protect, explore, and level on key areas of the business such as its digital inspire.
To do this we must remain an open, dynamic, evolution and product and licensing development.
It also connected and collaborative team.
obtained external expert perspectives on issues facing thebusiness such as the current political and economic Composition and succession outlook.
In April 2012 the Board visited Asia, one of the The non-executive directors are drawn from a wide range Companys key strategic markets, to view its operations of industries and backgrounds, including banking and and better understand the market.
financial services, hotels and hospitality, marketing, broadcast and media.
They have appropriate experience of complex Continued focus on the retention and incentivisation organisations with global reach including experience ofexecutive directors and senior management through of the Groups key markets of Europe, the Americas and thework of the Remuneration Committee.
Theirvaried yet relevant experience brings a wealth Continued consideration of Board and Committee of insightto Board discussions and important support to the composition and senior executive succession.
All the directors will stand for re-election at the upcoming Annual General Meeting on 12 July 2012.
Time allocation Each of the non-executive directors has a letter of The Board aims to continuously refresh its membership appointment which sets out the terms and conditions of to ensure that it reects the growth prole of the business.
The Chairman and the non-executive However this needs to be balanced over time to ensure that directors are expected to devote such time as is necessary it can draw on the valuable experience of its longer serving for the proper performance of their duties.
This is expected directors, particularly given the significant continuing growth to be approximately 20 days each year for basic duties.
of the business and the current volatile macro-economic TheChairman and Senior Independent Director are expected andglobal environment.
to spend additional time over and above this to discharge their added responsibilities.
In relation to Board Committee succession matters, on 22 May David Tyler resigned as Chairman of the During the year the Board held six scheduled meetings Remuneration Committee, with effect from the close and one additional meeting, including an in depth two day of the Groups upcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board spent five days Sir John Peace has also resigned as a member of the visiting Asiain April 2012.
Between meetings directors spend Committee with effect from the close of the Annual General a significant amount of time on Board and Committee related Meeting.
The Board has appointed Ian Carter as the new matters.
The Board considers that it met sufciently often Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
David Tyler toenable the directors to discharge their duties effectively.
will continue to serve as a member of the Committee.
76 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 During the recent independent investor audit as referred to the Boards role in overseeing the strategic plan was inEngagement with shareholders on page 78 below, the ratedhighly and had improved signicantly over the last view was expressed that the current Board provides a good few years: balance and support to the management team.
the increased use of informal meetings, presentations from senior management and the visit to the businesses in Asia, During the year, the Board through the Nomination were all positive developments: Committee focused on its future composition in relation toboth executive and non-executive succession planning.
the annual cycle of Board and Committee work and Itconcluded that whilst the current composition of the Board information provided was appropriate and well planned: remained appropriate, the Board should continue to build and onits relevant skills and competencies for the future.
It was Board and Committee performance in managing principal identied that the future addition of a director with experience risks was rated highly.
of operating in Asia and or Emerging Markets would be beneficial and this is something the Board will focus Following its discussion the Board agreed the following on inthecoming months.
recommendations: Diversity and inclusion whilst the current composition of the Board was The Board welcomed Lord Davies report entitled considered appropriate, the Board should plan for the next Women on Boards.
The Company is proud of the fact few years to build on its relevant skills and competencies.
that it is diverse, not only in terms of gender.
Diversity is It was identied that the future addition of a director with at the heart of the culture and brand which is characterised experience of operating in Asia and or Emerging Markets by ademocratic and meritocratic ethos.
would be beneficial: At our Group headquarters in London, 54 different nationalities the Board should continue to strengthen its contribution are represented and approximately 70% of the total and impact on overseeing strategy including by affording workforce is female.
Of the eight directors on theBoard, more opportunities throughout the year to engage with three are women including both of the executive directors.
senior management responsible for key elements of the Approximately 35% of management are female.
business and strategy: and the Board should continue to consider its approach to The Company continues to focus on its recruitment strategies assessing Board and Committee effectiveness to ensure and cultural values to ensure it recruits and retains a talented that the Groups approach to this remained meaningful workforce operating in an inclusive and diverse environment.
and reective of the unique and collaborative nature Board succession planning is focused on ensuring the right of theBoard.
mix of skills and experience for the Board with due regard forthe benets of diversity, including gender.
The non-executive directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, also considered the performance of the Chairman Evaluating our performance without the Chairman present.
They confirmed that the The Board undertakes a formal review of its performance Chairmans leadership, performance and overall contribution and that of its committees each financial year, with an external were of a high standard.
evaluation once every three years.
During the year an internally facilitated review by way of an online questionnaire Information ow and professional development was undertaken.
Feedback from the evaluation was provided The Chairman works closely with the Company Secretary in the form of a written report to the Board followed by a toensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with discussion of the outcomes, led by the Chairman.
In 2010 11 information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable an externally facilitated review of the Boards effectiveness itto effectively discharge its duties.
During the year the was facilitated by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review.
Company introduced the provision of Board papers and additional information via iPad to allow for easy and instant Consistent with Dr Longs findings last year, the review access to a wide range of information.
concluded that the Board was highly effective, the size and continuity of the Board was felt to encourage open and, The Board is kept up to date on legal, regulatory and where necessary, robust debate.
The review identied that governance matters through advice and regular papers the Board had a number of key strengths, including: fromthe Company Secretary, the General Counsel and otheradvisers.
During the year the Board was briefed the small size and open culture of the Board encouraged onboardroom diversity, various developments in narrative discussion and debate, fostered by the Chairman who andrisk reporting and executive remuneration, compliance isviewed as a strong and positive inuence and a great with the UK Bribery Act 2010, and other developments ambassador for the Group: incorporate governance reporting.
the Board operated effectively as currently composed witha diversity of skills and very good knowledge of the business and management: Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 77 Corporate governance continued The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in designing Under the Groups Articles of Association, the Board has and facilitating a tailored induction programme for new the authority to approve such situational conicts of directors and their on-going training.
The Chairman reviews interest and has adopted procedures to manage and, training needs with directors on an annual basis as part where appropriate, to approve such conicts.
granted by the Board are recorded by the Company Secretary in a register and are noted by the Board The Board have direct access to the advice and services at its nextmeeting.
of the Company Secretary and the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board A review of situational conicts which have been authorised as a whole.
Directors may also obtain, in the furtherance isundertaken by the Board annually.
Following the last of their duties, independent professional advice, if necessary, review, the Board concluded that the conicts had been at the Groups expense.
appropriately authorised and that the process for authorisation continued to operate effectively.
Re-election of directors At the Annual General Meeting in 2011, all directors offered Engagement with shareholders themselves for re-election.
Each director was re-elected The Board believes that effective leadership also involves andno director received less than 94% in favour of the maintaining an open and constructive dialogue with votescast.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2012, all of shareholders and other stakeholders, and seeks to achieve thedirectors will again retire and all will offer themselves this in various ways including at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chief Executive officer and Executive Vice President, The Board believes that each of the directors standing Chief Financial officer give live presentations to institutional forre-election continue to be effective and accordingly, shareholders and analysts immediately following the release theBoard recommends that shareholders approve the of the half and full year results which are then made available resolutions to be proposed at the 2012 Annual General on the Groups website at burberryplc.
The Groups Meeting relating to the re-election of the directors.
Investor Relations department acts as the centre forongoing communications with investors and analysts.
Board tenure The Chairman also maintains a regular dialogue with major shareholders to hear their views and discuss issues of mutualimportance and communicates their views to the other members of the Board.
The Senior Independent Director and all the other non-executive directors are available to meet with shareholders.
The Group also carried out an 0-5 years independent investor audit of its major investors through 5-10 years Makinson Cowell, a capital markets advisory rm, to gauge 10 years or above investor perception.
The balance of tenure of service of the directors is set out in Effective internal controls the diagram above.
At the time of the 2012 Annual General Meeting, Sir John Peace, Philip Bowman and David Tyler The Group has a clear and consistent strategy as reected willhave served on the Board for ten years.
The performance inits five key strategic themes.
The strategy has been of Philip Bowman and David Tyler has been subject to a developed to exploit identied opportunities through a rigorous review including with regard to their independence.
Where material risks have been The Board has concluded that they continue to provide identied within our business, the Group has implemented independent and constructive challenge to the executive anappropriate internal control environment to endeavour directors and remain effective non-executive directors.
Asdiscussed under Board Composition and Succession above, these directors bring valuable insight, experience The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system andbalance to the Boards deliberations.
of internal controls and risk management, and it discharges its duties in this area by: Managing conicts of interest All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to determining the nature and extent of the significant avoid a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct risks it is willing to take in achieving the Groups orindirect conict of interest or possible conict of interest strategic objectives: and with the Group.
ensuring that management implement effective systems ofrisk identication, assessment and mitigation.
78 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 The Audit Committee has been delegated the responsibility and budget are agreed with the Board together with dened for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
performance targets and risks to delivery.
The plan and the The Audit Committee uses information drawn from a number principal risks for delivering the strategy also form part of of different sources to carry out this review including: theBoards annual review of Group strategy.
The Audit Committee also plays a key role by reviewing the effectiveness Internal Audit provides objective assurance through of the Groups internal controls and risk management.
itsannual work plan which is approved by the Audit Committee and focuses on the principal risks identied Executive management assess risk on a regular basis inthe risk assessment and key internal controls: through the Group Risk Committee which meets at least three times per year and reports any key findings to the regular reports to the Audit Committee from executive Audit Committee.
The Group Risk Committee evaluates management and key Group support functions detailing risk through reports made to it by Internal Audit and their risk management and compliance approaches Risk Assurance and other assurance teams and and highlighting any significant issues: management committees.
The Committee benets key outcomes from discussions at the Group Risk from cross functional membership encompassing senior management of key areas such as IT, Finance, Legal, Committee: and Brand Protection, Company Secretariat, Corporate further objective assurance is provided by external auditors.
Responsibility, Human Resources, Supply Chain and a number of assurance functions.
These meetings The internal control framework has been in operation for the are attended by the Chief Financial officer and or the whole of the year under review and continues to operate up Chief Executive officer as well as the Director of Audit to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving business objectives, The executive directors also meet with senior management and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance on a monthly basis to discuss performance, operational and against material misstatement or loss.
budget issues to identify any emerging risks to achieving the strategic plan.
There are areas of the Groups business where it is necessary to take risks to achieve a satisfactory return for shareholders All internal audit activity is conducted by the Internal Audit so long as such risks reect the Boards overall appetite for team under the leadership of the Director of Audit and Risk risk.
It is the Groups objective to apply expertise to prudently Assurance, who reports to the Executive Vice President, manage rather than eliminate such risks including keeping Chief Financial officer, but also has an independent reporting them under constant review.
line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In the light of Internal Audits recommendations, management agrees and The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed implements corrective action plans, which are tracked to theassessment of risks and the Groups internal control completion by Internal Audit, with the results reported to framework and has considered the effectiveness of the executive management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
system of internal control in operation in the Group for the year covered by the Annual Report and up to the date of its As part of the Boards consideration of the principal risks approval by the Board.
The process followed by the Board facing the Group, Internal Audit and Risk Assurance facilitate inreviewing the system of internal controls accords with a risk assessment process in each key business area and the Turnbull guidance.
It also accords with the provisions global support function to review the significant risks facing of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
its operations and to record the relevant controls and any actions in place to mitigate the risks.
The materiality of the For details of the principal risks which may adversely impact risk is measured based on financial and non-financial criteria, the management of the Group and the execution of its and the probability of the risk arising is also mapped.
The growth strategies and the steps the Group takes to address detailed assessments are then consolidated to provide input these risks where they are matters within Group control, into the Group risk assessment.
This process also enables seethe Principal Risks section on pages 56 to 59.
Internal Audit and Risk Assurance to engage with senior management throughout the business on risk monitoring Managing risks andmanagement.
The Group has an integrated approach to risk management and internal controls to ensure that its review of risk is Financial reporting usedto inform the internal audit process and the design Management is responsible for establishing and ofinternal controls.
maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting.
These controls are designed to provide A detailed three year strategic plan and annual budget reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial process provides the principal metrics against which the reporting and the preparation of financial statements for performance of the Group is measured.
The strategic plan external reporting purposes.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 79 Corporate governance continued The Group has comprehensive planning, budgeting, Accountability and audit forecasting and monthly reporting processes in place.
The Board is required to present a balanced and Asummary of Group financial results supported by understandable assessment of the Groups position and commentary and performance measures is provided prospects in the Annual Report and in interim and other totheBoard each month.
The Board is satisfied that it has met this obligation.
A summary of the directors responsibilities for In relation to the preparation of the Group financial thenancial statements is set out on page 94 and includes statements, the controls in place include: astatement regarding the Groups status as a going concernas required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
a centre of expertise responsible for reviewing new The Report of the Auditors on page 95 includes a statement developments in reporting requirements and standards by the auditors concerning their reporting responsibilities.
toensure that these are reected in Group accounting policies: Report of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder, a dedicated finance governance team who are responsible for developing the Groups financial control processes and The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the integrity of procedures and implementing them across the Group: and financial information and to provide assurance to the Board a global finance structure consisting of employees with that the Companys internal controls and risk management the appropriate expertise to ensure that Group policies and systems are appropriate and regularly reviewed.
Effective management and control of the finance structure is achieved through The Committee continues to focus on ensuring that the the finance leadership team, consisting of key finance Groups systems and controls are operating effectively, are employees from the regional and corporate centre.
evolving in line with the Groups growth and are responsive the demands of the external operating environment.
The reporting process is supported by transactional and This will remain a priority for the coming year.
Reviews of the applications of controls for external reporting purposes are carried out In addition to the usual work of the Committee as set out bysenior finance management.
The results of these reviews below, during the year the Committee focused on other are considered by the Board as part of its monitoring matters, including: of the performance of controls around financial reporting.
evaluating and taking into account any movements in The Audit Committee reviews the application of financial Group risks when considering budgets and forecasts that reporting standards and any significant accounting support going concern and impairment assessments: judgements made by management.
monitoring and seeking assurance that any effects on the Groups business arising from the volatility in the economic Control environment environment including supply of credit, bad debtors and The Groups business model is based on a central design, reliance on key vendors are being closely monitored: supply chain and distribution operation to source products toglobal markets, via retail and wholesale channels.
monitoring and seeking assurance of the continual This is reected in the internal control framework which improvement of the risk and control environment includes central direction, resource allocation, oversight across the Group: and risk management of the key activities of marketing, considering Internal Audit and Risk Assurance findings inventory management, brand and technology development.
and recommendations, and monitoring management This includes central support in relation to legal, human responses and progress on implementing remedial actions: resources, information systems and financial practice.
monitoring the establishment of the Groups anti-bribery The Group has established procedures for the delegation and anti-corruption policies and procedures and the ofauthorities to ensure that approval for matters that are on-going evolution of these against best practice: and considered significant is considered at an appropriate level, considering the risks of the Groups dependency on digital either because of their value or the impact on the Group.
In technology and Group policies to mitigate these risks.
addition the Group has policies and procedures in place that are designed to support risk management across the Group.
As a Committee we are fortunate that we benefit from These authorities, policies and procedures are being kept a constructive and open relationship with management under review as the Group continues to grow.
These include and wethank them for their assistance during the year.
policies relating to treasury, the conduct of employees and third parties with which the Group conducts business Philip Bowman and prohibiting bribery and corruption, amongst others.
Chairman, Audit Committee 80 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 Committee membership External auditors The following directors served as members of the Committee The Committee oversees the work undertaken by throughout the financial year ending 31 March 2012: .
During the year the Committee met with the external auditors without members of Members Appointment Date management being present.
Philip Bowman Chairman 21 June 2002 Ian Carter 18 May 2007 Appointment and fees Stephanie George 19 May 2006 The Committee has primary responsibility for making a John Smith 2 February 2010 recommendation on the appointment, re-appointment and David Tyler 21 June 2002 removal of the external auditors.
The Committee assesses onan annual basis the qualications, expertise, resources and The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
independence of the external auditors and the effectiveness The attendance record of Committee members is recorded ofthe previous audit process.
Over the course of the year, in the table on page 76.
In addition to the scheduled theCommittee has reviewed the audit process and the quality meetings the Chairman of the Committee meets separately and experience of the audit partners engaged in the audit.
with the Chief Financial officer and the Director of Audit and Risk Assurance on a regular basis including prior The Committee also reviewed the proposed audit fee and to each meeting.
terms of engagement for the 2011 12 financial year.
Details of the fees paid to the external auditors during the financial Other regular attendees at Committee meetings include: year can be found in note 5 in the financial statements.
the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive officer, the Chief Financial officer, the Director of Audit and Risk  have remained in place as auditors Assurance, the Chief Corporate Affairs officer & General since prior to the IPO of the Company in 2002.
They were Counsel, the Company Secretary, the Senior Vice President re-appointed following an audit tender process undertaken Group Finance, the Group Financial Controller, by the Group for the 2010 11 financial year.
The external the Director of Tax and the External Auditors.
auditors are required to rotate the audit engagement partner every five years.
The current audit partner commenced The Board is satisfied that Philip Bowman as Chairman his engagement for the 2010 11 financial year and is not has recent and relevant financial experience and that subject to rotation until after the audit of the Groups financial all other Committee members have past employment statements for the 2014 15 financial year has been concluded.
experience in either finance or accounting roles or broad experience and knowledge of financial reporting and During the year, the Committee approved the international businesses.
Details of their experience re-appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement can be found in their biographies on page 68. of  as the Groups statutory auditor.
The Committee recommended to the Board that Role of the Committee it proposes to shareholders that  The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee be re-appointed as the Groups external auditors at the are set out in written terms of reference which are Groups forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
available on the Companys website at burberryplc.
The Committee reviews its terms of reference annually.
Non-audit services The Committee recognises that the independence of the These responsibilities include among others : auditors is an essential part of the audit framework and the assurance that it provides.
The Committee has adopted the integrity of the Groups financial statements and a policy which sets out certain principles which the Group formal announcements of the Groups performance: should follow in relation to the engagement of the Groups auditors for non-audit services.
the Groups internal financial, operational and compliance controls and risk identication and management systems: Under the policy, the auditors may provide non-audit services recommending the appointment of external auditors, that do not conict with their independence, subject to prior approving their remuneration and overseeing their work: approval as set out in the policy.
Proposed fees above a certain level must be approved by the Audit Committee.
developing and implementing policies on the engagement Such fees must be activity based and not success related.
of the external auditors for the supply of non-audit At the half year and year end, the Audit Committee reviews services: and all non-audit services provided by the auditors during reviewing arrangements whereby employees may, in the period and the fees relating to such services.
If during confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties the year Group expenditure for non-audit services exceeds inmatters of financial reporting and other matters.
1m, all further requests for work must be referred to the Chairman of the Committee.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 81 Corporate governance continued During the year, the Group spent 0.5m on non-audit Activities during the year services provided by .
Further The Nomination Committee met twice during the year details can be found in note 5. under review.
The table on page 76 gives details of directors attendance at these meetings.
Report of the Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder, Other regular attendees at Committee meetings include: the Executive Vice President Corporate Resources, the The role of the Nomination Committee is to review the Chief Corporate Affairs officer and the Company Secretary.
balance and composition of the Board and its committees, ensuring that they remain t for purpose.
All directors have, since the 2011 Annual General Meeting, offered themselves for annual re-election in accordance Our focus during the year has been on: with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The directors reviewing Board and committee succession to ensure will do so again at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
thatthe Board continues to build on its relevant skills andcompetencies for the future: The biographical details of the directors can be found on page 68 of this Annual Report.
The Board confirms that, executive and senior management succession planning: and following the internal evaluation during the year led by the consideration of diversity issues including in the context Chairman, the performance of each of the directors standing ofLord Davies report entitled Women on Boards.
for re-election continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to their roles, including commitment of time These will remain a priority for the coming year.
Set out below forBoard and committee meetings and any other duties.
is more detail on the role of the Committee and its activities during the year.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors, including the expected time commitment, are Sir John Peace available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce.
Chairman, Nomination Committee Other governance disclosures Annual General Meeting Committee membership As required by UK Corporate Governance Code, the The following directors served as members of the Committee Notice of the 2011 Annual General Meeting was sent throughout the financial year ended 31 March 2012: to hareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
Apoll vote was taken on each of the resolutions Members Appointment Date put before shareholders.
All directors attended the 2011 Sir John Peace Chairman 21 June 2002 Annual General Meeting and the Chairman of the Board Angela Ahrendts 23 March 2007 and the chairmen ofeach of the committees were available Philip Bowman 21 June 2002 to answer shareholders questions.
Ian Carter 18 May 2007 Stephanie George 23 March 2007 Voting at the upcoming 2012 Annual General Meeting will John Smith 2 February 2010 beby way of poll.
The results of the voting at the Annual David Tyler 23 March 2007 General Meeting will be announced and details of the voteswill be available to view on the Groups website at Role of the Committee burberryplc.
com as soon as possible after the meeting.
The main roles and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are set out in written terms of reference which It is the intention that all directors, including the Chairmen are available on the Companys website at burberryplc.
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, The Committee reviews its terms of reference annually.
will attend the Annual General Meeting and will be available to answer shareholders questions.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the balance and composition of the Board and its committees Share capital and for identifying and recommending appointments or Further information about the Companys share capital, renewal of appointments to the Board.
These regular reviews including substantial shareholdings, can be found in the ensure that the Group and the Board are able to draw from Directors Report on pages 70 to 73. acomplementary balance of skills and experience and that there is in place an appropriate plan for orderly succession tothe Board.
The procedure for appointments is set out in the Committees terms of reference.
82 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12
