the commIttee APPoIntment of mARK ZInKUlA The Nominations Committee leads the process for the Following the appointment of the Group Chief executive appointment of new directors to the Board and reviews the Nominations Committee met to further examine the on a regular basis the succession plans in place for range of competencies and experience on the Board executive directors and key senior management, Board along with the importance of a diverse Board both in composition, the suitability of the directors standing for terms of thought, background, experience and gender re-election at the AGM and whether the Chairman and and determined that it would be in the best interests of the non-executive directors continue to be able to meet the Board and the Company as a whole for LGIM to be their commitments to the Company.
The Committee evaluated the skills, knowledge and experience required for the role and determined that Mark Zinkula, CEO, LGIM met these Members requirements and should be appointed to the Board.
John Stewart Rudy Markham TheCommittee believes that this appointment greatly Nick Prettejohn Stuart Popham contributes to the diversity of the Board as Mark brings Dame Clara Furse Mike Fairey international insight from his breadth of experience in Henry Staunton Julia Wilson the US.
The Nominations Committee is chaired by the Chairman, SeARch foR chIef fInAncIAl offIceR and all non-executive directors are members of the The Committee is currently engaged in a process to Committee.
The executive directors, as well as the identify and appoint a Chief Financial officer following Group General Counsel and Group HR Director, may the appointment of Nigel Wilson, previous CFo, as attend meetings by invitation.
The Committee is Group Chief executive.
currently chaired by Henry Staunton, the Senior Independent Director, when it is considering matters dIveRSItY relating to the Chairman.
The Nominations Committee Under its terms of reference, the Nominations met formally seven times in2012.
Committee must review regularly the structure, size, and composition of the Board including the balance of skills, GRoUP chIef execUtIve SUcceSSIon knowledge, and experience and make recommendations During 2012 the Committee met regularly to consider to the Board for any changes.
This year the Board built the plans for the Group Chief executive succession.
on its previous diversity statement and adopted a Board The Committee assessed the skills, competencies diversity policy.
The Nominations Committee will and qualities required for the position and produced consider the policy in future appointments to the Board.
a detailed candidate brief setting out in detail the responsibilities of the role.
The Committee then engaged In accordance with the policy the Committee will external search consultants, odgers Berndtson, who encourage the emergence of female candidates and are signatories to the voluntary Code of Conduct for candidates of diverse backgrounds by: i engaging an executive Search Firms, to undertake a search that executive search firm that is a signatory to the executive considered both external and internal candidates.
Search Firms voluntary Code of Conduct: ii liaising TheCommittee considered a long list of applicants with the search firm to produce a brief that includes of appropriate merit, which included female candidates an appropriate emphasis on diversity of skills and and candidates from a diverse range of backgrounds background, independence of approach and other and then rigorously interviewed a refined list of personal qualities in addition to career experience and candidates for the position.
The Committee assessed compatibility with the values and behaviours of existing and compared the merits of each of these candidates Board Members, with a view to enhancing the overall before recommending to the Board the appointment effectiveness of the Board: and iii encouraging the of NigelWilson as Group Chief executive.
search firm to produce long lists which include female and other diverse candidates of appropriate merit.
TheCommittee will also consider high-performing female and other senior executives from a diverse range of backgrounds who may nothave previous Board experience in executive and non-executive directorship roles subject to the requirements for potential candidates to meet FSA approved person requirements for a Board director ofafinancial servicesfirm.
indd 64 16 03 2013 03:17 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn The Committee believes that diversity at all levels of dIRectoRS tIme commItment theorganisation is important and is working to further All directors may serve on a number of other Boards, strengthen the representation of women among the provided they can demonstrate that any such appointment non-Board senior management who may be the Board will not interfere with their time commitment to the directors of tomorrow.
Board members play an active Company and that they obtain the agreement of role in supporting and contributing to various employee the Chairman to the appointment before accepting.
talent development programmes by mentoring executive directors must also obtain the permission individual employees and meeting with groups of the Group Chief executive.
The major commitments of employees who take part in the programmes.
of our executive and non-executive directors are outlined in their biographies on pages 54-55.
Currently, IndePendence non-executive directors are contractually obliged to The Committee and the Board evaluate the independence commit circa 25 days per year.
However, in practice of all non-executive directors, in particular any nontheir time commitment is significantly in excess of executive director serving over six years.
The Chairmans time commitment is two to of each of the non-executive directors interests was two and a half days per week.
The Committee remains carried out in September 2012.
The Board was satisfied satisfied that all non-executive directors have sufficient with the findings of this review and concluded that each time to meet their commitments to the Company and non-executive director remainedindependent.
was alsosatisfied that during 2012 the Chairmans other commitments did not interfere with the day-to-day In october 2012, Rudy Markham reached six years of performance of his duties for the Company.
service on the Board and accordingly, the Committee met again to consider the independence of each nonThe terms of reference for all Board Committees can executive director.
TheCommittee was requested be viewed on our website.
to give particular consideration as to whether Rudy remained independent in character and judgement given his length of tenure and to report back to the Board on its findings.
As part of the assessment process, the Committee reviewed eachof Rudys external business interests and other relationships which could materially interfere with the exercise of objective and independent judgement or could affect Rudys ability to act in the best interests of the Company.
The Committee was satisfied that there were no circumstances which would affect Rudys judgement and determined that Rudy remained independent and continued to provide a valuable contribution to the Boards deliberations.
