Governance GRoUP RISK commIttee RePoRt.
the committees role is to provide other attendees at Committee meetings include: the Group Chairman, Group Chief executive, guidance to the Board in relation Group Chief Risk officer, Group Chief Internal to the Groups risk management Auditor and representatives of the external policies and procedures, and to auditor,  LLP.
provide advice on what constitutes All members of the Committee are independent acceptable risk taking.
The Board reviewed the composition of the Committee during 2012 and nIcK PRetteJohn concluded that the composition is appropriate and chAIRmAn of the GRoUP RISK commIttee that Committee members have the knowledge and skills to effectively fulfil their responsibilities.
the commIttee The Committee met seven times during 2012.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed Members annually and the current terms of reference Committee member since 2 November 2010, Nick Prettejohn Chair since 6 April 2011 reviewed in November 2012 are available on Dame Clara Furse Committee member since 14 April 2010 our website.
The terms of reference expressly Henry Staunton Committee member since 14 April 2010 confirm that the Committees remit covers the full Stuart Popham Committee member since 1 July 2011 spectrum of major risks facing the business of the Group, including operational and conduct risk.
The Chairman of the Committee reports back to the Board on the outcome of meetings, and the Board receives the minutes of all Committee meetings.
the commItteeS Role The Groups approach to the management of risk is explained in detail on pages 44 to 51.
The Committees role is to provide guidance to the Board in relation to the Groups risk management policies and procedures, and to provide advice on what constitutes acceptable risk taking.
The Committee provides input on and assistance to the Board in the formulation and definition of the Groups Risk Appetite statements.
The Committee is assisted by the work of the Group Chief Risk officer who reports, and has unfettered access, to the Committee.
The Committee must approve the appointment or removal of the Group Chief Risk officer.
indd 68 16 03 2013 03:17 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn Risk management review Group chief Risk officers regular report During 2012, the Board commissioned an externally The Group Chief Risk officer provides a detailed facilitated review to assess the Groups risk management report to the Committee at each meeting.
each report framework against industry best practice in readiness highlights key matters in the environments in which the for Solvency II.
The review has been overseen by Group is operating, the risks that these may present and the Committee and has been a major focus during potential mitigation.
KPMG were appointed to facilitate the review.
eurozone and UK economic conditions and the political The Committee considered the findings of the review and regulatory environment.
The report also focuses on and is overseeing the implementation of a target specific company risks and issues and emerging risks, operating model designed in response to the review the nature of the risks and how they may have changed.
recommendations to meet the needs of the Groups The report provides the Committee with an opportunity future strategy.
to debate key issues and review mitigating actions.
Risk appetite statements RelAtIonShIP BetWeen the AUdIt An additional major focus of the Committee during 2012 commIttee And GRoUP RISK commIttee has been the review of risk appetite and the Groups The Chairman of the Audit Committee is a member of risk-based capital requirements, committing an entire the Group Risk Committee.
The areas of responsibility meeting in July to debating these topics, alongside of each of the Audit Committee and the Group Risk consideration of the profile of strategic and emerging Committee are defined.
The Group Risk Committee risks to the Group.
provides guidance to the Board on risk management policies and procedures and what constitutes acceptable Solvency II internal model submission risk taking, while the Audit Committee looks at the The Groups application to the FSA for approval to use a adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control partial internal model to calculate the Groups solvency framework encapsulated within those policies and capital requirement under Solvency II was submitted in procedures, including financial control.
The Committee reviewed the application consideration of areas of potential overlap between the before it was submitted to the Board for final approval.
Committees and where it would be helpful for an issue considered by one committee to also be considered by focused business reviews the other.
The Audit Committee receives input from the A cycle of focused business reviews during the course Group Risk Committee in the preparation of the internal of 2012 has enabled the Committee to undertake deep audit programme and external audit plan.
dives into the risk profiles of core business lines through discussion with the relevant managing directors.
Key reviews during the year included: Legal & General Investments, the Groups collective investment schemes business.
Additionally, as part of a cycle of risk management reviews, the Committee has considered the frameworks in place across the Group for the management of: Insurance risk.
