OUR APPROACH TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE directors and senior management to gain an in-depth As a Company, we are committed to the highest standards understanding of all business areas, the challenges of corporate governance.
This year the Board has they face and strategies for growth.
The induction considered in detail the most recent additions to the programmes are tailored to meet the needs of UK Corporate Governance Code the Code in relation to theappointee.
diversity, which has resulted in the adoption of a Board diversity policy.
On Mark Zinkulas appointment to the Board, an induction programme was developed for him focusing We have carried out an annual review of our Corporate in particular on business areas other than LGIM to ensure Governance framework, which included the review of that Mark has an in-depth understanding of the Group a number of corporate governance policies along with as a whole.
As part of this programme, Mark has also the terms of reference for each of the Board Committees, participated in training sessions detailing advanced theGroup conflicts of interest policy, the share ownership directors duties with aparticular emphasis on the policy for non-executive directors and all Board and specific obligations of adirector of a UK listed company.
subsidiary directors conflicts of interest.
The Board is pleased to report that the Company was fully compliant The Chairman meets regularly with each director to with the principles and provisions of the Code throughout agree training and development goals and personal the year under review.
development plans are in place for each of the nonexecutive directors, which include business-related THE DIRECTORS training sessions and UK and overseas site visits.
The Board is led by the Chairman, John Stewart, and the day-to-day management of the organisation is led The executive and non-executive directors are invited by the Group Chief Executive, Nigel Wilson, previously toattend regular Executive Business Awareness Chief Financial Officer, who succeeded Tim Breedon sessions following the scheduled Board meetings with on 30June 2012.
The composition of the Board is the keyfocus during 2012 having been Solvency II and reviewed regularly to ensure the right combination Conduct Risk.
of skills and experience is in place to lead the Company.
The latest review recognised the desirability of greater representation on the Board fromthe Groups investment management business, LGIM, and in September 2012, OffICE LOCATION SITE VISITS the Board was pleased to announce the appointment of Mark Zinkula, Chief Executive Officer of LGIM, as an During the course of 2012, Board meetings were executive director.
held in several different Company locations: central London, Kingswood and Hove.
The Board meetings In accordance with the recommendations of the Code, heldin Kingswood and Hove included site visits to Mark Zinkula will stand for election by shareholders the business areas operating at these locations and at the 2013 AGM and all other Board directors, with gave the Board members a great opportunity to meet the exception of Henry Staunton who intends to retire with employees to discuss new business ideas and as adirector, will stand for re-election as was the case initiatives and experience customer service first-hand.
Employees greatly valued the opportunity to ask questions and gain insights from Board members Following Nigels appointment as Chief Executive insmall group sessions.
and whilst we have been undertaking the process to identify a new Chief Financial Officer, Wadham Downing I really valued the opportunity to discuss has acted as Interim Chief Financial Officer and attended newcustomer service initiatives with several all meetings of the Board.
The insights they gave from their experience of how other companies Training and development operate was extremely useful and informative.
On appointment to the Board, directors participate in a comprehensive induction programme which continues QUOTE fROM EMPLOYEE to improve and evolve as new directors join the Board.
As part of the induction programme each director is provided with a detailed induction pack containing key business information, the Groups governance policies and investor reports.
Each director also attends an extensive series of structured meetings with other 58 annual report and accounts 2012 68906 L&G p052-069.
indd 58 18 04 2013 08:59 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn the Board The Group Chief executive, who is responsible for The Board meets formally on a regular basis and theday-to-day management of the organisation, the meeting agenda, which was refreshed following is supported by the executive management team the Board effectiveness Review in 2012, prioritises and anexecutive Committee, which comprises all strategic issues, the Companys financial and of the executive Directors, the Group Chief Risk officer, operational performance, keystakeholder matters the Group Regulatory Risk and Compliance Director, and the performance of the individual business areas.
the Group HR Director, the Head of Group Treasury and Investments, the Director of Shared Services and The specific duties of the Board and those decisions which the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
can only be made by the Board are clearly defined in The Committee acts as an advisory group to the Group the schedule of matters reserved.
The matters requiring Chief executive and exists to inform executive decisionBoard approval include, amongst others: making within the authority delegated by the Board.
The executive Committee aims to meet in advance Group annual strategic plans and any changes of each Group Board meeting and reviews matters to to such plans.
be proposed to the Group Board for approval in order Mergers, acquisitions and disposals of a material size.
to ensure that the executive Committee is supportive Changes to Group structure and capital.
of such matters, that they have been fully stress Financial reporting and dividends.
tested and that information provided to the Board is Group risk appetite and internal controls.
comprehensive, transparent and sufficiently focused.
The approach to corporate governance.
BoARd AGendA: KeY AReAS of focUS In 2012 STRATeGIC oPPoRTUNITIeS RISK APPeTITe SUCCeSSIoN PLANNING AND STAKeHoLDeR RevIeW AND GRoWTH TALeNT MANAGeMeNT The Board continues to focus The Board is accountable for The Board recognises the The Board recognises the on accelerated evolution and ensuring that risk is effectively importance of developing importance of understanding the Boards agenda prioritises managed across the Group.
talent throughout the the views of all key stakeholders strategic growth opportunities The Board has focused on organisation.
The Board and regularly dedicates time to to facilitate time for discussion formulating and refining receives regular talent focus on a particular stakeholder ofthese key matters.
the Groups risk appetite management updates and group.
This year the Board statement to ensure that supports the development specifically considered: strategic proposals brought to of individuals.
Several Board institutional Investors the Board are debated within members mentor individuals and retail shareholders: the context of the Companys participating in a Future customers: risk appetite.
employees: Government bodies: and regulators.
indd 59 16 03 2013 03:17 Governance coRPoRAte GoveRnAnce contInUed StRAteGY AWAY dAYS BoARd And BoARd commIttee evAlUAtIon In 2012, an externally facilitated evaluation of the Boards The Board dedicates time to considering the performance, the performance of its individual directors Companys future strategy, in light of the previous and that of its Committees was carried out by KPMG LLP years performance against set targets, the continuing KPMG who were chosen following a selection process challenges that face the UK and global economies and that considered a range of potential external evaluators.
financial services companies, and the opportunities The Board agreed detailed terms of reference for the for growth.
A two day strategy event was held in 2012 review and considered the merits of each evaluator at which the Board considered the growth and future against those terms.
The Board concluded that KPMG development of the Group as a whole and how greater demonstrated the most appropriate skill set.
synergies could be driven across the Group.
This year there were focused discussions on expansion of Inparticular, the Board believed KPMGs significant the LGIM business, the growing need for retirement expertise in the areas of Solvency II and RDR would solutions, connecting better with customers and be useful to the evaluation process giventhat these improving digital presence.
Thedirectors found this matters have required significant consideration and tobe a particularly interactive, thought provoking input from the Board.
KPMG do not currently have any and helpfulevent.
material relationships with the Company, they are not the Companys auditors, but are on a panel of numerous this was my first strategy day since joining the service providers who may be considered to assist the Board last november and I was very impressed Company with various projects, from time to time.
with the openness of all the participants to robust and constructive debate, and the breadth The aim of the Board effectiveness Review was to assess of opportunities we have as a business.
It was the effectiveness of the Boards processes, composition also good to be able to interact with many in the and structure in order to identify and implement any wider management team in a less formal setting actions required to improve effectiveness.
In order to than the Boardroom.
best meet this objective, the review focused on five related areas: JUlIA WIlSon non-execUtIve dIRectoR Board Leadership Board Structure & Composition oversight of Strategy, Risk and Control Decision Making enGAGement WIth StAKeholdeRS Development and Culture.
During the year we have continued to promote greater direct engagement with both our retail and institutional shareholders and the Chairman and the Group Chief executive have held regular meetings with institutional investors and analysts throughout the year.
TheGroup General Counsel and Company Secretary facilitates communication with retail shareholders onbehalf oftheBoard.
The Companys Investor Relations department is also dedicated to facilitating engagement with shareholders to ensure that the Companys performance is clearly understood and the Board is well informed of shareholder opinion in response.
The Investor Relations department holds regular meetings with investors and aims to meet with the Companys top 20 investors twice per year.
The team aims to be available on request and, where possible, facilitates access to the Board and senior management.
The Board received regular reports from the Investor Relations department on its activities, and in particular feedback received throughout the year from investors, analysts and advisers.
indd 60 16 03 2013 03:17 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn The Board effectiveness Review process comprised: decision-making and the roles and performance ofthe Chairman, the senior independent director, executive A desktop assessment of Board papers, Board directors and other non-executive directors.
and management information and other relevant documentation.
The evaluation concluded that the Board was overall Meetings with executive Committee members effective and recommendations, incorporating feedback and other key individuals within the organisation.
from the directors interviews, were provided to ensure Case study reviews in order to gain practical insight the Board remained fully effective as Corporate into the functioning of the governance process.
The Board has Formal structured interviews with all Board directors considered the recommendations and an update on focusing on all aspects of the Boards composition: progress made against some of the key recommendations Board oversight of strategy, risk and controls: is set out below.
ReCoMMeNDATIoN FRoM 2012 BoARD evALUATIoN ACTIoN TAKeN Board Considerations BoARd AGendAS The Board agenda was reviewed and a revised agenda was trialled by Consider and refine the Board agendas to enhance focus on strategic the Board.
The revised agenda prioritised strategic proposals to allow opportunities and growth.
more time for discussion, debate and challenge.
The revised format received positive feedback and has been in place since July 2012.
BoARd PAPeRS To ensure that all papers submitted to the Board are consistent and Consider improvements to the form and focus of Board papers.
focused, a guide to the drafting of Board papers and presenting at the Board has been developed and we have significantly reduced the volume of paper used in Board packs through the introduction of electronic Board papers.
mAnAGement InfoRmAtIon The Board management information packs have been reviewed and Improving the provision of information to allow more effective refreshed to highlight progress against key performance indicators, scrutiny and challenge.
strategic initiatives and risk appetite along with a consolidated business performance dashboard.
Director Considerations tRAInInG The Board Training Programme has been tailored to the needs of each Consider improvements to the format and content of the Board director.
The programme has been enhanced to include site visits to Training Programme.
the various business locations including Kingswood, Hove, France and the Netherlands.
The programme also includes regular one-to-one and group training sessions on relevant topics, with recent examples of Balance Sheet and Reserving and With Profit Bonds.
BoARd PARtIcIPAtIon each executive director provides an update at each Board meeting Consider how to further increase the contribution of all executive on their respective business areas, including bringing early stage directors and how to promote greater open discussion of issues, proposals to the Board: for example, new initiatives as part of including bringing ideas to the Board at an earlier stage.
Following implementation of this recommendation, each individual directors contribution to discussion, debate and challenge has significantly increased.
indd 61 16 03 2013 03:17 Governance coRPoRAte GoveRnAnce contInUed comPlIAnce WIth the UK coRPoRAte GoveRnAnce code For the year ended 31 December 2012, the Board believes that the Company has complied with the principles and provisions of the UKCorporate Governance Code.
A full version of the UK Corporate Governance Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website: www.
uk A. leAdeRShIP B. effectIveneSS c. AccoUntABIlItY d. RemUneRAtIon e. RelAtIonS WIth ShAReholdeRS A1 the Boards role B1 the Boards composition B5 Provision of information c1 financial and business Reporting d1 levels and elements of remuneration e1 Shareholder engagement The Board meets formally on a regular basis in The composition of the Board is reviewed andsupport The Directors Report can be located on pages The levels of remuneration of directors and anddialogue order to review the Companys performance and regularly by the Nominations Committee to The Chairman, in conjunction with 1 to 100, and this sets out the performance of how the Company promotes an alignment of The Board seeks to actively engage strategy against set objectives.
There is a clear ensure that the there is an appropriate mix the Company Secretary, ensures the Company, the business model, strategy interests between directors and shareholders with both institutional and retail schedule of matters reserved for the Board as ofskills on the Board and a range of that all Board members receive and the risks and uncertainties relating to the by linking reward to performance are explained shareholders.
Details of the shareholder further described on page 59. diverseexperience.
in the Directors Remuneration Report on engagement programme are set out page 70. on page 60.
A2 A clear division of responsibilities B2 Board appointments B6 Board and committee c2 Risk management and internal control d2 development of remuneration policy e2 constructive use of the AGm The Company has both a Chairman, who is The appointment of new directors to the Board Performance evaluation systems and packages The Board values the AGM as an responsible for the leadership and effectiveness is led by the Nominations Committee.
Further An externally facilitated evaluation The Board sets the Companys risk appetite and The activities of the Remuneration Committee important opportunity to engage with ofthe Board and a Group Chief executive who is details of the appointments undertaken during was undertaken during 2012 and is annually reviews the effectiveness of the and the way in which it sets executive investors.
Attendees at the AGM have responsible for leading the day-to-day management the year and succession planning can be found described in detail on page 61.
Companys risk management and internal remuneration policy are set out in the the opportunity to ask questions to of the Company within the strategy set by on page 64. control systems.
The activities of the Audit and Directors Remuneration Report on page 70. the Board and to speak to individual theBoard.
Group Risk Committees, which assist the Board directors following the formal business with its responsibilities in relation to risk setting of the meeting.
and management, are set out on page 44.
A3 Role of the chairman B3 time commitments B7 Re-election of the directors c3 Role and responsibilities of the Audit The Chairman sets the agendas for meetings, The time commitments of non-executive All directors were subject to committee manages the meeting timetable and facilitates open directors are defined on appointment and shareholder re-election at the The Board has delegated a number of and constructive dialogue during themeetings.
In practice, the time 2012 AGM as will be the case at the responsibilities to the Audit and Group Risk commitments go beyond those set out in the 2013AGM.
Committees which undertake the day-to-day letters of appointment.
The Chairman gives oversight of the risk management framework on consideration to new directorships which behalf of the Board.
The Chairmen of each of the may impact existing time commitments.
Committees provide regular reports to the Board.
A4 Role of the non-executive directors B4 training and development The Chairman promotes an open and constructive An induction programme is in place.
environment in the boardroom and actively invites TheChairman reviews each of the the non-executive directorsviews.
non-executive directors training needs and tailored programmes are in place Regular meetings are held between the to meet theseneeds.
non-executive directors in the absence of the executive directors providing an opportunity for any concerns to be discussed.
BoARd And commIttee meetInGS AttendAnce Appointment Audit Nominations Remuneration Group Risk Director Date Board 9 Committee 5 Committee 7 Committee 8 Committee 7 J Stewart 1 January 2010 9 9 7 7 T J Breedon 1 January 2002 4 4 M Fairey 1 May 2011 9 9 3 5 6 7 6 8 Dame C Furse 1 June 2009 8 9 6 7 6 7 M J Gregory 28 January 2009 9 9 R Markham 4 october 2006 9 9 7 7 8 8 J B Pollock 11 December 2003 9 9 S Popham 1 July 2011 9 9 7 7 7 8 7 7 N Prettejohn 2 November 2010 9 9 5 5 7 7 8 8 7 7 H e Staunton 1 May 2004 9 9 5 5 7 7 7 7 J Wilson 9 November 2011 8 9 5 5 6 7 N D Wilson 1 September 2009 9 9 M Zinkula 18 September 2012 3 3 1.
Retired with effect from 30 June 2012.
Appointed as a director on 18 September 2012.
indd 62 16 03 2013 03:17 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn comPlIAnce WIth the UK coRPoRAte GoveRnAnce code For the year ended 31 December 2012, the Board believes that the Company has complied with the principles and provisions of the UKCorporate Governance Code.
