the committee is primarily been assisted by the evolution of an internal audit performance scorecard and control theme reporting.
responsible for overseeing the With the implementation of the RDR from 1 January Groups internal control and risk 2013, the Committee hasbeen focused during 2012 on management framework, financial the governance structure and controls in place for the reporting and the work undertaken RDR implementation programme.
The Committee has received regular reports from the programme sponsor by, and the relationship with, the on key programme risks.
In conjunction with the Group Risk Committee, the henRY StAUnton Committee assists the Board in ensuring the Group chAIRmAn of the AUdIt commIttee operates within a framework of prudent and effective controls that allows risk to be identified, assessed and managed.
Implementation and maintenance of the the commIttee internal control systems are the responsibility of the All members of the Committee are independent executive directors and senior management.
Where non-executive directors and a finding of the Boards failings or weaknesses have been identified, actions externally facilitated evaluation was that the Committee have been taken to remedy these.
The Groups control members have the knowledge and skills to effectively policies and procedures, which are in accordance with fulfil their responsibilities.
Turnbull Guidance, have been in place during 2012 and up to the date this report was approved.
The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage rather Members than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable Committee member since 1 May 2004, Chair and not absolute assurance against material loss.
Henry Staunton since 27 April 2005 The internal control and risk management systems Mike Fairey Committee member since 1 May 2011 cover the Companys financial reporting process and the Nick Prettejohn Committee member since 15 March 2011 Groups process for preparation of consolidated financial Julia Wilson Committee member since 9 November 2011 statements.
For 2012, the Board was able to conclude, with reasonable assurance, that appropriate internal other attendees at Committee meetings include: control and risk management systems were maintained the Group Chairman, Group Chief executive, Group throughout the year.
Chief Financial officer, Group Chief Risk officer, Group Financial Controller, Group Chief Internal financial reporting Auditor, UK Actuary and representatives of the In conjunction with the external auditors, the Committee external auditor,  LLP.
considers and approves significant assumptions and areas of accounting judgement for the Groups The Committee met five times during 2012.
The consolidated accounts and for subsidiary accounts.
Committees terms of reference are reviewed During 2012, the Committee has focused on mortality annually and the current terms of reference, reviewed and longevity assumptions, annuity valuation interest in November 2012 are available on our website.
rate which is used to discount actuarial liabilities, the methodology for calculation of default reserves the commItteeS Role in light of market conditions and changes in credit During 2012, the Committee focused on: ratings of assets within the portfolio, reinvestment and disinvestment rate assumptions for the setting Internal control and risk management framework of the level of reserve for the annuities business, The Committee considers control environment issues, guarantees and options provided within international root causes and managements responses and follow products, US deferred acquisition costs policy and the up activities and is assisted by the work of both internal assumed return on Group capital and financing assets.
audit and the external auditor.
During 2012, the Committee The Committee reviews compliance with International considered and sought assurance on the controls around Financial Reporting Standards within the Group the financial management processes for the With Profits and considered managements assessment when fund, the technology infrastructure for strategic asset determining the basis for preparation of the financial data within the Groups asset management business statements.
The Committee evaluated the consistency and the processes for assumption setting for the Legal of the 2011 preliminary results announcement and 2011 & General America business.
It also considered the asset Directors Report, and the 2012 half year results exposures of international subsidiaries and how these announcement with the financial statements.
In light of are being managed.
In particular, the Committee has 66 annual report and accounts 2012 68906 L&G p052-069.
indd 66 16 03 2013 03:17 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn the current focus on corporates UK tax contributions, of the external audit contract every ten years.
The Group this year the Committee reviewed the Companys tax audit was last tendered in full in 2006 with a partial tender policy in the context of the Groups corporate social process undertaken in 2009.
In accordance with the responsibility and shareholder stewardship objectives new requirements of the Code, the Audit Committee and the Companys approach to tax disclosure.
recognises the need to carry out a review of the audit service provider within ten years from the date of the Internal audit last tender and accordingly following the appointment The Committee received quarterly reports from of a new Chief Financial officer, the Committee intends the Group Chief Internal Auditor on internal audits to carry out a review at an appropriate time between undertaken, the detailed findings on areas assessed now and the 2017 year-end audit.
There are no as high risk and where the Committee determined it contractual obligations to the external auditor which required further information and assurance, detailed restrict the Committees choice of statutory auditor.
discussions with the management of those areas took place on managements responses to the internal audit In 2012, the Group spent 3m on non-audit services actions.
The Committee reviewed and approved the provided by .
Further details annual internal audit plan for 2012-2013 and reviewed can be found in Note 32 to the Group Consolidated both the level and quality of resources available to the Financial Statements.
Group Chief Internal Auditor, the allocation of resources between traditional internal audit cycle work and project Analysis of current and prior year spend on audit, work and the risk based approach underlying the internal other assurance and non-assurance services: audit annual plan.
The Committee held two private 2012 2011 2010 2009 meetings with the Group Chief Internal Auditor in the Audit and Related 4.6 4.5 4.1 4.5 absence of management during 2012. other Assurance 1.8 0.9 0.0 0.1 Non Assurance 1.1 1.0 1.1 1.0 external auditor Total 7.5 6.4 5.2 5.6 each year, the Committee reviews the external auditors audit plan to ensure it aligns with the Committees view of the significant risk areas of financial misstatement.
A significant proportion of the other Assurance fees in 2011 and 2012 relate to quality assurance work undertaken by the external auditor on the RDR The Committee judges the external auditor on the quality of their audit findings, managements response implementation programme and Solvency ll regulatory assurance.
The external auditor was selected to undertake and stakeholder feedback.
We conducted a review this work following a competitive tender process and of their performance and effectiveness by way of a structured questionnaire which was distributed to was selected because of their expertise and experience.
Separate teams from PwC undertake audit and non-audit Committee members, attendees and divisional Finance work in order to ensure independence and objectivity of Directors.
A number of the criteria for judging the effectiveness of the external auditors are set out below: the audit team and this control is monitored internally.
The Groups policy requires that all services with an Provision of timely and accurate industry specific and technical knowledge.
anticipated cost in excess of a specified amount are subject to a full competitive tender involving at least two Maintaining a professional and open dialogue with other alternate parties in addition to the external auditor.
the Committee chairman and members at all times.
Delivery of an efficient audit and the ability to meet If the external auditor is selected following the tender process, the Committee is responsible for approving the objectives within the agreed timeframes.
external auditors fees on the engagement.
For services Provision of high quality and consistent advice at all times.
with an anticipated cost below the specified amount, the Group Chief Financial officer has authority to approve the engagement.
The external auditor and management Having reviewed and discussed the feedback, report regularly to the Committee on the nature and fees theCommittee continues to believe that relating to non-audit services provided under this authority.
 is the appropriate audit firm for the Group taking into account their performance The external auditor is required to rotate the audit during 2012, the audit needs of the Group and our engagement partner every five years.
The current audit principal business areas, the regulatory landscape partner commenced his engagement in 2008 and and our footprint.
 has been therefore stepped down as the audit engagement our statutory auditor for a number of years and the partner following the 2012 audit.
Committee is cognisant of the new requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to the tendering annual report and accounts 2012 67 68906 L&G p052-069.
