Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 28 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RElATiOnsHiPs And REsPOnsiBiliTY BuildinG VAluABlE RElATiOnsHiPs THE succEssFul dEliVERY OF OuR sTRATEGY And FOcus On HElPinG BRiTAin PROsPER Will BE dRiVEn BY THE RElATiOnsHiPs WE dEVElOP With over 30 million personal and business customers Rebuilding trust 1 and a presence in communities across the country, Recent external research undertaken by ipsos MORi on behalf of lloyds Banking Group showed that, through the eyes of our customers and we are very well placed to help unlock the potential potential customers, relationships and responsibility are inseparable.
of families, businesses and communities we serve, and When it comes to responsible banking, our customers dont just think of make a significant contribution to the future strength the areas covered by a traditional corporate responsibility programme.
Being the best bank for For them, taking responsibility more seriously means being a bank that: customers, alongside a focus on operating sustainably is offering better service q and responsibly, underpins our approach to business.
looks after the financial interests of customers q in order to meet our ambitions to be the best bank for customers and to help Britain prosper we need strong relationships with our customers responds to customer needs, e. g. offering longer opening q as well as our colleagues and communities.
This section of our report hours in branches, enhancing access through a range of channels explains why and how we nurture these relationships.
including the internet At lloyds Banking Group, we see ourselves as having a clear role to play provides clear communication q in helping Britain prosper.
As the uKs largest retail and commercial has policies in place on environmental protection q bank, we are already doing more than our peers to help people manage has policies in place on human rights and ethics their finances.
q invests in communities q lloyds Banking Group brands offer essential services to our customers helping people to buy their first homes, offering sMEs support, and using Alongside these findings, ipsos MORis issues index shows that the state our peoples skills to give uK communities access to appropriate financial of the uK economy remained the primary concern of the British public products.
But with faith in the sector at a low level, we recognise the need throughout 2012. to rebuild trust with our customers.
Operating responsibly whist improving customer service and helping Britain prosper are fundamental components of our group strategy.
We can only achieve our customer focused strategy by building a sound reputation founded on the highest standards of corporate behaviour.
Relationships and responsibility The Group considers the three stakeholder groups of customers, colleagues and communities as key crucially recognising their interdependence as we realise our vision of being the best bank for customers.
Meeting customers needs by developing appropriate products can only be achieved through the commitment and applied skills of our colleagues.
Equally, we recognise the role our people play in helping communities to thrive through the services and advice we give to uK business, and through the programmes that promote financial capability and inclusion.
1 The full research findings for the ipsos MORi research are available at www.
com Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Marketplace trends 19 28 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business model and strategy 22 Delivering our action plan 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 42 Summary of Group results 44 Divisional results 52 Group Operations and Central items 67 Other financial information 68 1 77 115 203 355 Five year financial summary 76 Corporate Responsibility Ensuring the business is run sustainably and responsibly is a priority for the Group.
Our responsible business strategy, focused around working with households, businesses and communities, is aligned to our overall business strategy and our aim to help Britain prosper.
Our approach to corporate Responsibility, along with current priorities is developed by our Responsible Business steering Group RBsG, which reports directly to the Group Board.
The RBsG develops principles and priorities from a top-level perspective and ensures they are embedded throughout our operations.
The RBsG is chaired by Anita Frew, nonexecutive director of lloyds Banking Group, and includes senior representation from across lloyds Banking Group.
The RBsG also guides and focuses the areas that are most material to cusTOMERs our business.
The top priorities at present are: customer care: supporting financial inclusion: and helping uK business and households.
The steering Group will continue to review areas of focus in 2013, with a particular view to integrating stakeholder interests on material issues.
30 in addition to this internal committee we have also established a high-level experts group, an external stakeholder panel and have created a colleague focus group to ensure the views of our stakeholders are considered and effectively addressed in our reporting and communications.
To ensure the highest standards of corporate behaviour in 2012 we launched the new codes of Responsibility to guide our decision making.
These codes, governed by the RBsG, specifically outline the way we aspire to do business as individuals and as a corporation, and are based on five pillars of responsible business which include customers, colleagues and communities.
lloyds Banking Group has retained our position in the FTsE4Good socially responsible investment index and our overall scores remained broadly stable in the dow Jones sustainability index.
in addition we maintained our position in the carbon disclosure Project and retained Platinum status in the Business in the community cR index.
We are looking to build a leadership position in responsible business and developing a roadmap which will help us improve our performance and related cOllEAGuEs rankings going forward.
We aspire to conduct business in a way that values and respects the human rights of our colleagues, customers and those of the communities 34 in which we operate.
We adhere to the principles of the united nations declaration of Human Rights, international labour Organisation Fundamental conventions and are signatories to the Equator Principles see page 167.
Our codes of Responsibility set standards of ethical behaviour for our colleagues.
We also take into account social, ethical and environmental issues in our investment, lending and service operations.
The day-to-day implementation of our responsible business strategy is managed by the Group community & sustainable Business team.
during 2012 we continued to develop our community strategy around the themes of Education, Employability and Enterprise.
More detail on our approach to corporate responsibility and future plans will be described in our 2012 Responsible Business report which will be published in May 2013.
Our 2011 report along with further information on our approach to corporate responsibility and our codes of responsibility can be found on our website at www.
in line with the Groups values of putting customers first, keeping it simple, and making a difference together we are looking to build a strong and profitable Group, with a culture which reinforces stringent behavioural cOMMuniTiEs standards and ensures we are operating sustainably and responsibly, both inside and outside of the organisation.
38 Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
