Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 86 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 cORPORATE GOVERnAncE REPORT The Board is committed to achieving long term success for the company by being the best bank for customers and generating stable and sustainable returns for shareholders.
Fundamental to the Boards strategy are high standards of corporate governance designed to ensure rigour in the Boards discussions and decision making.
This report explains how our corporate governance standards, in particular, those laid down in the 2010 edition of the Financial Reporting council FRc s uK corporate Governance code the code, apply in practice to ensure that the Board and management work together for the long term benefit of the company and its shareholders.
The code can be accessed at www.
in 2012, the code was reviewed by the FRc and amendments were introduced that will apply to financial periods commencing after 1 October 2012 the new code.
Wherever appropriate, the Board has sought in 2012 to apply the provisions of the new code.
Leadership Role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the long term success of the company.
it achieves this by: setting the strategy and overseeing delivery against it: establishing the culture, values and standards of the Group: ensuring that the Group manages risk effectively through the approval and monitoring of the Groups risk appetite and a robust risk management framework: monitoring financial performance and reporting, including the approval of the Groups annual report and accounts: and oversight of resources including people and other key resources e. g. iT, and by ensuring that appropriate and effective remuneration policies and succession planning arrangements are in place.
To assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to provide independent oversight of the internal control and risk management framework, a substantial part of the Boards responsibilities are delegated to the Boards committees.
Each of the committees is chaired by an experienced chairman and comprises independent non-Executive Members only.
All non-Executive directors serve on at least two committees.
The Board is kept up to date on the activities of the committees through reports from the committee chairmen at each board meeting.
Terms of Reference for each of the committees can be found on our website at www.
com and information on the membership, role and activities of each of the committees can be found on pages 94 to 97. delegation of specialist matters to the committees allows a degree of rigour and scrutiny that would not be possible by the Board acting alone.
Matters of particular importance such as funding and liquidity, the internal capital Adequacy Assessment Process, provisioning and risk appetite are debated thoroughly by the relevant committee but need to be approved by the Board as a whole.
The Board believes that the committees are operating effectively.
The 2012 Board Effectiveness Review carried out by independent Audit summarised the performance of the committees as follows: A distinctive characteristic of the Board governance at Lloyds Banking Group is that much of the Boards work is done in the Committees...
The Committees themselves are very highly regarded by management and Non-Executive Directors alike, we think entirely justifiably.
Their high performance contributes a very large element of the overall positive picture.
in addition to the standing committees, the Board also established ad hoc committees during the year to oversee managements response to the industry investigation into liBOR and the FsA investigation into HBOs.
Both committees were set up as sub-committees of the Risk committee and are chaired by david Roberts, chair of the Risk committee.
Authority and delegation The Board operates through a Governance Framework which is reviewed at least annually to ensure that it remains fit for purpose.
The Governance Framework comprises the Board Governance Framework, the Executive Governance Framework and the Group subsidiaries Manual, each of which are explained below.
The Board Governance Framework is, in effect, the Boards operating manual and sets out: the matters that the Board has reserved to itself, including: the development and setting of strategy and long term objectives: approval of the medium term plan and financial budgets: capital and structure of capital: significant contracts: and various statutory and regulatory approvals: delegation of the responsibility for day to day management of the business to the Group chief Executive: terms of reference of, and delegations to, the Board committees to ensure an appropriate level of independent oversight by non-Executive directors: and the respective roles and responsibilities of each of the chairman, Group chief Executive, senior independent director and non-Executive directors.
A summary of the Board Governance Framework is available in the Governance section of our website at www.
The Executive Governance Framework is the means by which the Group chief Executive delegates responsibilities at executive level to assist him in carrying out his duties.
The Group chief Executive reserves certain matters to himself and, subject to financial limits, delegates responsibilities to the Executive directors, his direct reports and other senior executives who collectively make up the Group Executive committee.
The Executive Governance Framework provides for delegation to individuals and not to committees.
Through the adoption of consistent and proportionate standards, the Group subsidiaries Manual helps the Group to manage the legal, regulatory and reputational risks associated with its subsidiary entities by providing guidance on the required governance structures and controls having regard to the nature and risk profile of the entity.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Board of Directors 78 86 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group Executive Committee 80 Directors report 82 Corporate governance report 86 Directors remuneration report 98 Other remuneration disclosures 114 1 18 115 203 355 Roles of the Chairman and Chief executive There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the company.
The chairman has overall responsibility for the leadership of the Board while the Group chief Executive manages and leads the business.
The responsibilities of the chairman are set out in the Board Governance Framework and include: leadership of the Board: promoting the highest standards of corporate governance: oversight of the content of the Board meeting agendas to ensure that the Board devotes its time and attention to the right matters.
Agendas are finalised at Board Agenda Review meetings involving the chairman, Group chief Executive and company secretary.
The deputy chairman and senior independent director also attend: effective communication with shareholders and development of understanding of the views of shareholders: leading and, with the assistance of the company secretary, attending to the identification and provision of induction, training and development needs for directors and the Board generally: ensuring, with the support of the company secretary, that directors receive timely and relevant information and are kept advised of key developments, both during and between formal meetings: encouraging open dialogue between directors and to this end, he meets regularly with the non-Executive directors in the absence of Executive directors in private sessions: and building an effective and complementary Board and, in conjunction with the nomination & Governance committee, planning succession in Board appointments.
The 2012 Board Effectiveness Review summarised the chairmans contribution as follows: The Chairman has brought the Board through an exceptionally difficult time.
He is much respected for his wisdom and experience, and for rebuilding the Board to its present high quality.
He has been instrumental in the Group establishing good relationships with external stakeholders and is widely trusted.
in addition to the Board Effectiveness Review the process for which is described on page 89, a separate review of the chairmans performance is undertaken annually by the non-Executive directors.
For 2012, the review was led by Anthony Watson, senior independent director, who also provided feedback to the chairman on the findings.
The review focused on three key areas: leadership of the Board: effectiveness: and relations with shareholders.
The review was carried out through a questionnaire sent to all directors, follow up meetings with individual directors and a detailed discussion with the non-Executive directors in the absence of the chairman.
The Group chief Executive is responsible for: managing the business of the Group in accordance with the strategy and long term objectives approved by the Board: incurring capital and revenue expenditure, as appropriate, to meet the objectives set by the Board: and making decisions in all matters affecting the operations, performance and strategy of the Groups businesses, with the exception of those matters reserved to the Board.
Following a period of absence in 2011, the details of which were explained in last years report, the Group chief Executive, Antnio Horta-Osrio, returned to work in January 2012.
The Board has been impressed with his energy and commitment to the role as evidenced by the demonstrable progress made in delivering the strategy.
The Board through the chairman continues to monitor his progress and is confident that he has fully recovered.
Board effectiveness and governance The chairman of the Board leads the rolling review of the Boards effectiveness through, and with the support of, the nomination & Governance committee, which he also chairs.
To ensure a broad representation of independent views, including perspectives from each of the committees, membership of the nomination & Governance committee comprises the chairman, the deputy chairman, the senior independent director and the chairmen of the Audit, Risk and Remuneration committees.
Prior to his retirement from the Board in May 2012, sir Julian Horn-smith independent non-Executive director was also a member.
The Group chief Executive attends meetings as appropriate.
Key activities of the nomination & Governance committee are summarised in the committees section on page 96.
Given the importance of its role in ensuring effective governance of the Board, further detail of the essential aspects of the nomination & Governance committee are provided here.
Board composition The nomination & Governance committee is responsible for assisting the chairman in reviewing the overall composition of the Board, including its size, structure, independence and diversity.
To ensure transparency and consistency, the Board has established principles that underpin its approach to Board composition.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 88 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 cORPORATE GOVERnAncE REPORT Board size The Board should be of sufficient size to reflect a broad range of views and perspectives whilst allowing all directors to participate effectively in meetings.
At year end, the Board comprised 11 directors, down from 12 in 2011.
The size of the Board is within the optimal range set by the nomination & Governance committee.
Skills and experience The primary consideration when determining effectiveness is to ensure that the Board represents a mix of backgrounds and experience that will enhance the quality of its deliberations and decisions.
As part of the ongoing review of composition, specific skills required by the Board are identified with reference to the overall skills of the Board at the time, the need to address longer term succession and current business priorities.
All directors are required to have good and in most cases have deep experience and understanding of the banking and financial services sector.
The complexity of the Group means that broader skills are also required.
Maintaining the right balance is an ongoing priority.
More information on the background and experience of our directors is set out on pages 78 and 79.
The 2012 Board Effectiveness Review concluded that: The Chairman is credited with having assembled a very high calibre and committed Board.
Recent appointments have brought a wide range of experience, going beyond the core areas of retail banking and insurance to bring additional understanding of, in particular, consumer needs.
independence The Boards preference is to ensure a strong majority of independent directors.
At year end, the Board comprised two Executive directors, eight independent non-Executive directors and the chairman who was independent on appointment.
The nomination & Governance committee is responsible for the ongoing assessment of the independence of non-Executive directors.
in assessing independence, the committee does not rely solely on the code criteria but considers whether, in fact, the non-Executive director is demonstrably independent and free of relationships and other circumstances that could affect their judgement.
it does this with reference to the individual performance and conduct in reaching decisions.
it also takes account of any relationships that have been disclosed and authorised by the Board.
Based on its assessment for 2012, the nomination & Governance committee is satisfied that, throughout the year, all non-Executive directors remained independent as to both character and judgement.
Diversity The Board places great emphasis on ensuring that its membership reflects diversity in the broadest sense including diversity of gender, ethnicity and background.
The combination of personalities on the Board provides a good range of perspectives and challenge.
The Board continues to focus on improving gender diversity.
With the appointments of sara Weller and carolyn Fairbairn as non-Executive directors in 2012, the Board has shown demonstrable progress, raising the percentage of female representation on the Board from 8 per cent to 27 per cent, exceeding the 2015 target of 25 per cent recommended by the davies Review.
To assist in its search for non-Executive directors, the nomination & Governance committee engaged the services of JcA Group and Egon Zehnder, who are both signatories to the 30% clubs voluntary code of conduct and which promotes best practice for related search processes.
neither JcA Group nor Egon Zehnder are connected with the Group in any other capacity.
The 2012 Board Effectiveness review remarked that: The Board scores particularly well on diversity through having a very good combination of different backgrounds and personalities.
The mix seems to provide a good range of perspectives with at least one of the group usually ready to challenge from an unexpected angle.
Whilst gender diversity is improving at the Board level, the Board recognises that more needs to done to improve the representation of women in senior management roles.
The following table details the percentage of women employed at various levels of seniority within the Group at 31 december 2012 compared with statistics at the same date in 2011.
Workforce Gender Representation Female Board Members Female Senior Managers Female Managers All Female Staff 2012 27% 28% 45% 60% 2011 8% 26% 43% 60% The Board recognises that senior management is the feeder group from which future directors may eventually be selected.
To improve the representation of women in these roles, the Group has implemented a variety of initiatives.
These include: the Breakthrough Womens network, which boasts a talent pool in excess of 4,000 members: and Footprints in the snow, a female role model programme that showcases the career paths of the Groups most senior women, providing footprints and stepping stones for other women to follow, be inspired by and succeed.
in addition, the Group has a leading suite of policies to support working parents to achieve a sustainable work life balance.
These efforts have been recognised by our positive placing in the Times Top 50 Employers for Women and through the Breaking the Mould awards.
More information on the Groups commitment to diversity can be found on page 37.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Board of Directors 78 88 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group Executive Committee 80 Directors report 82 Corporate governance report 86 Directors remuneration report 98 Other remuneration disclosures 114 1 18 115 203 355 Succession planning The nomination & Governance committee oversees the Boards arrangements for the longer term succession of Board and committee members.
non-Executive director succession planning is addressed as part of the ongoing review of Board composition.
The policy takes account of the need regularly to refresh the intake of non-Executives to bring new, diverse perspectives to the Board and its deliberations, to ensure appropriate representation on each of the Boards committees and to plan for longer term succession.
The average tenure of the non-Executive directors is approximately two and a half years.
Following the move to annual re-election of directors, non-Executive directors are appointed on a rolling 12 month basis.
The chairman is responsible for developing and maintaining a succession plan in relation to the Group chief Executive and for reviewing the plan with the nomination & Governance committee at least annually.
A detailed exercise was undertaken in 2012 to identify potential internal and external successors to the Group chief Executive both for contingency purposes and on a longer term development basis.
The nomination & Governance committee and the Board are responsible for oversight of the process for succession, management development of the most senior executives both at and below Board level, including Executive directors and members of the Group Executive committee.
The primary responsibility for developing and maintaining a succession plan for key leadership positions in the senior executive team rests with the Group chief Executive.
Arrangements are reviewed with the nomination & Governance committee at least annually with the latest review taking place in september 2012.
Board effectiveness review The annual evaluation of the Boards effectiveness provides an opportunity to consider ways of identifying greater efficiencies, maximising strengths and highlighting areas for further development.
After conducting external reviews in 2009 and 2010, we conducted an internal review in 2011.
Key actions arising from that review included the need for increased focus on executive succession and improving the quality and timeliness of board papers.
Both of these have been addressed in 2012 to the Boards satisfaction.
As explained below, further improving the information provided to the Board to reflect the refocusing of the agenda will remain a priority for 2013. in 2012, the Board engaged independent Audit to conduct a review.
independent Audit, which has no other connection with the Group, considered the Boards performance principally by reference to the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group, its diversity, including gender, and how the Board works together as a unit.
The evaluation was conducted between October and december 2012 and consisted of: one to one interviews with the directors, the company secretary, members of the Group Executive committee and other senior management: observation of Board and committee meetings held in november 2012: and a review of the 2012 Board and committee minutes and a selection of papers.
The findings of the 2012 review stressed the progress made under the chairmans leadership with strong support from experienced committee chairmen.
it identified a number of key strengths including: a high calibre and committed Board with a wide range of skills: a high degree of trust between Executive and non-Executive directors: extensive contact between the non-Executive directors and management at various levels: and a clear programme to strengthen the Boards governance and oversight of the insurance business.
inevitably, it also identified areas for further efficiencies and effectiveness.
The 2012 review was conducted following a period of significant transformation of the Board, with a substantial change in its membership.
The period was marked by a discernible shift from crisis management towards building a sustainable business.
This move towards recovery provides an opportunity to refocus the Boards attention.
The 2013 action plan centres around the following key themes: Refocusing of the Board Agenda.
As the business continues to stabilise, the Board will look to spend an increasing proportion of its time on forward looking matters, reducing the time it spends on operational and business critical matters.
A refocusing of the agenda is planned to allow more time for strategic discussion and debate.
The content of board packs will also be reviewed to ensure that directors receive the information they need including more routine reporting of strategic matters centred around customers, competitors, colleagues and culture.
Given the relative newness of the Board, further opportunities will be sought for directors, particularly non-Executive directors, to meet outside formal meetings to assist them in coming together as a team.
The cycle of Board meetings and events will be reviewed to allow greater opportunity for directors to spend time together outside the boardroom.
After the induction period, ongoing training is primarily provided at Board meetings or via deep dive sessions.
A more structured approach to continuing development will be introduced along similar lines to the induction programme which includes a series of half day workshops and focused training sessions.
The company will report on the progress of the above action plan in the 2013 annual report.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 90 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 cORPORATE GOVERnAncE REPORT Appointments in 2012, as part of its longer term succession planning, the Board identified the need for a number of new directors.
The nomination & Governance committee, supported by executive search firms JcA Group and Egon Zehnder respectively, conducted the search for the following appointments which were made during 2012: sara Weller, non-Executive director, who was nominated for her strong customer advocacy and technology experience in February 2012: George culmer, Executive director, who was appointed Group Finance director in May 2012: lord Blackwell, non-Executive director and chair of the insurance Board, who was appointed for his insurance, banking and consulting expertise in June 2012: and carolyn Fairbairn, non Executive director, who was appointed for her digital and on-line, strategy, public policy and regulatory knowledge in June 2012.
On 28 February 2013, the Group announced that nick luff would join the Board on 5 March 2013 as a non-Executive director and, in due course, successor to Martin scicluna as chair of the Audit committee.
nick, who has over 10 years experience as a finance director, has recent and relevant financial expertise and a sound understanding of internal reporting and controls.
The nomination & Governance committee is currently conducting the search for Tim Ryans successor.
in August 2012, claire davies succeeded Harry Baines as company secretary.
Harry is thanked for his dedication and wise counsel.
election and re-election All directors appointed to the Board since the annual general meeting in 2012 will stand for election at the 2013 annual general meeting.
All other directors will retire and those willing to serve again will submit themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting.
Biographies of all current directors are set out on pages 78 and 79. details of the directors seeking election or re-election at the annual general meeting are set out in the notice of Meeting.
Time commitment As in recent years, the time commitment demanded of non-Executive directors in 2012 remained substantially in excess of the time envisaged within the terms of their appointment.
However, the Board timetable returned to largely scheduled meetings as the need for ad hoc meetings declined.
The average expected time commitment for non-Executive directors including attendance at committee meetings is between 30 35 days.
For committee chairs, this increases to 40 50 days with the senior independent director and deputy chairman spending considerably more than 50 days on the companys business.
All of these expected time commitments were significantly exceeded in 2012.
There has been no increase to non-Executive director fees since January 2008.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Board of Directors 78 90 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group Executive Committee 80 Directors report 82 Corporate governance report 86 Directors remuneration report 98 Other remuneration disclosures 114 1 18 115 203 355 Attendance at meetings in 2012, a total of 10 Board meetings were held of which eight were scheduled at the start of the year.
in addition, Board members attended the annual general meeting held in Edinburgh and a two day off-site strategy session.
The attendance of directors at Board meetings and at meetings of the Audit, nomination & Governance, Remuneration and Risk committees is shown in the table below.
Whilst all directors are invited to, and regularly attend other committee meetings, only their attendance at committees of which they are members is recorded in the table below.
Lloyds Banking Group Board nomination & Scheduled Ad hoc Governance Remuneration Meetings Meetings Audit Committee Committee Committee Risk Committee 1 1 1,2 1 1 1 Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Current Directors who served during 2012 sir Winfried Bischoff 8 8 2 2 3 3 10 10 6 6 Antnio Horta-Osrio 8 8 1 2 lord Blackwell 4 4 11 11 3 3 M G culmer 5 5 c J Fairbairn 4 4 10 11 4 4 A M Frew 8 8 2 2 15 15 6 6 d l Roberts 8 8 2 2 15 15 3 3 10 10 6 6 T T Ryan 8 8 2 2 6 7 10 10 5 6 M A scicluna 7 8 2 2 14 15 3 3 5 6 Anthony Watson 7 8 1 2 14 15 3 3 10 10 s V Weller 7 7 1 1 8 8 5 5 Former Directors who served during 2012 sir Julian Horn-smith 3 4 1 2 1 1 3 6 2 3 lord leitch 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 2 4 G R Moreno 3 4 2 2 1 1 G T Tate 1 1 1 T J W Tookey 2 2 1 1 1 number of meetings held during the period that the director held office.
2 includes four special purpose deep dive meetings.
Directors induction All directors are expected to make an informed contribution based on an understanding of the Groups business model and the key challenges facing the Group and its businesses.
All directors undergo an extensive induction programme comprising: a corporate induction, including an introduction to the Board and the business.
This includes a detailed overview of the Group, its strategy, operational structures and main business activities: the roles and responsibilities of a director, including statutory duties and responsibilities of an FsA approved person: and a bespoke induction programme tailored by the chairman to the individual needs of the director having regard to their specific role on the Board and their skills and experience to date.
Board training The Board receives regular refresher training and information sessions to address current business or emerging issues.
in the course of 2012, non-Executives directors undertook approximately 16 to 18 hours of training.
This was delivered through a variety of means, including: sessions on matters such as capital and liquidity including stress testing requirements : regulatory updates for approved persons: accounting development updates: and updates on credit rating agency developments.
in addition, the Audit committee hosted a series of deep dives to which all Board members were invited, and which provided an in-depth review of the operations of each of the business divisions and of the latest accounting standards and operating methodologies.
All directors, including non-Executive directors, have access to the services of the company secretary in relation to discharging their duties as a director, or as a member of any Board committee.
The appointment, and removal, of the company secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
in addition, the Group provides access, at its expense, to the services of external advisers in order to assist directors in their role, wherever this is deemed necessary.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 92 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 cORPORATE GOVERnAncE REPORT Accountability internal control The Board is responsible for the establishment and review of the Groups system of internal control, which is designed to ensure effective and efficient operations: quality of internal and external reporting: internal control: and compliance with laws and regulations.
it should be noted, however, that such a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
in establishing and reviewing the system of internal control, the directors have regard to the nature and extent of relevant risks, the likelihood of a loss being incurred and the costs of control.
it follows, therefore, that the system of internal control can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against the risk of material loss.
The directors and senior management are committed to maintaining a control-conscious culture across all areas of operation.
This is communicated to all employees by way of published policies and procedures and regular management briefings.
A requirement to comply with internal control risk policies is a key component of individual staff objectives expressed in the balanced scorecard.
Key business risks are identified, and these are controlled by means of procedures such as physical controls, credit, trading and other authorisation limits and segregation of duties.
in addition, there is an annual evaluation review exercise whereby the key businesses and head office functions review specific controls and attest to the accuracy of their assessments.
The review covers all enterprise-wide risk management categories and is in accordance with the principles of the code.
As in previous years, this exercise was completed for the year ended 31 december 2012.
All returns have been satisfactorily completed and appropriately certified.
The effectiveness of the internal control system is reviewed regularly by the Board and the Audit committee, which also receives reports of reviews undertaken by Risk division and internal audit.
The Audit committee receives reports from the companys auditors,  llP which include details of significant internal control matters that they have identified, and has a discussion with the auditors at least once a year without executives present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the company.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the annual report and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
information regarding the main features of the internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process is given within the Risk Management Report on pages 115 to 202.
Auditor independence and remuneration Both the Board and the external auditors have safeguards in place to protect the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Audit committee has a comprehensive policy to regulate the use of auditors for non-audit services.
This policy sets out the nature of work the external auditors may not undertake, which includes work which will ultimately be subject to external audit, internal audit services and secondments to senior management positions in the Group that involve decision-making.
it also includes the Groups policy on hiring former external audit staff.
For those services that are deemed appropriate for the auditors to carry out, the policy sets out the approval process that must be followed for each type of assignment.
The chairman of the Audit committee must be consulted regarding potential instructions in respect of allowable non-audit services with a value above defined fee limits.
Each year the Audit committee establishes a limit on the fees that can be paid to the external auditors in respect of non-audit services and monitors quarterly the amounts paid to the auditors in this regard.
The external auditors also report regularly to the Audit committee on the actions that they have taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and current best practice in order to maintain their independence.
This includes the rotation of key members of the audit team.
Total auditor remuneration analysed between audit and other services is shown in note 11 to the financial statements on pages 241 and 242.
The Audit committee evaluated the performance of the external auditors during the year and will continue to do so periodically.
The Audit committee did not consider it necessary to require an independent tender process this year.
The lead audit partner is rotated every five years, the current audit partner having joined the audit team in 2011.
The need for a further audit tender will be kept under consideration by the committee and any recommendation to re-appoint the current auditors will be based on their continued satisfactory performance.
Remuneration The Remuneration committee, chaired by Anthony Watson, is responsible for overseeing the Groups remuneration arrangements and compliance with the FsAs Remuneration code.
The Remuneration committees terms of reference are available on the website at www.
An overview of the Remuneration committee is set out on page 96.
The work of the Remuneration committee is explained in the directors Remuneration Report on pages 98 to 114.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Board of Directors 78 92 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group Executive Committee 80 Directors report 82 Corporate governance report 86 Directors remuneration report 98 Other remuneration disclosures 114 1 18 115 203 355 Shareholder engagement The Board recognises the importance of promoting mutual understanding between the company and its shareholders through greater engagement.
in 2012, there was regular dialogue with institutional shareholders with more than 400 equity investor meetings undertaken in the year.
Many of these meetings were undertaken by senior management primarily the Group chief Executive and Group Finance director or other Board members.
The chairman has also attended a number of meetings with shareholders to discuss governance and the Group's strategic direction.
Anthony Watson, the chairman of the Remuneration committee and the senior independent director, regularly meets the larger shareholders to listen to their views and discuss executive remuneration issues.
The 2011 Remuneration Report received overwhelming support from shareholders at the 2011 annual general meeting with over 97 per cent of the shareholders approving the Report.
This was achieved through tough action by the Remuneration committee in exercising constraint over remuneration and through effective engagement with major shareholders.
The Board is kept advised of the views of major shareholders by means of regular updates at Board and committee meetings.
it also receives monthly reports on market and investor sentiment and shareholder analysis.
investor Relations has primary responsibility for managing day-to-day communications with institutional shareholders.
supported by the Group chief Executive and Group Finance director, they achieve this through a combination of briefings to analysts and institutional shareholders both at results briefings and throughout the year, as well as site visits and individual discussions with institutional shareholders.
The company secretary oversees communications with private shareholders.
The Groups annual general meeting provides an opportunity to meet the Groups directors and to hear more about the strategy of the Group.
shareholders are encouraged to attend the annual general meeting and to raise any questions at the meeting or in advance, using the email address shown in the pack which will be sent to shareholders in March 2013.
Scottish Widows investment Partnership scottish Widows investment Partnership, one of Europes largest asset managers and a Group company, complies with the principles of the Financial Reporting councils stewardship code.
details of scottish Widows investment Partnerships approach to stewardship and corporate governance can be found on its website, www.
Compliance with the British Bankers Association Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure in september 2010, the British Bankers Association published a code for Financial Reporting disclosure the disclosure code.
The disclosure code sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance.
The principles are that uK banks: commit to providing high quality, meaningful and decision-useful disclosures: commit to ongoing review of, and enhancement to, their financial instrument disclosures for key areas of interest: will assess the applicability and relevance of good practice recommendations to their disclosures acknowledging the importance of such guidance: will seek to enhance the comparability of financial statement disclosures across the uK banking sector: and will clearly differentiate in their annual reports between information that is audited and information that is unaudited.
The Group has adopted the disclosure code and its 2012 financial statements have been prepared in compliance with the disclosure codes principles.
Conclusion in conclusion, the Group confirms its compliance with all provisions of the code throughout the year ending 31 december 2012. in addition, the Group has voluntarily applied certain new code provisions, in particular the board diversity and evaluation provisions.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 94 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 cORPORATE GOVERnAncE REPORT Board committees set out below is a summary of the membership and role of each of the Board committees, along with the activities they performed during 2012.
There is a standing invitation for all non-Executive directors to attend committee meetings of which they are not members.
non-Executive directors routinely attend committees of which they are not members.
All committee terms of reference are available on the website, www.
com or from the company secretary.
Committee Purpose To monitor, review and report to the Board on the formal arrangements established by the Board AUDiT in respect of the financial and narrative reporting of the Group, the internal controls and the risk management framework, the internal audit and the external audit process.
Chairman Responsibilities Martin scicluna Financial Statements and Reporting of the Group Members monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Group relating to the Groups financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting issues and the judgements which they contain: lord Blackwell from 1 June 2012 provides advice to the Board on whether the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess carolyn Fairbairn the companys performance, business model and strategy: from 1 June 2012 reviews and challenges where necessary, the actions, estimates and judgements of management Anita Frew in relation to the financial statements: reviews any significant adjustments to financial reporting resulting from the audit and resolves any lord leitch disagreements between management and the external auditors regarding financial reporting: and until 29 February 2012 reviews the quality and acceptability of the related accounting policies, practices and financial david Roberts reporting disclosures.
Tim Ryan until 1 september 2012 internal Controls and the Risk Management Framework reviews the effectiveness of the systems for internal control, risk management and compliance with Anthony Watson financial services legislation and regulations: reviews the Groups procedures for detecting financial reporting fraud: reviews the Groups procedures for handling of complaints or concerns regarding accounting or auditing matters: and reviews the Groups arrangements by which staff of the company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
internal Audit reviews and monitors the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and activities, in the context of the Groups overall risk management system: approve the appointment or removal of the Group Audit director as head of the internal audit function: review the internal audit programme and ensure that the internal audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate access to information: and consider the major findings of any significant internal audit escalated to the committee by the Group Audit director and consider managements responses.
external Auditors recommends the external auditors appointment, re-appointment and removal: approves the external auditors terms of engagement and remuneration: assesses the external auditors effectiveness, independence and objectivity: approves the provision of non audit services by the external auditor and related remuneration: agree with the Board a policy on the employment of former employees of the Groups auditors and monitoring the implementation of this policy: reviews reports from the auditors on audit planning and their findings, significant issues and judgements on accounting and internal control systems: and reviews the results of the external audit and its cost effectiveness.
Other Matters undertake similar duties for all subsidiary companies where a legal or regulatory provision requires audit committee involvement except where the subsidiary companys board has appointed a separate audit committee.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Board of Directors 78 94 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group Executive Committee 80 Directors report 82 Corporate governance report 86 Directors remuneration report 98 Other remuneration disclosures 114 1 18 115 203 355 Committee Purpose 2012 Activities AudiT reviewed, challenged and recommended to the Board the Group annual and interim reports and accounts: reviewed significant accounting issues, matters and judgements as discussed with the auditors see table below : reviewed the Groups position as a going concern: reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditor, recommended their re-appointment and determined their remuneration: attended four half day deep dive sessions with each of the divisions: reviewed litigation and regulatory risks: received reports from the divisional Financial control committees and the Group Risk committee: received a report from the Group secretariat on corporate Governance changes relevant to the Audit committee: reviewed internal controls across the Group, including through participating in deep dive meetings on each of the main divisions within the Group and receiving reports from the internal audit department on items such as sOX reporting: reviewed the Groups key finance programmes: considered the appointment of the Group Audit director: reviewed details of the Groups whistle blowing procedures and incidents: and discussed the level of impairments.
Significant Accounting Matters during the year, the committee considered the following significant accounting issues, matters and judgements in relation to the Groups financial statements and disclosures: issue Approach Allowance for impairment losses Reviewed and challenged the impairment methodologies and on loans and receivables assumptions and were satisfied that they were appropriate.
Fair value of financial instruments Reviewed the appropriateness of the judgements made by management in valuing certain portfolios of assets and liabilities and were satisfied that these judgements were appropriate.
Recoverability of deferred considered the recognition of deferred tax assets and agreed tax assets with managements judgement that the deferred tax assets were appropriately supported by forecast taxable profits.
Retirement benefit obligations considered the assumptions underlying the calculation of defined benefit liabilities and were satisfied that they were appropriate.
Valuation of assets and liabilities considered and challenged the assumptions underlying the arising from life insurance calculation of assets and liabilities arising from the life insurance business business and were satisfied that they were appropriate.
Payment protection insurance considered the assumptions made by management in determining PPi the provision for PPi redress, and were content that the assumptions were appropriate, although they will be considered periodically against actual claims experience.
Other regulatory provisions considered the assumptions made by management to redress provision for several regulatory matters.
These matters included litigation in relation to our insurance branch business in Germany and sales of interest rate hedging products to certain small and medium-sized businesses.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 96 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 cORPORATE GOVERnAncE REPORT Committee Purpose To keep the Boards governance arrangements under review and make appropriate recommendations nOMinATiOn & to the Board to ensure that the companys arrangements are consistent with best practice corporate GOveRnAnCe governance standards: and to assist the chairman in keeping the composition of the Board under review and to lead the appointments process for nominations to the Board.
Chairman Responsibilities sir Winfried Bischoff oversees the Boards governance arrangements: oversees the Groups implementation of governance requirements in particular reviewing the Members Governance Frameworks: sir Julian Horn-smith reviews the overall composition of the Board including its size, diversity, independence and structure: until 17 May 2012 considers Board succession: lord leitch oversees the selection process for prospective directors: until 29 February 2012 makes recommendations to the Board on potential appointments and reappointments of directors at the end of their specified term, including the ongoing review of independence: Glen Moreno until 17 May 2012 review of membership of Board committees: oversees the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board: and david Roberts oversees the process for appointments of new non-Executive directors and makes recommendations Martin scicluna to the Board.
Anthony Watson 2012 Activities reviewed Board composition including the Groups continued response to the davies Review and diversity targets: oversaw the search and selection process for new non-Executive directors: oversaw the Board Evaluation process including formulation of the actions arising from the outcomes of the evaluation: reviewed the Governance Framework to ensure consistency with organisational changes and emerging developments: regularly reviewed developments in the regulatory environment around corporate governance: and reviewed the adequacy of the Groups succession plan.
Committee Purpose To set the principles and parameters of remuneration policy for the Group, and to oversee remuneration ReMUneRATiOn policy and outcomes for those colleagues specified in the terms of reference Chairman Responsibilities Anthony Watson information about the Remuneration committees responsibilities is given in the directors remuneration report on pages 98 to 114.
Members 2012 Activities sir Winfried Bischoff information about the Remuneration committees activities during 2012 is given in the directors remuneration report on pages 98 to 114. carolyn Fairbairn from 1 June 2012 sir Julian Horn-smith until 17 May 2012 lord leitch until 29 February 2012 david Roberts Tim Ryan sara Weller from 1 February 2012 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Board of Directors 78 96 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group Executive Committee 80 Directors report 82 Corporate governance report 86 Directors remuneration report 98 Other remuneration disclosures 114 1 18 115 203 355 Committee Purpose To review and report its conclusions to the Board on the Groups risk appetite the extent and categories RiSK of risk which the Board regards as acceptable for the company to bear and the Groups risk management framework embracing principles, policies, methodologies, systems, processes, procedures and people, Chairman taking a forward looking perspective and anticipating changes in business conditions.
david Roberts Responsibilities oversees the development, implementation and maintenance of the Groups overall risk management Members framework and its risk appetite, strategy, principles and policies to ensure that they are in line with emerging regulatory, corporate governance and industry best practice: sir Winfried Bischoff lord Blackwell oversees the Groups risk exposure, risk return and proposed improvements to the Groups risk from 1 June 2012 management framework and its risk appetite: facilitates the involvement of non-Executive directors in risk issues and aids their understanding Anita Frew of these issues: sir Julian Horn-smith provides input to the Remuneration committee on the alignment of remuneration to risk performance: until 17 May 2012 reviews the appointment or dismissal of the chief Risk Officer: Tim Ryan reviews coordination between the Group Risk division and the external auditors: Martin scicluna oversees adherence to Group risk policies and standards and considers any material amendments Anthony Watson to them: and from 1 december 2012 reviews the work and resources of the Group Risk division.
sara Weller 2012 Activities from 1 February 2012 reviewed and enhanced the Groups risk appetite framework, policies and principles: at each meeting, reviewed the Groups consolidated risk profile, key risks and management actions, together with performance against risk appetite.
details of the Groups principal risks are set out in the risk management section on pages 118 to 124: reviewed conduct risk at each meeting, including product governance and conduct strategy, complaints, outcome testing and mitigating actions: reviewed the Groups capital and funding plan under the Group and FsA stress testing scenarios, including scenarios developed by the Risk committee: reviewed the internal capital Adequacy Assessment Process report: received reports on the economic outlook, international regulatory relationships, pension and hedging risks, longevity risk within insurance, anti-money laundering and financial crime and iT resilience and cyber security: and four deep dives in conjunction with the Audit committee on risk arising from each of the divisions and including the critical iT infrastructure and systems operated by the Group.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
