52 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee Composition and responsibilities The Committee is chaired by Paul Heiden who provides recent and relevant financial experience through his chartered accountant qualification and career in a variety of senior finance roles.
In addition the Board is satisfied that each member of the Committee has the skills and experience necessary to enable the Committee to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
The names and qualifications of the members of the Audit and Risk Committee are provided on pages 44 to 45.
Further details of who normally attends meetings and the Committees terms of reference, which are approved by the Board and reviewed on an on-going basis, are available from the Group This report is intended to give an understanding of the Company Secretary or at the corporate governance section of the role of the Audit and Risk Committee in assisting the Board Companys website at www.
to fulfil its oversight responsibilities for risk management The Committee may obtain, at the Groups expense, legal and other and the systems of internal control, and the integrity of independent professional advice on any matter within its terms of the Groups financialstatements.
No such advice was sought by the Committee during the In addition to the Committees regular responsibilities, year.
The Chairman reports to the subsequent meeting of the Board during the year the Committee has reviewed the due on the Committees work.
diligence processes undertaken as part of the proposed Activities merger with TMX Group, the acquisition of the remaining The Committee maintains a formal agenda which ensures that all 50 per cent share of FTSE and the proposed acquisition matters for which the Committee are responsible are considered at of a majority shareholding in LCH.
Clearnet Group the appropriate meeting.
During the year the Committee discharged Limited.
Priorities in the forthcoming year will include its responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference by reviewing the Groups on-going efforts to further enhance its risk the following: management framework and the application of our risk and internal control policies to newly acquired businesses.
the Groups annual and half-yearly reporting including significant I am confident that the Committee is well placed to meet financial reporting judgements made by management.
Particular the challenges of the changingorganisation.
focus has been placed during the year under review on the accounting treatment of the acquisition of shares in CC&G and FTSE.
The Committee paid particular attention to the revaluation of the Groups existing interest in FTSE to market value and valuation of the intangible assets inherent in the business.
As in prior years it has also reviewed the process and key assumptions Paul Heiden in the evaluation of goodwill for impairment.
For further details Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee on the impairment testing see note 13 to the accounts.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the process that the Board has conducted to conclude that the financial statements should be prepared on agoing concern basis: compliance with the Group risk management procedures as Audit and Risk Committee meeting attendance in the year described in the section on internal controls on pages 50 to 51. ended 31March 2012 As part of its rolling programme of review of divisional risk registers the Committee also reviewed the management of risk Scheduled Ad hoc Total within the Capital Markets, Post Trade, Information Services, Number of Meetings 4 1 5 MillenniumIT and Technology divisions: Paul Heiden 4 4 1 1 5 the due diligence processes and financial information contained in the shareholder documentation together with the processes for Baroness Janet Cohen 4 4 1 1 5 producing the relevant working capitalstatements in respect of the Gay Huey Evans 4 4 1 1 5 proposed transactions with TMX Group and LCH.
Clearnet Group Andrea Munari 3 4 1 1 4 Limited, and the due diligence process undertaken in respect of 1 Massimo Tononi 3 3 1 1 4 the FTSE acquisition: the financing considerations of the FTSE and LCH.
Clearnet 1 Massimo Tononi joined the Committee in September 2011 and was Group Limited acquisitions including the new committed therefore only required to attend 4 meetings 350million revolving credit facility secured in December 2011: the approach to risk in the Groups tax strategy: the Groups on-going strengthening of its business : the internal audit annual plan and key findings from reviews and actions taken in response by management.
In addition the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the : Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Governance Annual Report 2012 53 the appointment of the new Head of Internal Audit & Risk: In the year ended 31 March 2012, the substantial majority the external auditors report and findings from the half-year of other non-audit services related to services provided by review and year end audit: and  in relation to the proposed merger the Groups arrangements for dealing in confidence with with TMX Group and the proposed acquisition of a majority employee whistle-blowing complaints.
These services included financial due diligence work and reporting accountant External audit activities in connection with the relevant Prospectus and The Committee undertakes an annual evaluation of the Circulars to shareholders.
independence and objectivity, qualifications, expertise and resources of the external auditors.
The assessment also includes The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed each of these individual the effectiveness of the audit process.
appointments on their merits, prior to  being engaged.
The process involved considering managements  LLP have been the Groups auditors for assessment of: many years.
Under Italian law, the auditors of regulated entities are appointed for nine years and therefore, following our merger which accounting firms had the appropriate experience in 2008,  were appointed as auditors and expertise to undertake the work: of Borsa Italiana until the year ended 31 March 2016 replacing whether there were any conflicts of interest for Deloitte.
Borsa Italiana can replace  : for just cause at any time during the appointment, although whether the conflicts of interest that existed for other along with , would have to explain the potential firms, who were either advising other parties to reasons to CONSOB the Italian regulatory body.
The auditors the transactions or were auditors of the other company, must be replaced at the end of the nine year tenure and cannot could be appropriately managed: and be re-appointed within three years.
the quantum of non-audit fees in the context of the overall auditfee and relative significance to  The external auditors independence and objectivity is maintained in the context of their total client fees.
via a variety of safeguards: In each case the Audit and Risk Committee concluded, based on the On a periodic basis the external auditors are required to provide balance of risks, that the appointment of  written confirmation of all relationships with the Group and the represented the most effective, secure and efficient way of obtaining actions they take to comply with professional and regulatory the necessary advice and services, given their knowledge of requirements designed to ensure their independence: our business and the Groups structure and accounting and tax As required by their own rules and relevant professional standards affairs together with their wider knowledge of our industry sector,  rotate the lead engagement partner at particularly as other smaller firms lacked sufficient relevant industry least every five years.
The current audit partner has been in place experience.
To mitigate the residual risk,  for three years: maintained separate teams, distinct from the audit team, on the There are restrictions on the employment of former employees of corporate finance transactional work.
Under the Group policy any partners involved in the audit of the Group would not be employed by the Group The Company has also engaged other accounting firms on until at least two years have lapsed from the end of their transactional work during the year, selecting the appropriate firms involvement: and based on the criteria above, and the fees for these assignment are The Committee has adopted a policy on the provision of non-audit included alongside  and other advisers services by the external auditor and monitors compliance with costswithin the transaction costs disclosed in note 7 to the accounts.
Copies are available from the Group Company The Committee is satisfied that the framework outlined above Secretary or at the corporate governance section of the Companys ensures that  maintain the required level website at www.
of independence and objectivity, that their external audit process A breakdown of audit and non-audit service fees paid and payable remains effective and the fee payable in respect of audit services to the external auditors for the year ended 31 March 2012 is provided is appropriate to ensure that an adequate audit can be performed.
below and in note 33 to the accounts: Accordingly, the Group does not consider it necessary to tender for the provision of audit services at this time.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Groups choice of external 2012 2011 auditor except as highlighted above in relation to Borsa Italiana.
m m On the recommendation of the Committee, the Board will propose Audit of parent company and consolidated accounts 0.2 0.2  for re-election as auditor at the Audit of subsidiary companies 0.9 0.8 Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 18 July 2012.
Other audit related 0.3 0.2 Other non-audit services Taxation 0.1 0.3 Corporate finance 2.8 0.3 Other assurance services 0.4 Total 4.3 2.2
