Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Shareholder information Annual Report 2012 115 Investor relations Shareholder services Substantial Shareholders Equiniti registrars shareview service As at 18 May 2012 the Company had been notified of the following Shareholders who hold London Stock Exchange Group shares in interests amounting to more than three per cent in the issued certificated form or within Equiniti Investment Account or ISA share capital of the Company in accordance with DTR 5 of the can access Shareview.
Shareview is a free service provided by FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules: our registrars, Equiniti.
Itmay beaccessed through the internet at www.
Bycreating a Shareview portfolio, you Borse Dubai Limited 20.6% will gain online access toinformation about your London Stock Qatar Investment Authority 15.1% Exchange Group shares and other investmentsincluding: UniCredit S. p. A.
6.0% Direct access to information held for you on the share Intesa Sanpaolo S. p. A.
5.3% register including share movements: A daily indicative valuation of all investments held FIL Limited 5.0% in your portfolio: and Legal & General Group plc 3.9% A range of information and practical help for shareholders.
To register at Shareview you will need your shareholder reference which can be found on your share certificate and you will be asked to select your own personal identification number.
A user ID will then be posted to you.
If you have any problems in registering your portfolio for the Shareview service, please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2544.
Calls to this number are charged at eight pence per minute from a BTlandline.
Other telephone providers costs may vary.
For calls from outside the UK, please contact Equiniti on 44 121 415 7047.
Please note that you should only use electronic addresses included in this Annual Report for the purposes expressly stated.
Groups share price service To obtain share price information for London Stock Exchange Group plc, please see our website at: www.
By clicking on the Investor Relations tab you will find the Companys share price, historical closing prices and volumes andan interactive share price graph.
Alerting service To receive email alerts when financial reports, news releases and webcasts are posted on our Investor Relations website, register at: www.
com and follow the link in the section on financial performance reports and key documents.
