46 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Board effectiveness This year the Board appointed Spencer Stuart to carry out a review of its effectiveness.
The process and findings are described on page49.
Following this review, I am satisfied that the Board continues to perform well.
Succession planning One of my duties as Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination Committee is leading the work to ensure that the balance of skills and experience on the Board remains appropriate.
In the year ended 31 March 2011, four new Directors joined the Board.
Following these changes, and against the backdrop of a period of intense corporate activity, the Board considered that the Group and its shareholders The Corporate Governance Report which follows is intended were best served by a period of stability in the membership of the to give shareholders an understanding of the Groups corporate Board.
The Board will review its composition in the coming year.
governance arrangements and how they operated during the Succession planning was also one of the key issues considered by year, including how the Group complied with the principles the review of Board effectiveness described above.
In particular, of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
the Board considered its composition as the Group diversifies Board focus and extends the geographies within which it operates.
Based on The Boards agenda and focus in the year ended 31 March 2012 the feedback from the review, the Board recognises the benefits of has been driven by the important steps the Group has taken in having a mixture of skills and experience and that a one size fits progressing the Groups strategy through its acquisition of the all approach is not appropriate in considering board composition.
remaining 50 per cent share of FTSE International Limited and For the Company, this means that we intend to continue to draw in seeking to acquire a majority stake in LCH.
Clearnet Group Directors from a range of business backgrounds with experience Limited.
The Boards deep consideration of and engagement in gained directly in the financial markets in which the Group these transactions is reflected in the scheduling of 14 Board operates and also in the wider business environment.
The Board meetings, often on short notice, over and above the six scheduled also believes it is important to have a balance between Directors meetings a year, together with additional meetings of the Audit with a longstanding knowledge of the Group and Directors who and Risk and Remuneration Committees.
Given the relative size bring a newer perspective.
and complexity of the LCH.
Clearnet business, these additional Investor engagement meetings were principally related to the LCH.
Shareholder engagement and support remains central to our The Board is very mindful of its responsibility to consider the planning and thinking.
This was again particularly important nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take when pursuing in another year of corporate activity.
We have a comprehensive the Groups strategic objectives.
The Boards discussions, therefore, investor relations programme which is described in more detail focused not only on the ability of such transactions to meet our in this Corporate Governance Report.
The Board receives regular strategic objectives and deliver value for shareholders but also updates on shareholder feedback at each of its meetings so that on identifying and managing risk.
The review of risk was also it is aware of shareholders views and concerns.
Shareholders are supported by the Audit and Risk Committee.
also offered the opportunity to meet with the Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and me The Board has also continued its programme of visiting its overseas asappropriate.
businesses and meeting local management.
The Board held one of its meetings in Milan and also carried out a more extensive trip to Sri Lanka home to the Groups technology business, MillenniumIT.
Chris Gibson-Smith Chairman Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Governance Annual Report 2012 47 Corporate governance report Matters considered in FY2012 Complying with the provisions of the UK Corporate Each meeting Annually Throughout the year GovernanceCode Reports from the Health and safety Detailed consideration The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance Chief Executive on and approval of significant and business integrity in all of its activities.
Throughout the year performance in each merger and acquisition ended 31 March 2012 the Company has complied with all provisions of the business areas, opportunities including: of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
regulatory strategy, TMX Group Inc. public affairs and including approval of The UK Corporate Governance Code sets out guidance in the regulatory matters Prospectus and Class 1 form of main principles and more specific provisions for good circular governance in relation to board leadership, effectiveness, LCH.
Clearnet, accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
including approval of Class 1 circular The Financial Services Authority requires companies with a and Offer Document premium listing of equity shares in the UK to disclose, in relation FTSE to the UK Corporate Governance Code, how they have applied its TRS main principles and whether they have complied with all relevant provisions throughout the year.
Where the relevant provisions Reports from the Chief Off-site strategy day, Discussion and approval Financial Officer on the including three year of Group risk register have not been complied with, companies must provide an financial performance business plan explanation for their non-compliance.
Further information and position of the on the UK Corporate Governance Code can be found on the Group, investor relations Financial Reporting Councils website, at www.
activity and Treasury and HRmatters This Corporate Governance Report forms part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page65 of the DirectorsReport.
Updates from the FSAs risk mitigation Discussion and approval Boardcommittees programme together of Group strategy Board of Directors with FSA presentation Role of the Board Review of Approval of new Save As The Board is the principal decision-making forum for the Group independence of You Earn Plan and is responsible to shareholders for achieving the Groups Directors pursuant strategic objectives and for delivering sustainable growth in to UK Corporate Governance Code shareholder value.
Directors act in a way they consider will promote the long-term success of the Company for the benefit Budget Review of quarterly financial forecasts and of shareholders as a whole, with regard to the interests of the funding of acquisitions Groups employees, the impact of the business on the community and environment and the interests of stakeholders.
The Board Presentations from CC&G on the approach to risk has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved management in current to itincluding: financial markets establishing, reviewing and maintaining the corporate strategy: the annual budget: The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and increases or significant variations in the terms separate with a clear division of responsibilities.
The Chairman of borrowingfacilities: is responsible for the running and leadership of the Board and committing to major capital expenditure or acquisitions: and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive has delegated dividend policy.
authority from, and is responsible to, the Board for managing the business with the power for further delegation in respect The Board also views the brands and reputations of its subsidiaries of matters which are necessary for the effective running and as important assets of the Group and accordingly protection of the management of the Companys business.
The current key brand and reputation of the Group and its subsidiaries, including responsibilities of both the Chairman and Chief Executive ensuring that subsidiaries continue to meet local regulatory are set out in the table on the next page.
requirements, is also a key part of the Boards role.
Board Activities in FY2012 Key Areas of Focus Pursuing the Companys strategy of Getting in shape, leveraging our assets and developing opportunities In particular, the Board spent much of its time considering the acquisitions of the remaining 50 per cent of FTSE and a majority stake in LCH.
Clearnet Continuing to upgrade the Groups risk framework Undertaking an external review of its effectiveness Continuing to evaluate Group strategy 48 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Key responsibilities When Directors have not been able to attend meetings due to conflicts in their schedule, they receive and review papers to be Group Chairman Chief Executive considered at the relevant meeting.
Where they have comments Acts as an independent Non-Executive Formulates the strategic direction or concerns on the matters to be discussed they provide these Director and chairs the Board of of the Company and agrees this to the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
theCompany with the Board periodically Forges an effective Board as to Ensures proper financial and Directors have the benefit of indemnity arrangements from composition, skills and competencies business control is exercised the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their within the Company Ensures, in collaboration with the office and execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities.
Chief Executive, that the Board considers Chairs the Executive Committee The Company maintained a Directors and officers liability the strategic issues facing the Company Ensures there is a clear management insurance policy throughout the year ended 31 March 2012. in a timely manner and is presented structure with appropriately This policy covers the Directors for any such liabilities in respect with sound information and analysis delegated responsibilities staffed appropriate to the decisions that it is of which they are not indemnified by the Company, and the by suitably experienced and asked to make qualified staff Company, to the extent to which it has indemnified the Directors.
Acts as a sounding board for the Chief Ensures appropriate reporting This insurance cover will be renewed.
Neither the Companys Executive and provides general advice and communication systems are indemnity nor insurance provide cover for a Director in the event relating to the management and established across the Company that the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
development of the Companys business Ensures key performance Supports the commercial activities objectives are set for all operational Board balance and independence of the Company by, inter alia, departments, action plans and maintaining contact with the budgetary controls are established Board balance and independence Companys key stakeholders and and, where necessary, corrective maintaining dialogue with competitors action is taken to maximise the and other industryparticipants performance of the Company Ensures the Companys strategy and values are effectively understood and applied by management and staff Independent Non-Executive Chairman 1 Board and Committee meetings FY2012 The Board held six scheduled meetings, 14ad hoc meetings and Independent Non-Executive one strategy day in the year ended 31 March 2012.
On a number of Directors 8 occasions throughout the year, the Chairman met Non-Executive Executive Directors 3 Directors without the presence of Executive Directors.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors also meet without the Executive Directors at the start of each Board meeting to discuss the business of that meeting and other issues.
Throughout the Length of service: Non-Executive Directors year, the Chairman also met with Non-Executive Directors as at 31 March 2012 individually to discuss business-related matters.
Board meeting attendance in the year ended 31March 2012 Scheduled Ad hoc Strategy Total Number of meetings 6 14 1 21 Chris Gibson-Smith 6 6 14 14 1 1 21 0-2 years 3 Xavier Rolet 6 6 14 14 1 1 21 Raffaele Jerusalmi 6 6 14 14 1 1 21 2-5 years 3 Doug Webb 6 6 14 14 1 1 21 6 years 3 Paolo Scaroni 5 6 11 14 0 1 16 Baroness Janet Cohen 6 6 13 14 1 1 20 Sergio Ermotti 3 6 10 14 1 1 14 There is a strong non-executive element on the Board and the Paul Heiden 5 6 10 14 1 1 16 Non-Executive Directors provide deep corporate experience Gay Huey Evans 6 6 11 14 1 1 18 and knowledge which they apply to their understanding of Andrea Munari 5 6 13 14 1 1 19 the Group and its strategy.
Massimo Tononi 6 6 12 14 1 1 19 The Board considers that the Directors possess a strong range of Robert Webb 6 6 10 14 1 1 17 business experience and the Board has the right mix of skills and experience given the size and geography of the Group.
The Board As well as six scheduled Board meetings and a dedicated strategy considers that the balance of skills and experience is best achieved day, the Board called 14 additional Board meetings on short notice by balancing continuity of experience and new joiners and also to consider matters relating to various corporate transactions.
by drawing Directors from a wide range of backgrounds, including This in part accounted for a number of Non-Executive Directors both the financial markets in which the Group operates, as well being unable to attend all meetings.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Governance Annual Report 2012 49 It is likely that the Board will continue to include Directors with Board effectiveness and leadership current or recent experience in financial markets amongst its This year the Board engaged Spencer Stuart to carry out the membership as the Board believes it benefits from this expertise.
Spencer Stuart was appointed The Board also believes that the Group benefits from having following a review of providers in the market and is not currently directors with a mixture of tenures.
Given the extensive corporate engaged in any other work on behalf of the Company.
activity undertaken by the Group in the year ended 31 March 2012 The evaluation process was carried out through formal interviews with the acquisition of the remaining 50 per cent of FTSE and the with each director.
The evaluation covered the following areas: transaction to acquire a majority stake in LCH.
Clearnet Group, the Board decided that the Group would benefit from a period Overall Impression of the Board: Organisation of the Board: of Board stability.
Following the results of the Board Effectiveness Committee Organisation: Roles and Duties as Directors, including Review, the Board will continue the process of reviewing its performance of individual directors: Board Composition: Board composition in the year ended 31 March 2013.
Involvement and Engagement: Communication with Shareholders and other Stakeholders and Overall Board Effectiveness.
The key The Board has concluded that all Non-Executive Directors themes arising from the 2012 evaluation, which will form the basis are independent in character and judgement.
In assessing each of the 2013 action plan, were: Director, the Board considered whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to consideration of succession planning and Board composition affect, the Directors judgement.
particularly as the Group diversifies: a desire from Non-Executive Directors for greater interaction The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that a company with the executive at all levels in order to further enhance the should state its reasons if it determines that a director is independent Boards understanding of the business beyond presentations in certain circumstances, including where a director is employed at Board meetings: and by ashareholder or customer of the Company and where a director as the Group expands geographically, consideration of greater has served for more than nine years.
use of technology to facilitate fuller participation of all Directors.
Andrea Munari is employed by Intesa, which is a customer of the Board development Group and which also owns shares in the Company.
MrMunari Each new Director joining the Board is provided with an induction isring fenced from any decisions impacting Intesas shareholding programme covering the key areas of business of the Group.
in the Company and any discussions between the Company and Directors are provided with key documents including strategy Intesa are conducted with a separate team at Intesa responsible for documents, past Board papers, an overview of the business its investment decisions.
Whilst the Company values its relationship including the regulatory framework within which the Group with Intesa as a customer, given the size of Intesa, it is believed operates and information on their responsibilities under the Listing that Intesas relationship with the Company and its subsidiaries is Rules.
Additionally, Directors meet with executives from throughout not material to Intesa.
The Board benefits greatly from Mr Munaris the Group to better understand each of the business areas together current experience in financial markets and the Audit and Risk with the Groups governance and financial and legal framework.
Committee also benefits from Mr Munaris experience of risk in Directors have access to independent professional advice if they afinancial services company.
judge it necessary to fulfil their responsibilities as directors.
Sergio Ermotti is CEO of UBS, which is a customer of the Group.
Directors are encouraged to continually update their skills and MrErmotti brings vast expertise and experience of financial markets knowledge of the business and briefings are given at Board meetings which greatly assists the Board.
Given the size of UBS and the large on particular parts of the business.
number of markets in which it operates, its relationship with the Company is not material to UBS.
Additionally, Mr Ermottis portfolio As the Board increases in size and the Group expands into an as CEO is extensive and, as such, he is not engaged directly in UBSs increasing number of jurisdictions, the Board has also developed customer relationship with the Company.
The Board benefits from the practice of undertaking formal visits to its overseas businesses Mr Ermottis current experience in capital markets and from his so that the Directors can experience first-hand key aspects of the wider business experience.
Janet Cohen and Robert Webb have both served on the Board Conflicts of interest since 2001.
The Board considers that an individuals independence The articles of association allow the Board to authorise conflicts cannot be determined arbitrarily on the basis of a particular of interest that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions period of service.
The Board also benefits from their experience as it thinks fit.
The Company has established procedures whereby and knowledge resulting from the length of their service as well actual and potential conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed, as their wider business experience.
appropriate authorisation is sought prior to the appointment of any new Director and new conflicts are dealt with then.
The decision to In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors authorise a conflict of interest can only be made by non-conflicted are subject to annual re-election.
Directors and in making such decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Board believes that during the year ended 31 March 2012 this procedure operated effectively.
50 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Boards overseas visit to Sri Lanka Remuneration Committee In January 2012, the Board visited the Groups offices in Sri Details of the Committees remit and activities are set out in Lanka, home to its subsidiary MillenniumIT.
In addition to aseparate Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 63. holding a Board meeting, the Directors received presentations Audit and Risk Committee from local management that provided the Board with an Details of the Committees remit and activities are set out in overview of MillenniumITs business and some of the new aseparate Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 52 to 53. products being developed.
The Board also participated in the laying of the Foundation Stone for the new building to house Internal Controls the software development team on the MillenniumIT campus.
The Board has overall responsibility for the risk management MillenniumIT also hosted an all staff event which provided framework and maintaining an adequate system of internal an opportunity for Directors to meet local staff.
control appropriate for the Groups business and the risks to which it is exposed.
The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in The Boards visit to Sri Lanka included a presentation on the discharging this responsibility by reviewing and assessing the extensive CSR initiatives supported by MillenniumITs staff.
Groups system of internal controls and risk management process.
One such initiative was the Habitat Housing Project, where Executive management are responsible for designing, operating employees have spent a considerable amount of their own and monitoring the system of internal controls.
The system of time supporting the LSEG Foundation-backed housing internal controls is designed to manage within the Boards risk project, building 54 houses for homeless families.
During appetite rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the the visit, some of the Board, including the Chairman and Groups objectives, and can only provide reasonable, but not CEO visited the project site in the village of Sinnathammunai.
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, fraud or breaches of laws and regulations.
The system of internal controls is amended as appropriate in response to changes in the Groups business and associated risks.
Board Committees The key elements of the Groups system of internal controls are The Company ensures that all Committees are provided with described below: sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
All Committees have written terms of reference which are available from the Organisational structure corporate reponsibility section on the Companys website at The day-to-day running of the Group is managed by an Executive www.
com or on request from the Committee which is chaired by the Group Chief Executive Officer.
Each Executive Committee member is responsible for one of the Groups operating divisions.
The Executive Committee meets Nomination Committee regularly to review business and financial performance and The Nomination Committee members as at 31 March 2012 were: approve key decisions.
The Executive Committee is supported Chris Gibson-Smith Chairman, Janet Cohen, Robert Webb by aLeadership Team, comprising approximately60 Senior and Paolo Scaroni.
The Committees role is to review the size Managers from across the business units within each division.
and structure of the Board, succession planning and to make Lines of responsibility have been clearly defined and an recommendations to the Board on potential candidates for the appropriate framework of delegated authorities is inplace.
The Committee normally invites the Chief Executive to attend.
The Committee has written terms of reference Policies and procedures which are available from the Group Company Secretary or A framework of Group policies and procedures has been established at the corporate governance section of the Companys website for all aspects of the Groups activities, supplemented with a number www.
of local policies where appropriate.
The policies are reviewed and updated on an on-going basis to reflect changes in the Groups The Committee met once in the year.
It considered Board and structure and changing business needs.
Key policies are emphasised senior management succession planning.
in the employee induction process and regularly reinforced.
Nomination Committee meeting attendance in the year ended Risk management system 31March 2012 The risk management process is governed by a Board-endorsed risk management policy and risk appetite statement.
Executive Scheduled Total management are accountable for risk identification, analysis, Number of Meetings 1 1 evaluation, mitigation, monitoring and reporting in their area Chris Gibson-Smith 1 1 1 within the framework established by the Board.
A combined bottom Baroness Janet Cohen 1 1 1 up and top down risk management approach is adopted, with risks Paolo Scaroni 1 1 1 identified at a business unit, divisional and group level.
Divisional Robert Webb 1 1 1 risk registers are reviewed by the Executive Committee every quarter.
The Group risk register is reviewed by the Board at least every six months following an updated assessment of the risk management process by the Audit and Risk Committee.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Governance Annual Report 2012 51 Each Group risk is owned by a member of the Executive Committee Conclusion who is responsible for managing or mitigating the risk to a level The Board confirms that, through the Audit and Risk Committee, within the Groups risk appetite.
Two Executive Committee it has reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the Groups members present their divisions risk management processes and system of internal controls throughout the year and up to the latest risk registers to the Audit and Risk Committee every 6 months date of approval of this Annual Report.
No significant failings in rotation.
On a semi-annual basis a divisional internal control and or weaknesses were identified during this review.
The Board is risk management self-certification process is also performed.
Each satisfied that the risk management process and system of internal business unit is required to confirm that they are in compliance with controls accords with the revised Turnbull guidance 2005. the Groups governance procedures.
Any exceptions are reported Relations with shareholders to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Company runs a full Investor Relations IR programme, with An overview of the principal risks and uncertainties for the Group the objective of ensuring that existing and potential shareholders, isprovided on pages 38 to 43. plus sell-side analysts that produce investment research relating to the Group, have access to a range of information to appropriately Financial controls understand the strategy, activities, performance and prospects of Comprehensive financial reporting and review procedures are the Company.
The IR programme typically consists of meetings, in place, with financial and key performance indicators reviewed calls, presentations and news data releases on a regular basis against operational budgets on a monthly basis at a group, divisional throughout the year, based around the Groups financial reporting and business unit level.
The monthly management report used calendar and following major corporate events.
by the Executive Committee is shared with the Group Board and any key issues are reviewed at each Board meeting.
Investment The IR team, reporting to the CFO, is responsible for organising opportunities are evaluated following a clearly defined investment the IR programme and for day-to-day contact with the market.
The CEO and CFO engage in regular contact with shareholders, through meetings and presentations, to discuss strategy, Treasury risk management performance and other matters.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Group treasury risk management is overseen by the Treasury Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee are also Committee which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
The available to meet major investors, particularly to discuss corporate Committee operates within Board approved policies and meets governance and remuneration, as required.
Over the past year, regularly to review the management of the Groups own capital, senior management and the IR team held 287 meetings and calls credit, market and liquidity risks.
Counterparty, investment and with shareholders and potential investors in the UK, Europe, the liquidity risks related to the CCP operations of the clearing house Middle East, Asia and North America.
CC&G are separately overseen by the CC&G Board Risk Committee and by the Executive Committee.
Further details on financial risk The Investor Relations section of the Companys website at management are provided in note 2 to the accounts.
com is the primary source of regularly updated information about the Group.
Annual and Programme and project governance interim reports and accounts, interim management statements, The Group has an established project management methodology news releases, presentations at investor conferences and other governing the projects that it undertakes.
Individual project boards, documents are all available on the website together with a list of including Executive Committee representation where appropriate, analysts producing research on the company and a summary of are accountable for project delivery.
The Executive Committee analysts forecasts of performance.
Presentations of preliminary regularly reviews the Groups project portfolio.
and interim results are accessible by all shareholders via webcasts Regulatory monitoring in real time and also via replay for a period after the event.
Regulatory and compliance risks in the UK and Italian markets Analyst research notes are circulated to the Board following in which the Group operates are monitored by experienced publication.
The Board also receives a report on IR matters at compliance functions.
These regulatory teams work closely each of its scheduled meetings, including market expectations with the FSA in the UK and CONSOB and Banca dItalia in Italy.
of financial performance, share register composition and feedback The compliance functions are managed independently from from major investors.
The Groups corporate brokers and a specialist the customer facing business units.
IR advisory firm also provide the Board with advice on shareholder Internal audit relations and share register analysis.
The AGM provides the The internal audit function provides independent assessment over opportunity for shareholders to meet Directors and to put questions the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal controls to the Board, including the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk, and the risk system.
The audit plan is aligned to the Groups key Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The procedures for risks and is approved by the Audit and Risk Committee.
A risk-based the AGM are compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
approach is adopted for all audits.
Progress on implementing audit Voting at the AGM is by way of a poll to ensure all shareholders actions arising is reported on a timely basis to the Executive and views are taken into account.
A new Head of Internal Audit and Risk was appointed during the year.
