34 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance report continued Audit and Risk Committee report Composition and attendance at meetings The Audit and Risk Committee is an Attendance essential part of Mans governance Committee members record Matthew Lester Chairman 9 9 framework to which the Board has Patrick OSullivan 9 9 delegated oversight of the Groups financial Nina Shapiro 8 9 reporting, risk management, internal controls and compliance, internal and The Audit and Risk Committee the Committee is comprised entirely of independent non-executive directors and the Committee held nine formal external audit.
These functions form an meetings during the year.
The Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating integral part of the Groups three lines of Officer, Chief Risk Officer, General Counsel, Head of Global Compliance and Regulatory, Head of Internal Audit and representatives of the external defence model see page 22.
This report auditors attended the majority of meetings by invitation.
In addition the Committee had regular private meetings with both Internal Audit and the provides an overview of the work of the external auditors.
Patrick OSullivan and I are the members considered Committee and details how it has tohave relevant and recent financial experience.
Biographies of the Committee members can be found on pages 28 and 29 and the terms discharged its duties during the year.
ofreference for the Committee, together with details of the standard business considered by the Committee, can be found at www.
Matthew Lester The Committees role and responsibilities Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee How the Committee fits into the committee structure overseeing Mans governance framework is illustrated below.
Issues are escalated to the Committee through the Finance Committee and Risk Assurance Committee as appropriate and by the Committee to the Board, who are ultimately responsible for governance across the Group.
Board Executive Audit and Risk 1 Committee Committee Finance Risk Assurance 1 1 Committee Committee Note: 1 Further information on the role of these Committees can be found on page 23.
