58 Focus on responsibility making responsibility real Strategy Making responsibility real across bwin.
party covers all the areas that are fundamental to sustainable business practice and re ects an ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders, the We are committed to doing what is implementation of appropriate policies and right for players, stakeholders, society and business.
Our business has real practices, and a desire to continuously develop interactions with real people in real andimprove what we do.
With real play comes real responsibility.
Our long-term success We create evidence-based solutions for a safe and is dependent on us making secure online gaming environment and seek to responsibility real at bwin.
drive innovation across the industry.
We want Martin Weigold, Chief Financial Of cer toshare our knowledge with stakeholders and society and prove that we are doing it forreal.
Our approach in a nutshell Customers and responsible gaming Employees We take an evidence-based approach bwin.
party employees are empowered to responsible gaming to ensure that we torealise their individual potential and have the best possible protections for develop a strong skill-set that is a long-term ourcustomers in place.
Working with asset for both the business and their wider institutions such as the Division on pro profe fes ss si iona onal l l li ive ves s.. Addiction, Cambridge Health Alliance, Find out more on page 63 aHarvard Medical School teaching af liate DOA, we are developing a framework ofresponsible gaming tools Suppliers that can bepersonalised to a players Our supply chain is managed through i in nd di ivi vidu dual al be beh ha av vi io our ur.. asingle Enterprise Resource Planning system, designed to reduce risk, develop Find out more on page 60 mutually bene cial long-term business relationships and deliver best value from Environment and Community ou our su r supp ppl li ier ers on a long s on a long- -t ter erm b m ba asis sis.. Our approach to helping to protect the Find out more on page 64 environment and provide support to our local communities is an integral part of ouroverall commitment to making Shareholders responsibility real.
We fund a variety of Being clear and transparent with responsible gaming organisations and communications is ourobjective as more general charities and also run a webelieve greater understanding and probono scheme that allows employees appreciation of our business model is vital t to ogi giv five t e th hei eir t r ti im me e t to o g go oo od d c ca aus use es s.. t to to s sec ecu ur re long e long-tte er rm i m in nve ves st tor ors s.. Find out more on page 62 Find out more on page 65 bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 59 Drawing upon both internal and external since 2005.
The overall process is overseen expertise and procedures to uphold high by the Ethics Committee of the Board standards we have invested human and chaired by Tim Bristow, an independent Research our approach financial capital in building the requisite Non-Executive Director.
The Committee Provide scientific evidence through fundamental research to improve our understanding of trust and con dence in our products has three other Non-Executive Board playerbehaviour: andbrands.
members, Per Afrell, Helmut Kern and Lord Incorporate findings into player protection tools: Moonie who meet regularly to review Our approach also covers wider corporate Evaluate and improve the effectiveness of player ethical and social matters relating to all protection tools: responsibility initiatives, including our ofour activities.
Share solutions through scientific publications contribution to society through charitable andraw data through the Transparency Project, donations and a pro bono scheme that The following few pages provide further theworlds first public repository for research enables employees to support local insight into our approach to corporate dataongaming behaviour please visit: www.
org community and environmental projects.
responsibility, responsible gaming and Initiate dialogue with others to improve player howwe seek to manage our impact on the Martin Weigold, Chief Financial Of cer, has protection in eCommerce and the digital environment, support local communities executive responsibility for our corporate entertainment industry as a whole.
and engage with our shareholders.
responsibility matters, a role he has held Measurement GoodCorporation Scientific output e. g. number of publications At the end of 2012 we commissioned GoodCorporation to The number of people using data from the undertake an independent assessment of our management Transparency Project The participation in evidence-based dialogues processes and policies regarding key stakeholders.
via stakeholder forums GoodCorporation is recognised globally as a leading Meaningful player protection tools and policies organisation working in the eld ofcorporate responsibility and business ethics.
com They assessed our business practices and our impact on several stakeholder groups including employees, customers, shareholders, community and management.
1 Division on Addiction DOA 7-year collaboration with DOA For each of the stakeholder groups, the assessment 17 papers in peer-reviewed journals involved asking: Transparency project database 63,000 Does a policy exist?
uniquevisitors since 2009 from90 countries Funding from Nevada Council in Is there a system to implement the policy?
problemgambling Do records show that the system works inpractice?
Do stakeholders agree that it works and is fair?
The assessment shows we improved in some areas, such as staff morale post-Merger, but it also shows we can do better in other parts of the business such as environmental measurement and management.
With most of the e-Health technology integration work now complete, management can devote Pilot launched in 2011 more time to address the weaknesses identi ed as well as Aim to promote healthy entertainment strive to improve in areas where we meet or exceed the Funding from Nevada Council in problem gambling Translated into 8 languages GoodCorporation standard.
Division on Addiction, Cambridge Health Alliance, a Harvard Medical School teaching af liate.
Download our Making Responsibility Real brochure at: www.
