Governance 72 Audit Committee Report Founder Shareholders of both bwin and PartyGaming holding inaggregate make recommendations to the Board concerning any proposed, 22% of bwin.
partys share capital have Board representatives which newor amended accounting policy: facilitates a productive dialogue with theseinvestors.
monitor and review the internal audit programme and its Maintaining good communications with the investment analyst effectiveness: community so that there exists a portfolio of independent research ensure co-ordination between the of cers responsible for internal on the business.
This also allows the Company to understand how audit and the external auditors, and that the internal audit function itisbeingperceived by the investor community generally.
isadequately resourced and has appropriate standing within bwin.
party: consider any major audit recommendations and the major findings E. Audit Committee Report ofinternal investigations and managements response in the absence of management, where appropriate : Purpose monitor and review bwin.
partys systems for internal control, The Board is required by the Code to establish formal and transparent financial reporting and risk management: and arrangements for considering how it should apply the required financial review the individual internal audit reports covering various areas reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate and activities of the business relationship with the Companys joint auditors, BDO LLP and BDOLimited.
Business during the year Membership During the year to 31 December 2012, the Audit Committee met four The Board has done this by appointing an Audit Committee.
times to review and consider the following items of business: Themembers of the Audit Committee are: March: Helmut Kern Chairman 2011 Annual Report Tim Bristow The external auditors report and the required letter of representation Rod Perry from the Company Sylvia Coleman The non-audit services provided by the external auditors Helmut Kern has recent and relevant financial experience.
The re-appointment of the external auditors at the 2012 AGM SylviaColeman was appointed a member of the Audit Committee The internal audit status report on8March 2013.
A proposal on external audit re-tendering The Code recommends that a minimum of three independent directors Annual review of the Audit Committees work and terms of reference should serve on the Audit Committee and the Company has complied June: with this recommendation throughout 2012.
External auditors management letters Responsibilities The external auditors 2012 planning report and engagement letter The Audit Committee has adopted terms of reference, approved by The level of non-audit services provided by the external auditors theBoard that are available on the Companys website: http: www.
Latest internal audit status report bwinparty.
In summary the main responsibilities of the Audit Committee Group risk register areto: External audit re-tendering consider and make recommendations to the Board as regards the August: appointment of the head of the internal audit function and also the External auditors half year review relating to the 2012 half year external auditors as well as the re-appointment of the latter: results and the required letter of representation from bwin.
party recommend the audit fee to the Board and develop and recommend Review of the 2012 half year results to the Board bwin.
partys policy in relation to the provision of nonThe level of non-audit services provided by the external auditors audit services by the external auditor: Latest internal audit status report monitor the integrity of the financial statements of bwin.
party and Treasury management update any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance and to review, and challenge where necessary, the December: actions and judgements of management in relation to the half year Group risk register and annual financial statements before submission to the Board: Latest internal audit status report meet with the external auditors post-audit at the reporting stage to Follow-up in respect of the management letter arising from the discuss the audit, including problems and reservations arising from lastaudit the audit, and any matters the auditor may wish to discuss in the absence of management, where appropriate : bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 73 Updated report from the external auditors on their plans for auditing are in place fortheproportionate and independent investigation of such the 2012 annual financial results matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The level of non-audit services provided by the external auditors External auditors At these meetings, members of the Audit Committee met with During the year ended 31 December 2012, BDO LLP was appointed under management and with the internal and external auditors.
The Audit an engagement letter to act as auditors to enable the Company to meet Committee members also met privately with the external auditors and its obligations to prepare financial statements in accordance with separately with the internal audit function, without management theListing Rules.
For the purposes of ling the Companys financial representatives present.
statements in Gibraltar, BDO LLP and BDO Limited have been appointed to act as joint auditors to allow an audit report to be issued under Through these meetings and review process the Audit Committee has section 10 of the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999. satis ed itself that proper and satisfactory internal control systems remain in place to identify and contain business risks and that the In accordance with its duties, the Audit Committee made integrity of the Companys financial reporting is sound.
In doing so recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the external theAudit Committee continues to exercise its authority to seek any auditors, approved their remuneration both subject to shareholder information it requires from any employee of the Company.
approval and also approved their terms of engagement.
The Audit Committee has also established a policy regarding the appointment In 2013, the Audit Committee has met once to review and recommend ofexternal auditors to perform non-audit services for the Group and the approval of the 2012 full year results and the 2012 AnnualReport.
willkeep this under continual review.
This policy dictates that in the Risk management and effective internalcontrols Companys financial year, the total fees for non-audit services provided by the external auditors, excluding non-audit fees for due diligence The section, Key risks on pages 56 and 57 of the Annual Report sets out foracquisitions and other speci c matters noted below, should not the main risks impacting the Groups business.
exceedthe total fees for audit services they provide.
party maintains a robust system of internal control for the purpose ended31December 2012, the proportion of total non-audit fees of safeguarding the investment of shareholders in the Company and the tototalauditfees paid to the external auditors was 0.14:1.0.
At least annually the Board conducts a review of the In addition to their statutory duties, BDO LLP is also employed where, effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, covering all asa result of their position as auditors or for their speci c expertise, they material controls, including financial, operational and compliance either must, or the Audit Committee accepts they are best placed to, controls and risk management systems.
partys system of internal perform the work in question.
This is primarily work in relation to control reduces the probability that business risks might impede the matters such as shareholder circulars, Group borrowings, regulatory Company in achieving its objectives, but it cannot eliminate these risks lings and certain business acquisitions and disposals.
In such and can therefore provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance circumstances the Audit Committee will separately review the speci c against material misstatement or loss.
service requirements and consider any impact on objectivity and The Group has an internal audit department, which also carries out the independence of the auditors and any appropriate safeguards to this.
During the year, management Assuch the Audit Committee believes it appropriate for these non-audit identi ed the risks attaching to the business and, on an ongoing basis, services to be excluded from the 1:1 ratio set out above.
In the year efforts are being taken to mitigate these risks.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2012 the total fees paid to the external auditors bwin.
partys internal auditors performed internal audits of of ces inrespect of due diligence for acquisitions was 0.07 million.
anddepartments within the business to assess whether adequate Helmut Kern internal controls are in place to protect the Group, its employees and Chairman of the Audit Committee shareholders.
The internal audit reports are presented to the Audit 15 March 2013 Committee and the Head of Internal Audit meets regularly with the Audit Committee as well as Chairman of the Audit Committee, to whom he has direct access.
In accordance with the guidance contained in the Turnbull Report, the Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, has completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the internal system of control, andis satis ed that it is in accordance with that guidance.
The Group continues to adopt and publicise a formal whistleblowing procedure by which employees can, in con dence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial or other matters.
This procedure is set out in the Groups employee handbooks and has been reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is satis ed that arrangements
