Governance 68 Good corporate governance is a necessary condition A.
Leadership forsustainable success in business.
The purpose of this section of the Annual Report is to demonstrate how the Board oversees the interests ofthe Company through its operating structure and to review bwin.
partys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
party digital Audit Committee Thischapter comprises the following sections: entertainment plc Board A Leadership B How the Board functions Ethics Committee C Effectiveness D Relations with shareholders Integration Committee E Audit Committee Report F Ethics Committee Report G Integration Committee Report Executive Directors Nominations Committee H Nominations Committee Report I Remuneration Report J Other Governance & Statutory Disclosures and the 2013 AGM Senior Management Team Remuneration Committee Following the Merger in 2011 between bwin and PartyGaming, the Company did not comply with the Code in all respects during the reporting period.
Inparticular, it did not comply in the following areas: The composition of the Board during 2012 and to date is set out on pages 68 to 69.
1 Less than half the Board were determined to be independent in the Summary biographies of the current Directors are set out on pages 66 and 67. year ended 31 December 2012.
Since 15 January 2013 the Board has complied with the recommendation that excluding the Chairman at least half of the Board should be independent.
Thismatter is addressed below on page 69.
2 In relation to various legacy share plans: Changes to the Board a the performance-related elements of certain Executive Directors During 2012 there were no changes to the composition of the Board.
remuneration see page 85 : Since the year end, Jim Ryan retired as Co-CEO and Joachim Baca stepped down as a Director of the Company, but remains a member of the senior b executive share options being offered at a discount see page 85 : management team.
Both changes took effect on 15 January 2013. c certain Non-Executive Directors holding share options Inaddition, on 8 March 2013, Sylvia Coleman was appointed as an seepage85 independent Non-Executive Director.
The explanations for these deviations and the actions that have already been taken or will be taken in an appropriate timeframe to remedy them The Chairman, CEO and Senior Independent Director are set out in this section.
The responsibilities of the Chairman, CEO and Senior Independent Director are clearly fide ned and are summarised below: Simon Duffy Chairman Chairman 15 March 2013 Overseeing the effective running of the Board Ensuring that the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part in the development and determination of the Companys strategy and overall commercial objectives Acting as the guardian of the Boards decision-making process Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance throughout the Company and particularly at Board level CEO Running the Companys business Proposing and developing the Companys strategy and overall commercial objectives, which he does in close consultation with theChairman and the Board bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 69 Responsible, with the executive team, for implementing the decisions the Board had the appropriate balance of skills and experience of the Board and its Committees tomanage the imbalance appropriately.
Promoting, and conducting the affairs of the Company with, the Since the year end, two of the non-independent Directors, Jim Ryan highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance andJoachim Baca have stepped down from the Board, so from 15January 2013 the composition of the Board complies with the Codes Senior Independent Director recommendation.
On 8 March 2013, Sylvia Coleman was appointed asanindependent Non-Executive Director, resulting in currently six As well as performing the normal duties expected of a Non-Executive independent Directors and five non-independent Directors serving on Director, the Senior Independent Director is required to: the Board excluding the Chairman.
There will be a further review of the be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact Boards composition later in the year.
through the Chairman, CEO or CFO has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate: Responsibility and delegation lead the Non-Executive Directors in evaluating the performance The Directors have adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved to ofthe Chairman, taking into account the views of the theBoard, setting out which issues must be referred to the Board for ExecutiveDirectors: decision.
These can be categorised into a number of key areas including but not limited to: maintain suf cient contact with shareholders to understand their issues and concerns: and long-term business plan, strategy, budgets and forecasts: perform such other roles and responsibilities as the Senior restructuring or reorganisation of the Group and material acquisitions Independent Director as may be contemplated by the Code or best and disposals: practice guidelines in place from time to time.
the Groups finance, banking and capital structure arrangements: Board independence approval of capital expenditure and financial guarantees above The Code recommends that at least half the members of a Board certain levels: excluding the Chairman should be Non-Executive Directors who are financial reporting interim and annual financial results and interim independent in character and judgement and free from relationships management statements : orcircumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, dividend policy: their judgement.
shareholder circulars, convening shareholder meetings and stock During 2012 the Company did not comply with this recommendation.
exchange announcements: Excluding the Chairman, the Board was composed of five independent approval of the Groups remuneration policy following Non-Executive Directors Rod Perry, Per Afrell, Tim Bristow, Helmut Kern recommendations from the Remuneration Committee : and Lewis Moonie and seven non-independent Directors Joachim Baca, Geoff Baldwin, Manfred Bodner, Georg Riedl, Jim Ryan, Norbert approval of the Groups risk management and control framework and Teufelberger and Martin Weigold.
As part of the Merger negotiations, the appointment re-appointment of the external auditors following both the bwin and PartyGaming boards agreed a balanced management recommendations from the Audit Committee : and structure was in the best interests of the combined Group, drawing approval of the Groups policies in relation to corporate and social uponthe considerable management strength and experience of responsibility, health and safety and the environment bothorganisations.
In addition, the Board has adopted a formal delegation of authority Despite the technical imbalance of independent and non-independent memorandum which sets out the level of authority for employees of the Directors, the Board is satis ed that it has maintained a suf cient business below Board level.
degree of independence for the following reasons: on the majority of business items considered by the Board, a nonB.
How the Board functions independent Non-Executive Director is independent, because the interests of the relevant founder shareholders and the Company In accordance with the Code, the Company isheaded by an effective donot con ict: Board, which is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
on issues when the interests of the Company and interests of a The Board provides strategic leadership of the Company whilst ensuring founder shareholder may con ict, mechanisms in the relationship that a framework of prudent and effective controls exists in order to agreement and or letters ofappointment for the non-independent assess and managerisk.
Non-Executive Director allow the independent Directors to exclude them from the decision-making process: the independent Directors have not been and will not be in a minority to the ExecutiveDirectors: the Chairman of the Board was independent on appointment: and Governance 70 Meetings In order to ensure that the Board has an appropriate level of knowledge about the operations of the business and to enable it to assess the The Board and its committees met in Gibraltar throughout 2012 calibre of management below Executive Director level, members of the anddetails of the number of meetings and attendance records are senior management team are regularly invited to attend meetings to setoutinthe table below.
The agenda of Board meetings usually present on and take part in discussions on particular items of business.
coverthefollowing: Following the independent assessment of the functioning of the Board, Strategy, covering both the existing real-money gaming business the Chairman will meet with the Non-Executive Directors individually poker, sports, casino and bingo as well as adjacent businesses such toreview governance issues.
The Senior Independent Director has met as social gaming, payment systems and sports content with the Non-Executive Directors as part of the process of reviewing the Geographical expansion performance of the Chairman and has communicated the results of Operational and business performance updates thatmeeting to him.
He will take account of the feedback in his future Financial updates management of the Board and of governance issues.
Regulatory and licensing developments Industry consolidation opportunities The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the following committees of Directors: Audit Ethics Integration Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Helmut Kern C Tim Bristow C Manfred Bodner C Simon Duffy C Rod Perry C Tim Bristow Per Afrell Simon Duffy Per Afrell Per Afrell Rod Perry Helmut Kern Rod Perry Rod Perry Helmut Kern Sylvia Coleman Lewis Moonie Jim Ryan Lewis Moonie Norbert Teufelberger C denotes Chairman of the committee.
Jim Ryan stepped down as a Director on 15January2013.
During the year the Board and its committees met in Gibraltar and details of the number of meetings and attendance records are set out in the tablebelow: Total number of meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2012 and the number of meetings attended of the maximum number that each Director was entitled to attend Audit Ethics Integration Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Total held in year 5 4 254 4 Per Afrell 5 5 2 2 4 4 4 4 Joachim Baca 5 5 Geoff Baldwin 5 5 Manfred Bodner 5 5 5 5 1 1 Tim Bristow 5 5 4 4 2 2 1 1 Simon Duffy 5 5 5 5 4 4 Helmut Kern 5 5 4 4 2 2 1 1 4 4 Lewis Moonie 5 5 2 2 1 1 4 4 Rod Perry 5 5 4 4 5 5 4 4 4 4 Georg Riedl 5 5 1 1 Jim Ryan 5 5 5 5 1 1 Norbert Teufelberger 5 5 5 5 1 1 Martin Weigold 5 5 The membership of the Nominations Committee was changed after the first meeting in 2012 and these Directors no longer served on that Board committee.
Each committee reports separately on its work on the following pages.
The Board is satis ed that the Company maintains an ongoing sound system for identifying, evaluating and managing risk.
Internal controls For more information on this subject please see the Audit Committee In accordance with the Code, the Board has reviewed, with assistance report on page 72 and 73 and the summary of the Groups key risks on from the Audit Committee, the effectiveness of the Companys risk pages56and 57. management and internal control systems put in place to manage the risks attaching to the business in pursuing its strategic objectives.
This review covers all material controls, including financial, operational and bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 71 Tenure Induction and ongoing training The Companys Articles of Association require every new Director to Each new Director receives a full induction on joining the Board stand for re-election by shareholders at the next AGM immediately andmajor Shareholders are offered the opportunity to meet new following their appointment.
Thereafter each Director is required to seek Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman ensures that all Directors re-election by shareholders at an AGM at least once every three years.
continually update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the The Code, however, recommends that Directors stand for re-election Company to ful ll their roles on the Board and Board Committees annually and, in accordance with this recommendation, allthe Directors viareports and information collated by management, the Company are seeking re-appointment at the 2013 AGM.
Secretary and the Companys advisers.
The tenure of the current Board is as follows: Performance evaluation Number Period Each year the Directors undertake a formal evaluation of the of Directors of service performance of the Board, its Committees and of individual Directors 1 Less than 12 months during the prior year.
For the review of 2011s performance, carried out 712 years inearly 2012, the Board decided to use the services of Lintstock Limited, a third-party corporate governance adviser, to carry out a full 245 years questionnaire and interview process.
The evaluation concluded that 268 years theBoard was too large and could bene t from an injection of fresh experience relevant to the gaming sector, in particular in relation to Succession digital entertainment and regulation, from individuals who would The Nominations Committee keeps under review the succession plans satisfy the Codes criteria for independence.
More information on for Directors and senior managers.
In doing so, the Nominations theperformance evaluation process is setout in the Nominations Committee focuses on whether the Board is appropriately diverse with Committees report on page 76.
In 2013 the Board has conducted a Board arange of generalist and specialist knowledge and skills.
For further performance evaluation of performance in 2012, utilising again the information please refer to the Nominations Committee report.
services of Lintstock limited and the Chairman has reviewed the results with the Directors.
party maintains an insurance policy for its Directors and of cersand the Company has also entered into deeds of indemnity D. Relations with Shareholders withits Directors.
The Directors recognise the importance of maintaining effective communications with shareholders.
This is serviced in the followingways: C. Effectiveness Throughout the year the CEO, CFO, Chairman and Director of Information ow to the Directors Communications meet with existing and potential institutional The Chairman oversees, with the assistance of the Company Secretary, investors.
the process of ensuring that all Directors receive timely and accurate After publication of both the Groups full-year and half-year results the information in order to enable them to perform their duties.
CEO and CFO give a formal presentation to the analyst community that is Management provides detailed information ahead of each Board or also made available via webcast and copies of which can be found on the Committee meeting and additional information or updates between Groups website.
Following the announcement of the Groups interim management Each Executive Director is available to the Non-Executive Directors if statements, the CEO and CFO host a conference call for analysts thelatter should need clari cation or ampli cation on any information andinvestors.
All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the All Directors attend the Annual General Meeting and shareholders are Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring Board invited to attend and ask questions either during orafter the meeting.
procedures are complied with and advising the Board through the Notice of the AGM is set out on pages 146 and 147 of thisdocument Chairman, on all governance matters.
and details of the meeting are set out on pages 92 and 93.
Inaccordance with the Code, the AGM notice has been dispatched Independent legal advice toShareholders more than 20 working days before the AGM.
The Board has adopted a procedure for Directors to seek independent The corporate website contains useful information for all professional advice at the expense of the Company if they judge it Shareholderson the Companys strategy, financial results, business necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
Each operations sharepriceand press announcements.
Committee of the Board also has authority under its terms of reference to obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice if the Committee considers it necessary in order to perform its duties.
