ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 THE MERCHANTS TRUST PLC Audit Committee Report he principal role of the Audit Committee is to from the Compliance Officer on the operation of T assist the Board in relation to the reporting financial controls relating to the Company and of financial information, the review of financial the proper conduct of its business in accordance controls and the management of risk.
The with the regulatory environment in which both committee has defined terms of reference and the Company and the Manager operate.
The duties and the terms of reference are published committee also considered the Auditors report on on the Companys website.
These include the annual accounts, the planning and the process responsibility for the review of the annual financial of the audit and the Auditors independence report and the half yearly financial report, the and objectivity.
It has also considered the nonnature and scope of the external audit and the audit services provided by the Auditors and findings therefrom and the terms of appointment determined that they have had no impact on of the auditors, including their remuneration and the Auditors independence and objectivity.
The the provision of any non-audit services by them.
Audit Committee believes the performance of Non-audit services of 3,500 in the year were for the Auditors is satisfactory and recommended the Auditors certification of borrowing covenants their reappointment to the Board.
These fees are considered Committee reviews the Companys accounting by the Audit Committee to be proportionate to policies and considers their appropriateness.
The the fees for audit services of 23,056 2011 - Committee also reviews the terms of appointment 23,949. of the Auditors together with their remuneration.
The Audit Committee continues to believe that The Board reviews the composition of the Audit the Company does not require an internal audit Committee and considers that, collectively, the function of its own as it delegates its day to day committee members have sufficient recent operations to third parties from whom it receives and relevant financial experience to discharge internal controls reports.
The Audit Committee consists of all of the independent non-executive As the Company has no employees it does not Directors, with the exception of the Chairman, and have a formal policy concerning the raising, in has defined terms of reference and duties.
The confidence, of any concerns about improprieties, committee considers that, collectively, its members whether in matters of financial reporting have sufficient recent and relevant financial or otherwise, for appropriate independent experience to discharge their responsibilities investigation.
However, any matters concerning the fully: two of the three committee members are Company may be raised with the Chairman or the Chartered Accountants.
During the year the Senior Independent Director.
The Audit Committee committee met twice during which the annual has, however, received and noted the Managers financial report and the half yearly financial policy on this matter.
report respectively were reviewed in detail.
These meetings were attended by representatives of the Manager including their Compliance Officer.
Mike McKeon At each meeting the committee received a report Audit Committee Chairman 29 March 2012 37
