This report should be read in conjunction with the Directors and Corporate Governance Report on pages 34 to 40.
Audit Audit Committee Membership The Audit Committee the Committee is comprised solely of Committee independent Non-executive Directors.
Membership and attendance at meetings report Simon Ball 5 5 Mary Francis 5 5 1 Mark Hamlin 1 1 2 This report sets out the membership, purposes Kate Nealon 2 2 Ian Tyler 5 5 and activities of the Audit Committee.
During the year, the Committee has undertaken a 1 Mark Hamlin was appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 January 2012.
2 Kate Nealon resigned from the Committee with effect from 22 July 2011. number of key activities, including reviews ofjudgemental accounting and disclosure With effect from 1 June 2012, Ian Tyler will become the issues such as asset impairment and revenue Chairman of the Committee and Alison Platt will become a member of the Committee upon her appointment to the Board recognition, the risk management framework as a Non-executive Director.
and the effectiveness of the Groups internal The Board has satisfied itself that at least one member of the audit arrangements.
Committee has recent and relevant financial experience and is Simon Ball confident that the collective experience of the members enables Chairman of the Audit Committee them to act as an effective Audit Committee.
The outcomes of Committee meetings are reported to the Board.
The principal duties of the Committee are set out in the terms of reference and include: 2011 12 Key Activities Reviewing the annual report and accounts, To review and monitor the effectiveness of internal controls, preliminaryresults and press release for the year internal audit and risk management systems ended31 March 2011 To review and approve the internal audit programme, ensuring Reviewing the composition and balance of trade adequate resources and co-ordination with external auditors receivables and accrued income during the year To monitor the integrity of the financial statements and toassess the level of exposure within the Group announcements relating to financial performance, and review significant judgements contained in them Reviewing the nature and disclosure of exceptional items To monitor the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of the statutory audit of the Annual report Reviewing the Groups revenue recognition policies andtheir application To review and monitor independence and performance of external auditors, recommend their appointment, re-appointment and Reviewing the internal control and risk management removal to the Board as appropriate and develop policy in relation framework processes and how they are implemented to the provision of non-audit services bythe regional business units Reviewing the effectiveness of the in-house audit team Meetings and the co-source arrangements as well as the internal The Committee held five scheduled meetings during the year ended 31 March 2012.
Details of Committee membership and individual audit plan attendance at the meetings by members are given in the table above.
Reviewing the status of Group litigation The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Corporate Services Assessing the external auditors independence and Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and undertaking an evaluation of the external auditor representatives from KPMG Audit Plc KPMG, the Companys external auditor, are also invited to attend all Committee meetings.
Reviewing external audit strategy and fees In May and November when the full year and half year results are Review of tax risk and treasury, accounting and tax considered, the Chairman is also invited to attend.
policies The agenda for meetings is prepared by the Committee Chairman Reviewing the interim results and press release for the in conjunction with the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial six months ended 30 September 2011 Controller and the external auditor.
Each scheduled meeting commences with a private session, attended only by Committee Monitoring Group insurance cover members, the external auditor and Head of Internal Audit, to take soundings on matters to be discussed at the meeting or any other matters attendees wish to highlight.
At each meeting the Committee then receives reports from the Chief Financial Officer, the external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit, together with biannual litigation reports.
42 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Governance Terms of reference The terms of reference also set out the authority of the Committee to carry out its duties.
The Committee undertook a review of its objectives and terms of reference during the period and the full terms of reference are available at www.
Disclosure Committee To assist the Committee with the above, responsibility for identifying and considering disclosure matters in connection with the preparation of all market releases containing material financial information has been delegated to a Disclosure Committee.
This Committee comprises members of senior management from finance, legal, company secretarial and investor relations.
During the preparation of the Annual report, the Disclosure Committee obtains certications from contributors prior to the documents review by the Committee and approval by the Board.
Whistle blowing The Company provides an Ethics Helpline which is administered by an independent third party and is available to all Group employees.
This provides a mechanism for employees to raise concerns where they either do not feel comfortable raising the matter with local management or they are not satisfied with the local management response.
Internal Audit Internal Audit is led by the Head of Internal Audit, supported by a team of in-house auditors based in the UK and Jamaica, supplemented by a third party to provide specic skills as required.
The internal audit plan is approved by the Committee annually.
External audit KPMG was appointed as auditor of the Company during the financial year 2009 10 and also acted as auditor of Cable and Wireless plc from 1991.
The Committee evaluates KPMGs tenure annually and is not restricted by any contractual obligations in its choice of auditor.
The Board has accepted the Committees recommendation that KPMG should be reappointed for 2012 13.
This recommendation was based on a detailed review of the 2010 11 audit of the Company which demonstrated overall satisfaction with the performance of KPMG as external auditor.
The review included a survey of Committee members and key personnel involved in the audit, discussions with KPMG, senior management and Internal Audit, as well as an analysis of KPMGs capabilities and independence.
The audit engagement partner responsible for the 2011 12 audit was assigned on 19 March 2010.
The Committee has established a policy to maintain the independence of the external auditor and its personnel and to govern the provision of audit and non-audit services provided by the auditor and its associates.
The policy clearly identies permitted and prohibited services and sets out the procedure to be followed for the approval of all audit and non-audit services.
All engagements with an expected fee in excess of US$400,000 require the prior approval of the Chairman of the Committee.
For the year ended 31 March 2012 the Audit Committee approved fees for audit services of US$3.9 million, together with fees for audit-related regulatory reporting of US$0.6 million and non-audit work of US$0.5 million.
The nature of the services provided is set out in note 6e to the consolidated financial statements.
There is no limitation of liability in the terms of appointment of KPMG as auditor to the Company.
Simon Ball Chairman, Audit Committee 23 May 2012 Cable & Wireless Communications 43
