14 Directors Report Corporate GovernanCe Dear Shareholder Diversity on the Board I am pleased to present Cable & Wireless Worldwide plcs The current debate regarding diversity, and more Corporate Governance Report the Report for the year specifically, the importance of improving gender balance ended 31 March 2012.
The aim of this Report is to provide on boards, led to the recommendations set out by Lord you with a clear and meaningful explanation of the Davies in his report Women on Boards, which was Companys corporate governance arrangements, which published in February 2011.
The Board has considered form an essential foundation to our business culture and these recommendations and has published its position on decision making practices throughout the Group.
Further information relating to the Companys position on this important subject is set out on This year has proven to be one of significant change page 17. fortheBoard of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc.
Ibelievethat the changes made to the Board during Cable & Wireless Worldwide Foundation theyear, on the recommendation of the Companys In line with our commitment to corporate social Nomination Committee, have further strengthened the responsibility, the Company was delighted to announce Board, and have allowed it to focus on the future direction theestablishment of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide and success of the Company.
These Board changes, and Foundation the Foundation during the year.
The the work of the Nomination Committee, are set out within Foundations primary aim is to enhance the lives of those the appropriate sections of this Report.
with special needs through its expertise in mission critical In line with regulatory developments and best practice communications.
The Foundations strategy is to partner guidelines, the Companys corporate governance policies, and build relationships with institutions that support, practices and procedures have continued to evolve during research, develop or implement the appropriate, specialist the year to ensure the highest standards of best practice communication requirements for those with special needs.
Before I introduce you to the remainder of Further information on the Foundation and the Companys the Report, I would like to highlight some of the more high corporate responsibility arrangements can be found on the profile corporate governance developments that the Board Companys website.
has considered, and integrated into our business practices during the year: John Barton Chairman UK Corporate Governance Code This has been the first year the Company was required tocomply with the new UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which replaced the 2008 Combined Code onCorporate Governance.
One major development introduced by the Code was the requirement for the annual re-election of all existing Directors to the Board.
In line with this, it is the Boards intention that all Directors will either seek election or re-election at the Companys 2012 Annual General Meeting with the exception of Clive Butler, who will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2012 AGM.
Further information relating to our compliance with the Code is set out within the remainder ofthis Report.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption In response to the new UK Bribery Act 2010, which was enacted in July 2011, the Company launched its mandatory Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy to all staff within the Group, and identified around 900 key colleagues for focused training.
In addition, the Company has taken all necessary steps to ensure that its suppliers comply with the Policy, or a similarly robust policy of their own.
During the year we also reinforced our Gifts and Hospitality Policy as part of the ongoing process to ensure that we continue to operate to the highest standards of ethics and integrity.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 2011 12 15 The following sections of this Corporate Governance Report explain how the Company has complied with the Compliance with the UK principles of the Code throughout the year ended 31 March CorporateGovernance Code 2012.
As a Company with a primary listing in the UK, Board of Directors Cable&Wireless Worldwide plc was required to comply The Board of Directors of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc with the new Code for its financial year beginning 1 April is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders 2011.
The Company is therefore required to make for the success of the business.
This responsibility includes certain statements relating to the way it is governed, matters of strategy, performance, resources, standards of andexplain where provisions set out in Section 1 of the conduct and accountability.
Code have not been met during the year.
Explanations as to where the Company was not fully compliant for a The powers of Directors are set out in the Companys period of time during the year are set out below: Articles, which may be amended by way of a special resolution of the members of the Company.
7.1 of the Code provides that all directors of mayexercise all powers conferred on it by the Articles, FTSE 350 companies will be submitted for annual inaccordance with the Companies Act 2006, and other election.
As we reported in our 2010 11 Annual Report, the The Board has established a formal schedule of matters Companys Articles of Association the Articles specifically reserved for its approval, and has delegated provided that at the first two Annual General Meetings other specific responsibilities to its Committees.
These are following the demerger, one-third of the Directors clearly defined within the respective Committees written would retire from office and would be eligible for terms of reference.
The matters specifically reserved for re-election.
This provision was included in the the Boards decision are set out in writing and available on Articlesto allow for the even spread of Director the Companys website.
A summary of the key matters are re-appointments following demerger, and in view set out below.
ofthis we reported that one-third of Directors would seek re-election at the Companys second Annual General Meeting in 2011.
The Board has confirmed that the Company will be fully compliant with Code Key matters reserved for the Board provision B.
7.1 at the 2012 Annual General Meeting Approve the Groups business strategy and ensure where all existing Directors will stand forre-election that an effective management team and resources with the exception of Clive Butler, who will retire from are in place to ensure the Group meets its objectives: the Board at the conclusion of the 2012 AGM.
Approve the Companys interim and final results, the C. 3.1 of the Code provides that the Board should interim management statements, the annual report satisfy itself that at least one member of the Audit and financial statements, and dividend policy and Committee has recent and relevant financial payments: experience.
Review, via the Audit Committee, the Groups internal For the period 1 April 2011 to 21 July 2011, during controls and risk management systems, and approve which time the Audit Committee met once, there Group-wide governance policies: wasno one individual identified as having recent andrelevant financial experience.
However, the Board Approve major changes to the Groups management considered that there was a sufficient breadth of or control structure: financial expertise across the Audit Committee and Review and approve the Groups budgetary that, collectively, its members had the requisite skills requirements: and attributes to discharge its responsibilities properly.
David Lowden joined the Board as a Review the performance of the Board and the Non-executive Director and became a member of the Company and ensure succession plans are in place Audit Committee on 21 July 2011, and subsequently for key individuals: Chairman of the Committee on 13 September 2011.
Approve major press releases and documentation The Board has determined that David Lowden has tobe put to shareholders at General Meetings: recent and relevant financial experience and is a suitably qualified financial expert.
Approve major contracts and expenditure: and As at 31 March 2012, the Company had addressed the Approve the appointment and removal of Directors and the Company Secretary.
above two areas of non-compliance.
16 Directors Report Board focus during the year Appointment, removal and re-election of Directors During the year the Boards deliberations included the The Board has established a formal, rigorous and following key areas: transparent process for the selection and subsequent appointment of new Directors to the Board.
This process is Approval of Board changes during the year following described in the Nomination Committee section on page recommendations from the Nomination Committee: 22 of this Report.
The rules relating to the appointment and Review of forward looking strategy, five year plan and replacement of Directors are contained within the Articles.
financial planning: The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an Review of the deficit in the pension fund and the ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution of the subsequent approval of a 100 million contribution: Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a Director appointed in that way retires and is submitted for election Approval of interim and final results, interim management at the first Annual General Meeting AGM following their statements, and this annual report and accounts: appointment.
Review of dividend policy and approval of the subsequent suspension of the dividend until such time as free cash David Lowden and Gavin Darby, as newly appointed flow comfortably covers proposed dividends: Directors during the year, shall seek election to the Board Consideration of and evaluation of potential takeover atthe 2012 AGM.
In addition, the Board has agreed that, incompliance with Principle B.
7.1 of the Code, all other offers from third parties: existing Directors shall seek re-election at the 2012 AGM Consideration of corporate governance items including with the exception of Clive Butler, who will retire from the the roll out of a new Anti Bribery and Corruption Policy in Board at the conclusion of the 2012 AGM.
accordance with the Bribery Act 2010, Board performance evaluation, the shareholder dealing programme, and the Role of the Non-executive Directors relaunch of the Groups Gifts and Hospitality Policy: and The independent Non-executive Directors bring external Approval of all major contracts and expenditure.
insight to the Board and its Committees deliberations, providing a wealth of knowledge and business experience from other sectors and industries.
They play an important role in the formulation and progression of the Boards Composition of the Board agreed strategy, and review and monitor the performance of the executive management in the implementation of Chairman thisstrategy.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial Executive Directors three-year term, subject to their annual re-election byshareholders at the AGM, commencing with their election by shareholders at the first AGM following their Non-executive Directors appointment by the Board.
Subsequent re-appointment is subject to a rigorous review by the Nomination Committee.
The Board is made up of the Chairman, two Executive As part of its annual review of the Companys corporate Directors and three independent Non-executive Directors.
governance arrangements, the Board considered the The Board believes that this balance allows for the independence of each Non-executive Director against promotion of high-quality discussion and consideration of criteria specified in the Code, and determined that each key issues affecting the Company.
Thecomposition of the remained independent in character and judgement.
The Board is continually reviewed toensure that the composite terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive skills, knowledge and experience are suitable to meet the Directors, together with the service contracts for Executive needs of the business.
Board composition continues to be Directors, are available for inspection at the Companys a primaryfocus of the Nomination Committee.
registered office during normal business hours, and also atthe AGM.
During the year, the Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, met independently of management.
Changes made to the Board duringthe year Role of the Senior Independent Director Penny Hughes was appointed as the Companys Senior The following changes were made to the Board during Independent Director on 28 June 2011 in replacement of the year ended 31 March 2012: John Barton, who became Chairman of the Board on thatdate.
The Senior Independent Director is responsible 28 June 2011 for leading the Non-executive Directors in the annual Jim Marsh stood down as Chief Executive Officer and performance evaluation of the Chairman as well as acting Executive Director of the Company, and was replaced by as a sounding board for the Chairman.
John Barton succeeded John Pluthero as Independent Director is also available to shareholders Chairman, and Penny Hughes was appointed Senior should they find that it is inappropriate to communicate via Independent Director in replacement of John Barton.
the Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer.
The specific role of the Senior Independent Director has 21 July 2011 been set out in writing, approved by the Board, and is available on the Companys website.
Tim Weller resigned from the Company and was replaced as Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer by Ian Gibson.
David Lowden was appointed asa new Non-executive Director.
28 November 2011 Gavin Darby was appointed as Chief Executive Officer in replacement of John Pluthero, who stepped down from this position although remaining on the Board.
31 December 2011 John Pluthero resigned as an Executive Director.
The names and full biographical details of each of the current Directors are set out on pages 12 and 13.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 2011 12 17 Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separate, clearly established, set out in writing, and have been approved by the Board.
The division of responsibilities schedule is available on the Companys website.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and governance of the Board as a whole, and the Chief Executive Officer for the management of the Group, and the successful planning and implementation of the Companys strategy agreed by the Board.
A summary of the key roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive is given below, the full terms of reference are available on the Companys website: Role of the Chairman Role of the Chief Executive The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the The Chief Executive is responsible for leadership of Board.
In particular, they will: the business and managing it within the authorities delegated by the Board.
In particular, they will: Ensure effective operation of the Board and its Committees in conformity with the highest standards Develop strategy proposals and annual plans for ofcorporate governance.
recommendation to the Board and ensure that agreed strategies are reflected in the business.
Set the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions topromote constructive debate and effective decisionDevelop an organisational structure, establishing making and ensure that the flow of information to the processes and systems, and plan people resourcing Board is accurate, timely and clear.
toensure that the Company has the capabilities and resources required to achieve its plans.
Chair the Nomination Committee and build an effective and complementary Board, initiating change and Be responsible to the Board for the performance of planning succession, as well as evaluating the thebusiness consistent with agreed plans, strategies performance of the Board, its Committees and the and policies.
Lead the executive team, including the development Foster effective Board relationships between the ofperformance contracts and appraisals.
Executive and Non-executive Directors and support Ensure that financial results, business strategies the Chief Executive in the development of strategy and, where appropriate, targets and milestones are and, more broadly, to support and advise the Chief communicated to the investment community.
Develop and promote effective communication with Ensure effective communication with shareholders shareholders and other relevant constituencies.
andother relevant constituencies, and that the views ofthese groups are understood bythe Board.
Diversity on the Board We are supportive of Lord Davies In February 2011, Lord Davies of Abersoch published his recommendations although not in favour of report entitled Women on Boards, which reviewed the theimplementation of targets.
The benefits issue of gender diversity on the boards of UK listed ofgreater board diversity, not just gender companies, and made a number of recommendations.
specific, are clear and this is a positive stepforward.
All Board appointments at The Board is committed to the principles of diversity, both Cable&Wireless Worldwide plc will continue at a senior level and in the workplace as a whole.
During the to be made on merit although the Nomination year, the Board considered the recommendations from Committee will pay due consideration to Lord Lord Davies report and published the statement shown Davies recommendations on gender diversity opposite on the Companys website.
Currently the The following graphs show the gender split at Board, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc Board Operational Board, and for the workforce as a whole: comprises one woman and five men.
Gender split Gender split Gender split Board Operational Board Total workforce Female 17% Female 20% Female 24% Male 83% Male 80% Male 76% 18 Directors Report Board meetings The Board has put in place effective procedures for The Board recognises the importance of holding regular managing and, where appropriate, approving conflicts scheduled meetings throughout the year.
All Directors orpotential conflicts of interest.
Under these procedures, areexpected to attend all Board and relevant Committee Directors are required to declare all directorships or other meetings.
Should any Director be unable to attend a Board appointments to companies which are not part of the Cable or Committee meeting they are encouraged to submit their & Wireless Worldwide Group, as well as other situations views and opinions regarding the matters to be discussed which could give rise to a potential conflict.
At each Board at the meeting to the Chairman of the Board or relevant meeting, Directors are reminded of their obligation in Committee.
During the year the Board held ten scheduled relation to conflicts of interest and the Board will, where meetings and a further nine supplementary meetings.
appropriate, authorise a conflict or potential conflict, and impose all necessary restrictions and or conditions where Each year the Board aims to hold one meeting overseas to it sees fit.
The Companys register of Directors conflicts of facilitate a better understanding of the Groups business interest is reviewed by the Board on a regularbasis.
Details of Board meeting attendance by Directors is set out in the following table: No Director had a material interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries Board and Committee meeting attendance duringthe year.
fortheyear 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012 External appointments The Board has approved an Executive Director External Scheduled Non-scheduled meetings meetings Appointments Policy, which allows Executive Directors toaccept one other non-executive director position in Total meetings held during anon-conflicting FTSE listed company, and any other the year 10 9 positions in non-listed companies at the discretion of the Number of meetings attended Board.
The Board firmly believes that such appointments Number of meetings possible broaden the experience and knowledge of the Executive Chairman Directors, and are therefore beneficial to the Company.
John Barton 10 of 10 9 of 9 Theappointment of Executive Directors to such positions is subject to Board approval.
When determining whether Executive Directors toapprove such a request, the Board will consider the 1 Gavin Darby 4 of 4 5 of 5 likelytime commitment involved.
Executive Directors 2 Ian Gibson 7 of 7 6 of 6 arepermitted to retain the fees from their external 3 John Pluthero 7 of 7 4 of 4 appointments.
External appointments held by Directors 4 Jim Marsh 3 of 3 1 of 1 are set out in their biographies on pages 12 and 13.
5 Tim Weller 3 of 4 3 of 3 Induction, information and professional development Independent Non-executive Directors All new Directors appointed to the Board receive a comprehensive induction briefing tailored to meet their Clive Butler 10 of 10 9 of 9 individual needs including the provision of a full induction Penny Hughes 10 of 10 9 of 9 6 pack, and one-to-one meetings with key individuals David Lowden 7 of 7 6 of 6 withinthe business and other external parties.
Ongoing development and training is provided to Directors at Board 1 Gavin Darby was appointed as an Executive Director and Chief Executive on28November 2011 meetings and, where appropriate, Committee meetings.
2 Ian Gibson was appointed as an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer During the year, Directors received regular updates and on 21 July 2011 3 John Pluthero resigned as an Executive Director on 31 December 2011 presentations including the following: 4 Jim Marsh resigned as an Executive Director on 28 June 2011 5 Tim Weller resigned as an Executive Director on 21 July 2011 Developments within the business and the markets 6 David Lowden was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 21 July 2011 where the business operates: Legal and regulatory matters: and Directors conflicts of interest Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations where Other matters that were deemed beneficial.
they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that The Chairman, with assistance from the General conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys Counseland Company Secretary, is responsible for interests.
The Companies Act 2006 and the Companys delivering an effective induction programme for newly Articles allow the Board to authorise such conflicts of appointed Directors, and ensuring Directors training and interest.
development needs are regularly reviewed and addressed accordingly.
In addition, all Directors have full access to the advice and services of the General Counsel and Company Secretary, who is responsible for advising the Board on alllegal and governance matters, and ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed.
Directors also have the option to seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense in respect of their duties as Directors.
To facilitate the efficient dissemination of information to Directors, the Company has provided iPads to all Board members toenable them to receive and view their Board and Committee papers electronically on the day they arereleased.
The roll out of this new technology is a demonstration of a commitment within the Company tobeat the forefront of technological developments andbest practice.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 2011 12 19 Board and Committee effectiveness Directors indemnities and insurance During the year the Board undertook a review of its The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability collective performance as a Board, and of each of its Insurance which provides appropriate cover for any legal principle Committees, as well as reviewing the individual action brought against its Directors and Officers.
The performance of each Director.
This evaluation was Company has also granted indemnities to each of its conducted using comprehensive tailored questionnaires Directors to the extent permitted by law.
Qualifying and was facilitated by the General Counsel and Company third-party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 Secretary.
The Board questionnaire was completed by of the Companies Act 2006 were in force during the year each Director, and the principal Committee questionnaires ended 31 March 2012, and remain in force, in relation to were completed by the respective members of those certain losses and liabilities which the Directors may incur Committees.
to third parties in the course of acting as Directors or employees of the Company.
Copies of the indemnities The questionnaires focused on the following key and granted are available for inspection at the Companys topical themes: registered office in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Strategy: Compensation for loss of office Risk management: Information relating to Directors compensation for loss of Relations with shareholders: office in the event of change of control is set out on page 30 of the Remuneration Report.
Board diversity: Board and Committee succession planning: Operational Board The day-to-day management of the Group is delegated to Board and Committee composition: and the Operational Board.
The Operational Board is chaired Training.
by the Chief Executive Officer and made up of key senior executive management within the Group, representing all As there were significant changes to the Board during major areas of the business.
In addition to day-to-day theyear, the annual evaluation process was viewed as management of the Group, the Operational Board, which anopportunity to review the overall effectiveness of the meets on a weekly basis, provides advice and support to Board, and its Committees, identifying areas of perceived the Chief Executive Officer.
strength and weakness, and ensuring that the balance of skills was correct.
The responses to the questionnaires Board Committees formed the basis of separate reports which were In order for the Board to operate effectively, and to considered at subsequent Board and Committee enableitto dedicate the required amount of attention meetings.
The evaluation process highlighted a small andconsideration to matters reserved to it, it has formally number of areas for enhancement, which are currently established Committees of the Board, to which it has being addressed by the Board.
delegated authority to carry out certain tasks as defined As a result of the main recommendation of the Board and ineach of the Committees terms of reference.
Committee evaluation which took place in the financial year The Board reviews the terms of reference of each of its ending 31 March 2011, the Board appointed David Lowden Committees on an annual basis to ensure that they remain as a Non-executive Director, who has the requisite relevant effective, and are in line with best practice.
The written and recent financial experience to chair the Audit terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Committee.
Nomination Committees are available on the Companys As part of the overall evaluation process, the Chairman website.
The minutes of Committee meetings are made metwith each Director to evaluate their individual available to the Board on a timely basis after each meeting.
performance, and the Non-executive Directors, led In addition, the Chairmen of each of the principal bytheSenior Independent Director, met without the Committees provide updates to the Board at subsequent Chairmanbeing present to evaluate the performance Board meetings.
The overall conclusion from these The Companys Board governance structure is set out evaluations was that the Chairman, individual Directors, below.
Further details of each of the Boards Committees theBoard and its principal Committees continue to including membership, attendance and responsibilities are operateeffectively.
The Board and its Committees will set out within the following Committee reports.
continue to critically review their respective effectiveness and development during the year ahead.
Board governance structure Shareholders Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Disclosure Committee 20 Directors Report Audit Committee report Membership of the Committee The members of the Audit Committee are appointed by theBoard on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, and in accordance with provision C. 3.1 of the Code.
The composition of the Committee is made up entirely of the independent Non-executive Directors listed below: Number of meetings attended Number of meetings possible Member From To Scheduled Non-scheduled 1 David Lowden Chairman 21 July 2011 Current 2 of 2 1 of 1 2 Penny Hughes 26 March 2010 Current 3 of 3 1 of 1 Clive Butler 26 March 2010 Current 3 of 3 1 of 1 John Barton 26 March 2010 28 June 2011 1 of 1 0 of 0 1 David Lowden became Chairman of the Committee on 13 September 2011.
2 Penny Hughes stepped down as Chairman of the Committee on 13 September 2011 but remained a member of the Committee.
The Board is satisfied that David Lowden, who became Activities undertaken by the Committee Chairman of the Committee on 13 September 2011, has during the year recent and relevant financial experience, and that the During the year to 31 March 2012 the Committee held Committee complies with Rule 7.1.
1 of the Disclosure and threescheduled meetings and one unscheduled meeting.
Transparency Rules, which requires at least one member Member attendance at these meetings is set out in the ofthe Audit Committee to have competence in accounting table above.
The agenda for each meeting is prepared by and or auditing.
the Committee Chairman in conjunction with other members of the Committee and the Committee Secretary Only the members of the Committee have the right to as appropriate.
At each scheduled meeting the Committee attend Committee meetings although others including received reports from the Chief Financial Officer, the theChief Financial Officer, the Risk Director, the General external auditors and the Risk Director along with twiceCounsel and Company Secretary and the Head of yearly litigation reports from the General Counsel and Secretariat, along with representatives of the external Company Secretary.
In addition, at each of the scheduled auditor, are normally invited to each meeting.
The meetings, the Committee met privately with the external Committee undertakes its duties in accordance with its auditors, and separately with the Risk Director, who is terms of reference, which were reviewed during the year responsible for internal audit within the Group.
toensure that they remained fit for purpose and are in linewith best practice guidelines.
The written terms of During the year ended 31 March 2012, the Committees reference are available on the Companys website.
deliberations included the following key matters: Consideration and review of the Companys financial Role of the Committee performance including a review of the full and half-year The purpose of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board results, assisting the Board in assuring the integrity of the in discharging its responsibilities in respect of: financial statements and related disclosures: Monitoring the integrity and accuracy of the Groups Review of the Internal Audit functions and effectiveness financial statements, including annual, half-year and against the Internal Audit programme: interim management statements, and any formal announcement relating to the Companys financial Review of non-audit work carried out by the Groups performance: external auditor together with fees relating to this work inaccordance with the Audit and Non-Audit Fees Policy, Reviewing significant reporting issues, the consistency to ensure the auditors independence and objectivity: of accounting policies and disclosures, and any decisions requiring a major element of judgement: Consideration and approval of the Groups compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and Assisting the Board in meeting its responsibilities explanations for non-compliance: tocreate an effective system of internal control and compliance procedures, and risk management systems: Review of the Groups framework for the identification and control of major risks including risk policies and the Approving the internal audit programme and make any Groups risk review process: necessary recommendations to the Board: Review of litigation matters affecting the Company: Considering the role and independence of the external auditor, and make the appropriate recommendation to Review of confidential reporting procedures and fraud the Board on the appointment or the reappointment of prevention arrangements within the Company, including the Groups external auditors: and the Companys policy relating to anti-bribery and corruption in readiness for the Bribery Act 2010 coming Reviewing the Groups processes for detecting and into force on 1 July 2011, and any instances of whistleaddressing fraud, bribery, misconduct and control blowing during the year: weaknesses and consider reports on any such occurrence.
Consideration of the effectiveness of the Committee andthe appropriateness of its terms of reference: and Review of the external auditor, including performance, areas for improvement and level of audit fee.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 2011 12 21 Internal audit Audit and non-audit fees The internal audit function, led by the Risk Director, is The allocation of non-audit work is considered in supported by a team of internal auditors that is augmented accordance with the Groups Audit and Non-Audit Fees by specialists from  LLP as Policy, which was approved by the Committee in May 2010, required.
This function has a formal charter approved by and in line with National Association of Pension Funds the Board that mandates its purpose, authority and guidance which recommends that non-audit fees should responsibility.
The internal audit plan is approved by the not exceed 100% of audit fees.
The Audit and Non-Audit Committee on an annual basis.
Formal reports are Fees Policy sets out a framework of pre-approved audit submitted to Committee meetings, and views are also services and also services which are prohibited to be sought at private sessions between the Committee and carried out by the auditor.
The Committee maintains an theRisk Director.
The Committee annually assesses overview of the ratio of audit fees to non-audit fees charged theeffectiveness of the internal audit function using by the external auditor to ensure that its objectivity and acomprehensive evaluation questionnaire, which independence is not put at risk.
A summary of all non-audit isfacilitated by the General Counsel and Company fees is regularly provided to the Audit Committee.
The most recent evaluation concluded that the undertaken a full review of the non-audit services provided internal audit function continues to operate effectively.
by the auditor during the year ended 31 March 2012, the Committee is satisfied that these services were provided External audit effectively and did not prejudice the objectivity KPMG Audit plc KPMG has been the external auditor orindependence of the auditor.
ofthe Group since the demerger of Cable & Wireless For the year ended 31 March 2012, the Committee Worldwide plc in March 2010, having previously been approved fees of 1.6 million to KPMG, for audit and audit theexternal auditors of Cable and Wireless plc.
In addition, the Committee approved Committee manages the relationship with the external feesof 0.5 million to KPMG for non-audit related work.
auditor on behalf of the Board, and monitors their Non-audit related work accounted for 25% of the total audit independence and objectivity along with the effectiveness and audit related fees paid to the external auditor during the of the external audit on an annual basis.
A breakdown of fees paid to the auditor is set out in KPMG has expressed its willingness to be re-appointed note 2.1.
4 on page 49. asauditors of the Company.
The Committee issatisfied with the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of Disclosure Committee theexternal auditors.
As such it has recommended to The Audit Committee has delegated authority to the theBoard that KPMG be re-appointed asthe Companys Disclosure Committee to assist it with the identification auditors for a further year.
The Board hasaccepted this andconsideration of disclosure matters relating to all recommendation and has proposed aresolution to market releases containing material financial information.
shareholders at the 2012 AGM for the re-appointment The Disclosure Committee membership comprises ofKPMG as auditors.
seniormanagement from the Finance, Legal and  functions, and is chaired The external auditors are required to rotate the audit bytheChief Financial Officer.
partners responsible for the Group audit every five years.
The current lead partner has been in place for three years, During the year the Committee reviewed material external having previously been audit partner of the UK division disclosures and key documents before their release to the ofCable and Wireless plc.
TheCompany has not entered market.
With regards to the preparation of the Groups into a limitation of liability agreement with its auditors.
Annual Report, the Disclosure Committee met to obtain thenecessary certifications from contributors following In accordance with International Standards on Auditing thedocuments review by the Audit Committee, and UK & Ireland 260 and Ethical Statement 1 issued by the subsequent approval by the Board.
Accounting Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external auditors have confirmed their independence as auditors of the Company in a letter addressed to the Board.
22 Directors Report Nomination Committee Membership of the Committee The members of the Nomination Committee are appointed by the Board, and in accordance with provision B.
The composition of the Committee is made up of a majority of independent Non-executive Directors listed below, and chaired by the Chairman of the Board: Number of meetings attended Number of meetings possible Member From To Scheduled Non-scheduled 1 John Barton Chairman 26 March 2010 Current 2 of 2 5 of 5 Penny Hughes 26 March 2010 Current 2 of 2 5 of 5 Clive Butler 26 March 2010 Current 2 of 2 5 of 5 David Lowden 21 July 2011 Current 0 of 0 5 of 5 John Pluthero 26 March 2010 28 June 2011 2 of 2 1 of 1 1 John Barton became Chairman of the Committee on 28 June 2011.
The Committee meets at appropriate times during the Activities undertaken by the Committee yearto discharge its responsibilities.
During the year during the year ended31March 2012 the Committee held two scheduled During the year ended 31 March 2012, the Committees meetings and five unscheduled meetings.
Attendance at deliberations included the following matters: these meetings is set out in the table above.
The agenda for Recommended changes to the Board, which included each meeting is prepared by the Committee Chairman in the appointment of John Pluthero to replace Jim Marsh conjunction with other members of the Committee, and the as Chief Executive, John Barton appointed as Chairman, Committee Secretary, as appropriate.
and Penny Hughes appointed as Senior Independent Director: Role of the Committee The Committee is responsible for making The Committee was satisfied that the process followed recommendations to the Board, within its agreed terms during the appointment of John Barton as Chairman ofreference, on appointments to the Board.
The terms wasappropriate given his knowledge of the business ofreference of the Committee were reviewed during the and his previous role as Deputy Chairman and Senior year to ensure that they remained fit for purpose and Independent Director.
The Committee agreed that werein line with best practice guidelines.
The written neither the use of an external search agency nor open termsof reference are available on the Companys website.
advertising was necessary for this particular appointment: As discussed on page 17 the Nomination Committee will pay due consideration to Lord Davies recommendations Reviewed and made recommendations to the Board on gender diversity during the recruitment process, onthe appointment of Ian Gibson as a new Executive although it does not believe in the implementation of Director and Chief Financial Officer in replacement of quotas.
All Board appointments at Cable & Wireless Tim Weller who left the Company on 21 July 2011.
The Worldwide plc will continue to be made on merit.
Committees review included an appropriate external benchmarking exercise to ensure that the Board had The key areas of responsibility within the Committees identified a suitable candidate with the necessary skills scope include: and experience for the role: Undertaking the search for, and making With the aid of an external search agency, reviewed recommendations to the Board on, the appointment of andmade recommendations to the Board on the additional or replacement Directors, against objective appointment of David Lowden as a Non-executive criteria giving due regard for benefits of diversity on the Director with recent and relevant experience, taking Board, including gender diversity: intoaccount the conclusions of the previous Board Devising and keeping under review succession planning evaluation and the requirements of C. 3.1. of the UK arrangements for Directors and senior executives within Corporate Governance Code: and the business: With the aid of an external search agency identified and Ensuring the Chairman, Senior Independent Director made recommendations on the appointment of Gavin and Non-executive Directors are able to give sufficient Darby as the appropriate successor to John Pluthero time to their role as required: and asChief Executive Officer of the Company.
Regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and its principal Committees and making recommendations to the Board of any proposed changes.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 2011 12 23 Remuneration Committee Membership of the Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee are appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, and in accordance with provision D. 2.1 of the Code.
The Committee is made up of the independent Nonexecutive Directors listed below: Number of meetings attended Number of meetings possible Member From To Scheduled Non-scheduled Clive Butler Chairman 26 March 2010 Current 3 of 3 10 of 11 Penny Hughes 26 March 2010 Current 2 of 3 11 of 11 David Lowden 21 July 2011 Current 2 of 2 9 of 9 John Barton 26 March 2010 Current 3 of 3 10 of 11 The Committee discharges its responsibilities through a Role of the Committee series of Committee meetings held throughout the year.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board, During the year ended 31 March 2012 the Committee within its agreed terms of reference, on the framework of heldthree scheduled meetings and eleven unscheduled remuneration for the Chairman, Executive Directors, and meetings.
The large number of unscheduled meetings took adefined population of its senior executive management.
place in view of the unprecedented number of personnel The terms of reference of the Committee were reviewed changes at management and Board level during the year.
during the year to ensure that they remained fit for purpose, Attendance at these meetings is set out in the above table.
and were in line with best practice.
The written terms of The agenda for meetings is prepared by the Committee reference are available on the Companys website.
Chairman in conjunction with other members of the Committee, and the Committee Secretary as appropriate.
Activities undertaken by the Committee during the year The main responsibilities of the Committee and the activities undertaken throughout the year ended 31 March 2012 are set out in detail in the Remuneration Report on page 26.
24 Directors Report Internal control, risk management and Relations with shareholders financial reporting Shareholder engagement The Board is responsible for the system of internal control The Board places a great deal of importance on and for reviewing its effectiveness on a continual basis.
maintaining a good relationship with its shareholders, and Thesystem of internal control is designed to manage, has an ongoing active dialogue with its major shareholders rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business through a programme of investor meetings.
These objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not meetings include formal presentations from the Chief absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Executive and the Chief Financial Officer of the Groups The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the fulland half-year results.
cost of control procedures should not exceed the expected The Chairman maintains a dialogue with the Companys benefits.
larger shareholders on a variety of subjects including The Company operates a risk management process, strategy, corporate governance and Directors whichidentifies the key risks to its plans, their likelihood remuneration, and provides feedback to the Board on the and impact and the actions being taken to manage those topics raised in these meetings.
A Group-wide risk register is reviewed by the are available to attend meetings with shareholders if Directors and presented to the Audit Committee on a requested to do so, and all Directors are expected to attend sixmonthly basis.
Full details of the Companys risk the AGM.
The Board also receives reports of meetings with management processes are set out below with the institutional shareholders together with regular market principal risks identified on pages 10 and 11. reports and brokers circulars to enable it to obtain the required understanding of the views of all shareholders.
The Executive Directors report to the Board, on behalf of management, significant changes in the Groups business Penny Hughes, the Senior Independent Director, is and the external environment in which it operates.
In available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact addition, they provide the Board with monthly financial through the normal channels has either failed to resolve a information, which includes key risks and performance matter or is deemed inappropriate.
The AGM of the Company provides an excellent The Groups key internal control and monitoring opportunity for shareholder engagement and, in procedures include the following: particular, for the Chairman to explain how the Company has progressed during the year.
It also provides all Financial reporting: each year, an annual budget is shareholders with the opportunity to put questions to agreed and approved by the Board.
At each Board theChairman of the Board, the Chairmen of the Audit, meeting, actual results are reviewed and reported Remuneration and Nomination Committees, and the against budget and, when appropriate, revised Senior Independent Director.
At these meetings, a poll is forecasts: conducted on each resolution although shareholders also Investment appraisal: the Group has clear policies for have the opportunity to cast their votes by proxy, either capital expenditure.
These include annual budgets and electronically or by post.
Following each general meeting, detailed appraisal processes for such expenditure: the results of the poll are published on the Companys website and released to the London Stock Exchange.
Monitoring systems: internal controls are monitored through a programme of internal audits.
The internal The Companys website provides a wealth of information audit function reports to the Audit Committee on including latest press releases, regulatory news, historical itsexamination and evaluation of the effectiveness and financial information, details about forthcoming events for adequacy of systems of internal control: and shareholders and analysts, and other information on Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc.
Financial controls: the Company operates an annual financial controls self-assessment exercise to assist with embedding controls across the business.
This requires management to assess the effectiveness of itsfundamental operating controls over all aspects ofitsoperations, in addition to financial controls.
Effectiveness of internal control The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems in operation during the Groups financial year in accordance with the revised Turnbull guidance.
Theprocesses as set out above have been in place for theperiod under review and up to the date of this Annual Report.
Where appropriate, necessary action has been oris being taken to remedy any failings and weaknesses identified as significant during this review.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 2011 12 25 Exercise of rights of shares held by Employee The Company paid an interim dividend of 0.75 pence per Share Trusts ordinary share on 26 January 2012.
The Board announced The trustee of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Share on 15 November 2011 that following the payment of the Ownership Trust is required to abstain from voting any interim dividend on 26 January 2012, it intended to shares in which it holds the whole of the beneficial interest suspend dividend payments in the future until a point when at any general meeting, unless the Company directs that free cash flow comfortably covers any proposed future the trustee may vote.
When the Company has directed dividends.
The Board does not intend to propose a final thetrustee to vote the shares in which the trustee holds dividend for the six month period ended 31 March 2012. thewhole of the beneficial interest, the trustee may in its absolute discretion vote in any manner which it thinks American depositary receipts fitormay abstain from voting.
In February 2011 the Company established a sponsored Level I American Depositary Receipt ADR programme.
The trustees of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Share AnADR is a security which has been created to permit Ownership Trust exercise the voting rights on Cable & USinvestors to hold shares in non-US companies and Wireless Worldwide plc shares held in the employee trust trade them on the Over The Counter market in the US.
inaccordance with their fiduciary duties as trustees, which Trading in ADRs, as opposed to ordinary shares, permits include the duty to act in the best interests of the US residents to trade in US dollars in the US securities beneficiaries of the trust.
markets with US securities dealers, in the same way as they trade any US securities.
Establishing an ADR programme Dividends enables the Company to access new pools of investor The Companys shareholders can declare dividends by capital within the US and helps further build its North passing an ordinary resolution, but the payment cannot American shareholder base.
exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
TheDirectors may also pay interim dividends without Significant shareholders shareholder approval if they consider that the financial Notifications of the following material shareholdings position of the Company justifies it.
Subject to shareholder seetable below had been received by the Company in approval, the Directors may operate scrip or dividend accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, reinvestment plans, or pay dividends by distributing assets.
and the Takeover Code, as at 31 March 2012 and 21 May No dividend carries a right to interest from the Company.
Between 31 March 2012 and 21 May 2012, Deutsche Ifdividends remain unclaimed for 12 years, they may be Bank AG made the following notifications of its interests forfeited by the shareholder and revert to the Company.
inthe issued ordinary share capital of the Company: 3.55%on 26 April 2012, 4.76% on 3 May 2012 and below 3% on 8 May 2012.
