DIRECTORS REPORT Principal Risks and Uncertainties Corporate Governance The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and its The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high principal risks are therefore market related and include market risk standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines how the comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, principles of the June 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code the liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of those risks and how Code which can be found at www.
uk and the AIC Code they are managed are contained in note 23 to the financial of Corporate Governance the AIC Code were applied throughout statements on pages 42 to 48. the financial year.
The AIC Code provides a framework of best practice for investment companies and can be found at Other risks faced by the Company include the following: www.
Regulatory Risk failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements could lead to suspension of the Companys Compliance Stock Exchange Listing, financial penalties or a qualied audit report.
The Company has complied throughout the year under review with the Breach of section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could lead relevant provisions of the Code and the recommendations of the AIC to the Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
Code except that a Nomination Committee has not been established and Mr JGD Ferguson, Chairman of the Board, is Chairman of the The Managers monitor investment movements and the level of Audit Committee.
forecast income and expenditure to ensure the provisions of section 1158 are not breached.
Baillie Giffords Heads of Business Risk & As the Board comprises only four non-executive Directors, all of Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk provide regular reports to the Audit whom are considered to be independent, a Nomination Committee Committee on Baillie Giffords monitoring programmes.
The appointment of new Directors is considered by the Board as a whole and the Board conducts an Major regulatory change could impose unnecessary compliance annual review of its composition having regard to the present and burdens on the Company or threaten the viability of the investment future needs of the Company.
In such circumstances representation is made to ensure that the special circumstances of investment trusts are recognised.
The Board believes it is appropriate for Mr Ferguson to be Chairman of the Audit Committee as he is considered to be independent and Operational Financial Risk failure of the Managers accounting there are no conicts of interest.
systems or those of other third party service providers could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a The Board misappropriation of assets.
The Managers have a comprehensive The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
It has business continuity plan which facilitates continued operation of the a number of matters reserved for its approval including strategy, business in the event of a service disruption or major disaster.
The Board investment policy, currency hedging, borrowings, gearing, treasury reviews the Managers Report on Internal Controls and the Reports by matters, dividend and corporate governance policy.
A separate other third party providers are reviewed by the Managers on behalf of strategy session is held annually.
The Board also reviews the the Board.
financial statements, investment transactions, revenue budgets and performance.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board to Discount Volatility the discount at which the Companys shares enable it to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge trade can widen.
The Board monitors the level of discount and the their responsibilities.
Company has authority to buy back its own shares.
The Board currently comprises four Directors all of whom are Gearing Risk the Company may borrow money for investment non-executive.
The chairman is responsible for organising the purposes.
If the investments fall in value, any borrowings will magnify business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its the extent of this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not renewed, the agenda.
The executive responsibility for investment management has Company may have to sell investments to repay borrowings.
been delegated to the Companys Managers and Secretaries, Baillie All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and gearing Gifford & Co, and, in the context of a Board comprising only levels are discussed by the Board and Managers at every meeting.
non-executive Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
The Senior The majority of the Companys investments are in quoted securities Independent Director is Mr DCP McDougall.
The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and Employees experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership The Company has no employees.
and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on Social and Community Issues page 18.
As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or community responsibilities.
The Company however believes that it is There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
governance factors when selecting and retaining investments.
Details Terms of Appointment of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment can be The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out in formal found under Corporate Governance and Stewardship on page 23. letters of appointment which are available for inspection on request.
A Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the code all Directors offer themselves for reelection annually.
20 ANNUAL REPORT 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT capable of devoting sufficient time to the Company.
There were no Independence of Directors All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of significant changes to the Chairmans other commitments during the year.
the Managers and free of any business or other relationship which could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Induction and Training The Directors recognise the importance of succession planning for New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is company boards and the Boards composition is reviewed annually.
tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee.
Regular The Board is of the view that length of service will not necessarily briengs are provided on changes in regulatory requirements that compromise the independence or contribution of Directors of an could affect the Company and Directors.
Directors receive other investment trust company, where continuity and experience can be a relevant training as necessary.
The Board concurs with the view expressed in Remuneration the AIC Code that long serving directors should not be prevented As all the Directors are non-executive there is no requirement for a from being considered independent.
Directors fees are considered by Mr McDougall was a senior partner of Baillie Gifford & Co until he the Board as a whole within the limits approved by shareholders.
He is a director of Pacic Horizon Investment Trust The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in the Directors PLC which is also managed by Baillie Gifford & Co. Mr McDougall Remuneration Report on page 26. and Mr Ferguson are both directors of The Independent Investment Internal Controls and Risk Management Trust PLC.
Mr McDougall, Mr Ferguson and Mr Harley have all The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys risk served for more than nine years.
Following a formal performance management and internal controls systems and for reviewing their evaluation the Board has concluded that, not withstanding the effectiveness.
The systems are designed to manage rather than above, Mr McDougall, Mr Ferguson and Mr Harley continue to eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only demonstrate independence of character and judgement.
Their skills provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material and experience add signicantly to the strength of the Board.
Meetings The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed to evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of investment in accordance with Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue budgets, on the UK Corporate Governance Code published in October dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
The Board 2005 The Turnbull Guidance.
considers that it meets sufciently regularly to discharge its duties The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the effectively.
The table below shows the attendance record for the Board and the Audit Committee meetings held during the year.
All of Companys risk management and internal controls systems and they have procedures in place to review their effectiveness on a regular the Directors attended the Annual General Meeting.
No significant weaknesses were identied in the year under review.
Directors Attendance at Meetings The practical measures to ensure compliance with regulation and Audit company law, and to provide effective and efficient operations and Name Board Committee investment management, have been delegated to the Managers and Secretaries, Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of the Number of meetings 6 2 Management Agreement.
JGD Ferguson 62 The practical measures in relation to the design, implementation and CC Ferguson 62 maintenance of control policies and procedures to safeguard the EM Harley 62 assets of the Company and to manage its affairs properly, including DCP McDougall 62 the maintenance of effective operational and compliance controls and risk management have also been delegated to Baillie Gifford & Performance Evaluation Co.
The Board acknowledges its responsibilities to supervise and An appraisal of the Chairman, each Director and a performance control the discharge by the Managers and Secretaries of their evaluation and review of the Board as a whole and the Audit obligations.
Committee was carried out during the year.
The performance of The Baillie Gifford & Co Heads of Business Risk & Internal Audit and each Director was appraised by the Chairman and the Chairmans Regulatory Risk provide the Board with regular reports on Baillie appraisal was led by Mr DCP McDougall, the Senior Independent Gifford & Cos monitoring programmes.
The reporting procedures for Director.
The appraisals and evaluations considered, amongst other these departments are dened and formalised within a service level criteria, the balance of skills of the Board, training and development agreement.
Baillie Gifford & Co conduct an annual review of their requirements, the contribution of individual Directors and the overall system of internal controls which is documented within an internal effectiveness of the Board and the Audit Committee.
Following this controls report which complies with Technical Release AAF 01 06 process it was concluded that the performance of each Director, the Assurance Reports on Internal Controls of Service Organisations Chairman, the Board and the Audit Committee continues to be made available to Third Parties.
This report is independently effective and that each Director and the Chairman remain committed reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos auditors and a copy is submitted to the Company.
A review of the Chairmans and other Directors to the Audit Committee.
commitments was carried out and the Board is satisfied that they are THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 DIRECTORS REPORT The Companys investments are segregated from those of Baillie The Committees responsibilities which were discharged during the Gifford & Co and their other clients through the appointment of The year include: Bank of New York Mellon as independent custodian of the s MONITORING THE INTEGRITY OF THE HALF YEARLY AND ANNUAL lNANCIAL Companys investments.
The custodian prepares a report on its statements and any formal announcements relating to the internal controls which is independently reviewed by KPMG LLP.
Companys financial performance: A detailed risk map is prepared which identies the significant risks s REVIEWING THE ADEQUACY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROL AND faced by the Company and the key controls employed to manage risk management systems: these risks.
"s MAKING RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE ""OARD IN RELATION TO THE These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly to the appointment of the external auditors and approving the nature and extent of the risks facing the Company and that they are remuneration and terms of their engagement: being actively monitored."
Where changes in risk have been s DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING POLICY ON THE ENGAGEMENT OF THE identied during the year they also provide a mechanism to assess external auditors to supply non-audit services: whether further action is required to manage the risks identied.
The Board confirms that these procedures have been in place throughout s REVIEWING AND MONITORING THE INDEPENDENCE OBJECTIVITY AND the Companys financial year and continue to be in place up to the effectiveness of the external auditors: date of approval of this Report.
"s REVIEWING THE ARRANGEMENTS IN PLACE WITHIN ""AILLIE 'IFFORD Internal Audit Co whereby its staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about The Audit Committee carries out an annual review of the need for an possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other internal audit function."
The Audit Committee continues to believe that matters insofar as they may affect the Company: the Managers compliance and internal control systems and internal s REVIEWING THE TERMS OF THE NVESTMENTANAGEMENT !GREEMENT AND audit function provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of s CONSIDERING WHETHER THERE IS A NEED FOR THE #OMPANY TO HAVE ITS internal control, which safeguards shareholders investment and the own internal audit function.
An internal audit function, specic to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
 LLP are engaged as the Companys Auditors.
Having considered the experience and tenure of the audit Accountability and Audit partner and staff and the nature of services provided, the Committee The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditors in remains satisfied with the Auditors effectiveness.
The audit partners connection with the Financial Statements are set out on pages 25 responsible for the audit are rotated every 5 years and the current and 27 respectively.
lead partner has been in place for 5 years.
Accordingly, a new lead Going Concern audit partner has been appointed for next year.
There are no In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance on contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of external going concern and liquidity risk, the Directors have undertaken a auditor.
The Committee receives conrmation from the Auditors that rigorous review of the Companys ability to continue as a going they have complied with the relevant UK professional and regulatory concern.
The Companys principal risks are market related and requirements on independence.
Non-audit fees for the year to include market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of 30 April 2012 were 1,000, and related to the certication of these risks and how they are managed is contained in note 23 to financial information for the debenture trustees.
The Committee does the financial statements.
not believe that this has impaired the Auditors independence.
The Companys assets, the majority of which are investments in Relations with Shareholders quoted securities which are readily realisable, exceed its liabilities The Board places great importance on communication with signicantly.
All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board.
The Companys Managers meet regularly with The Board approves borrowing and gearing limits and reviews shareholders and report shareholders views to the Board.
The Chairman regularly the amounts of any borrowings and the level of gearing as is available to meet with shareholders as appropriate.
Shareholders well as compliance with borrowing covenants.
Accordingly, the wishing to communicate with any members of the Board may do so by financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis writing to them at the Secretaries address on the back cover.
as it is the Directors opinion that the Company will continue in The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The level of proxies lodged for Audit Committee each resolution is announced at the AGM and is published on the An Audit Committee has been established consisting of all Directors.
Companys page of the Managers website Its authority and duties are clearly dened within its written terms of www.
co. uk subsequent to the meeting.
reference which are available on request and on the Companys page Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date of the Managers website: www.
Mr JGD information on the Company from the Managers website.
Ferguson is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board believes it is appropriate for Mr Ferguson to be Chairman of the Committee as he Corporate Governance and Stewardship is considered to be independent and there are no conicts of interest.
The Company has given discretionary voting powers to the Investment Managers, Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote against resolutions they consider may damage shareholders rights or economic interests.
