Statement of Corporate Governance Introduction commercial and professional experience, within an international perspective.
The Company is committed to a high standard of corporate governance.
The Board sets the Companys values and objectives and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders are met.
The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to During the year ended 31 December 2012 the Board met six describe how they have complied with the principles of the times and there was a separate strategy meeting as well as UK Corporate Governance Code published in May 2010 the three Board Committee meetings.
The primary focus at Governance Code, which is available on the Financial regular Board Meetings is a review of investment Reporting Councils website: www.
The Governance performance and associated matters, including gearing, asset Code covers the annual re-appointment of Directors, Board allocation, marketing and investor relations, peer group diversity, external evaluation, the Boards responsibilities in information and industry issues.
Between these meetings, the relation to risk, and a clear explanation of business model Board maintains regular contact with the Manager.
"formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains In October 2010 the Association of Investment Companies full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, AIC published a Code of Corporate Governance ""AIC operational and compliance issues."
"These matters include: Code"" and a Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide which are available on the AICs the maintenance of clear investment objectives and risk website: www."
The AIC Code, as explained by the management policies.
AIC Guide, addresses all of the principles set out in Section 1 the monitoring of the business activities of the Company of the Governance Code, as well as setting out additional ranging from analysis of investment performance through principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific to annual budgeting and quarterly forecasting and variance relevance to investment trusts.
Companies Act requirements such as the approval of the The Board considers that reporting against the principles and interim and annual financial statements and approval and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the recommendation of the interim and final dividends AIC Guide which incorporates the Governance Code will respectively.
provide better information to shareholders.
setting the level of gearing which the Manager may operate.
Application of the AIC Code Board appointments and removals and the related terms The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for subject to appropriate shareholder approval.
good governance and this statement describes how the appointment and removal of the Manager and the terms principles identified in the AIC Code have been applied by the and conditions of the management and administration Company.
Save for the exception noted below, the Company agreements relating thereto.
has complied with the provisions set out in the AIC Code and terms of reference and membership of Board Committees.
the relevant provisions of the Code throughout the year Stock Exchange UK Listing Authority Financial Services ended 31 December 2012.
Authority responsibility such as approval of all circulars, listing particulars and approval of all releases concerning The Board matters decided by the Board.
The Board consists of six non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered to be independent of the Manager In addition there were three meetings of the Audit Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited or the Manager and Committee, one meeting of the Remuneration Committee, free of any relationship which could materially interfere with one meeting of the Management Engagement Committee, the exercise of their independent judgement on issues of two meetings of the Nomination Committee and two other strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
should be noted that: The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
the Chairman was independent on appointment and, in Mr Shedden is the senior independent non-executive compliance with the AIC Code, continues to be so: Director.
the Company does not have an internal audit function There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take Governance Code Provision C3.5.
independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Directors have access to the advice Biographies of the Directors appear on pages 23 and 24 of and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its this report and indicate their range of high level industrial, 30 Murray International Trust PLC Boards intention to use an external consultant to assist in appointed representatives who are responsible to the Board: the Boards performance evaluation at least every three years.
As part of the Directors evaluation process the for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with: training needs of Directors, if any, were discussed and agreed.
under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring good information flows with the Board and its committees, as The Board and Nomination Committee have also reviewed well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional the Chairmans and Directors other commitments and are development as required: and, satisfied that the Chairman and other Directors are capable for advising through the Chairman on all corporate of devoting sufficient time to the Company and contribute governance matters.
to the effective running of the Company.
The Chairman has been satisfactorily evaluated by his fellow Directors.
The When a Director is appointed, an induction meeting is Board is satisfied with its current balance, performance and arranged by the Manager.
Directors are provided, on a regular the contributions of its Directors during the year.
basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to External Agencies the Board as they arise.
The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, including the Manager and other service providers, certain Directors have attended Board meetings and Committee services: the management of the investment portfolio, the meetings held during the year as shown below with their custodial services which include the safeguarding of the eligibility to attend the relevant meeting in brackets : assets, the registration services and the day to day accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of Audit Other Regular Nom.
these contracts was entered into after full and proper Board Com.
consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services K J Carter 6 6 2 2 n a 3 3 offered in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
Lady Balfour of 6 6 2 2 3 3 4 4 The Board receives and considers regular monitoring reports Burleigh from the Manager in respect of the delegated service J D Best 6 6 2 2 3 3 3 4 providers.
In addition ad hoc reports and information are P W Dunscombe 6 6 2 2 3 3 4 4 supplied to the Board as requested.
A C Shedden 6 6 2 2 3 3 4 4 Committees M Campbell 4 4 0 0 2 2 2 2 Dr Carter is not a member of either the Audit Committee or the Remuneration The composition of the Committees is shown below under Committee but attended all Committee meetings by invitation the headings of each Committee.
Terms of reference for each excluding B Ord capitalisation and allotment meetings Committee are available on request and copies are also Appointed 27 April 2012 available on the Companys website.
To enable the Board to function effectively and allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely Nomination Committee access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of A Nomination Committee has been established with written Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of terms of reference copies of which are available upon request papers, including the Managers review and discussion from the Company Secretary and also on the Company's documents regarding specific matters.
Directors have made website, and comprises the following members, all of whom further enquiries where necessary.
are independent from any relationship that would interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their The Board and Committees have undertaken their annual responsibilities: performance evaluation, by means of general discussion and individual interviews between the Chairman and the other Dr K J Carter Chairman of the Committee Directors, to ensure that all Directors have devoted sufficient Lady Balfour of Burleigh time and contributed adequately to the work of the Board Mr J D Best and Committees.
During the year, the Board also employed Mr P W Dunscombe the services of Law Debenture Governance Services Limited Ms M Campbell to carry out an external evaluation of the Boards and Mr A C Shedden individual Directors performance.
The external consultant held individual meetings with each Director, with the The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on consultants report on the outcome being discussed with the the following matters: Chairman of the Board and the Board as a whole.
It is the Murray International Trust PLC 31 Statement of Corporate Governance continued interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their the identification and nomination of candidates to fill responsibilities: Board vacancies as and when they arise for the approval of the Board.
The identification of such candidates is carried Mr A C Shedden Chairman until conclusion of AGM on 11 out in conjunction with the Board by an independent firm April 2013 of consultants: Ms M Campbell Chairman from conclusion of AGM on 11 plans for succession: April 2013 the re-appointment of any non-executive Director at the Lady Balfour of Burleigh conclusion of their specified term of office: Mr J D Best the re-election by shareholders of any Director under the Mr P W Dunscombe retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles of Association: The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are reviewed the continuation in office of any Director at any time: and and re-assessed for their adequacy on an annual basis.
The the appointment of any Director to another office e. g. work undertaken by the Audit Committee during the year Chairman of the Audit Committee other than to the under review, in accordance with those terms of reference position of Chairman, the recommendation for whom included: would be considered at a meeting of the Board.
During the year the Nomination Committee initiated a the review of the effectiveness of the internal control search for an additional Director using the services of environment of the Company to assist in this the Fletcher Jones Limited as its external recruitment consultant.
Company receives reports from the internal and external The Committee identified the specifications for the new auditor on a regular basis: Director including the requisite skills and experience that the review of the annual accounts and half yearly report: would complement the existing Board and having due regard the review of the terms of appointment of the auditor for the benefits of diversity on the Board.
The Committee together with their remuneration as well as non-audit considered several high quality candidates and identified Ms services provided by the auditor.
Although there is no fixed Marcia Campbell as the preferred candidate due to her rotation in place for the Companys auditor, the Companys relevant experience and expertise.
Ms Campbell was audit arrangements are reviewed on a periodic basis in appointed to the Board on 27 April 2012. order to confirm that the engagement terms remain in line with the market and competitive: The Boards overriding priority in appointing new Directors to the review of the scope and the results of the audit and the the Board is to identify the candidate with the best range of independence and objectivity of the auditor it should be skills and experience to complement existing Directors.
The noted that the auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, changes the Board recognises the benefits of gender diversity.
partner responsible for the audit every five years : the review of the auditors management letter and the The Committee met twice during the year.
The Committee Managers and Directors responses: also considered the re-election of all the Directors.
The the review of the Managers whistleblowing Committee concluded that the knowledge and experience of arrangements: the Directors is greatly valued by the Board and the review of the management agreement: and recommended their re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
meetings with representatives of the Manager.
In accordance with Principle 3 of the AICs Code of Corporate Details of attendance at the Audit Committee meetings are Governance which recommends that the directors of FTSE shown on page 31.
350 companies should be subject to annual re-election by shareholders, all the members of the Board, with the The Board receives a letter from Ernst & Young LLP, its exception of Ms M Campbell, will retire at the forthcoming auditor, which notes that Ernst & Young has policies and Annual General Meeting and will offer themselves for reprocedures in place that instil professional values as part of election.
Ms M Campbell was appointed during the year and its firms culture and ensure that the highest standards of will retire at the AGM and offer herself for re-election.
objectivity and independence and integrity are maintained.
Accordingly, the Board confirms its belief that Ernst & Young Audit Committee is independent in accordance with the Governance Code.
An Audit Committee has been established with written terms of reference, copies of which are available upon request from Management Engagement Committee the Company Secretary and also on the Company's website, As recommended by the AIC Code, a Management and comprises the following members, all of whom are Engagement Committee has been established with written independent and free from any relationship that would terms of reference, copies of which are available upon 32 Murray International Trust PLC request from the Company Secretary and on the Company's Policy on Tenure website, comprising the following members, all of whom are The Board takes the view that independence is not independent and free from any relationship that would necessarily compromised by length of tenure on the Board interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their and that experience can add significantly to the Boards responsibilities: strength.
The other Directors have discussed the re-election of Mr Shedden and, notwithstanding that he is in his twelfth Dr K J Carter Chairman of the Committee year of service with the Company, confirm that he remains Lady Balfour of Burleigh independent.
Accordingly the other Directors are very Mr J D Best pleased to recommend to shareholders that they support the Mr P W Dunscombe re-election of Mr Shedden.
Ms M Campbell Mr A C Shedden Communication with Shareholders The Company places a great deal of importance on The Committee meets annually in order to review matters communication with its shareholders.
The Manager has an concerning the management agreement which exists with annual programme of meetings with institutional Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Details of the shareholders and reports back to the Board on these management agreement are shown on page 27 of the meetings.
There was one meeting of the Committee during the year which was attended by all the Committee The Company has adopted a nominee code, which ensures members.
that, when its shares are held in the name of nominee companies and notification has been received in advance, Remuneration Committee nominee companies will be provided with copies of The Company has appointed a Remuneration Committee, shareholder communications for distribution to their comprising the following members, which met once during customers.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings the year: and speak at meetings when invited by the Chairman.
Lady Balfour of Burleigh Chairman of the Committee Participants in the Savings Plan, whose shares are held in the Mr J D Best nominee names of the plan administrator, are given the Mr P W Dunscombe opportunity to vote by means of a Letter of Direction Ms M Campbell enclosed with the Annual Report.
The Letter of Direction is Mr A C Shedden forwarded to the administrator of the Savings Plan, who will complete a proxy on behalf of the participants and forward it The Combined Code recommends that all the members of to the Companys registrar for inclusion in the voting figures.
the Committee should be independent.
The remuneration of Those participants who attend the Annual General Meeting the Directors has been set in order to attract individuals of a are given the opportunity to speak when invited by the calibre appropriate to the future development of the Chairman.
As required under the Code, the Annual Report is Company.
The Companys policy on Directors remuneration, posted to shareholders at least twenty business days before together with details of the remuneration of each Director, is the Annual General Meeting.
detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 and 38.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the meeting and the resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Directors Terms of Appointment Report on pages 25 to 27.
Separate resolutions are proposed All non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term for each issue.
of three years, subject to re-election and Companies Act provisions and, in accordance with the existing Articles of The Board is very conscious that the Annual General Meeting Association, stand for election at the first Annual General is an event for all shareholders and encourages them to Meeting following their appointment.
Although the Articles attend and participate.
The Manager makes a presentation to of Association state that Directors must offer themselves for the meeting outlining the key investment issues that affect re-election at least once every three years, in accordance the Company.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put with corporate governance best practice, each Director questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The submits for annual re-election.
Any Director who seeks renumber of proxy votes is relayed to shareholders at the election beyond six years will be subject to particularly Annual General Meeting, after each resolution has been dealt rigorous review to ensure that their performance continues with on a show of hands.
Murray International Trust PLC 33 Statement of Corporate Governance continued FRC Guidance and includes financial, regulatory, market, Shareholders also have direct access to the Company via the operational and reputational risk.
This helps the internal audit free shareholder information telephone service run by the risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
Manager, and the Company and the Manager respond to Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Company and letters from shareholders.
The Manager meets regularly with timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to major shareholders and reports back to the Board on these systems.
The implementation of any remedial action required visits.
A website from which the Companys reports and is monitored and feedback provided to the Company.
other publications can be downloaded is maintained on www.
The key components designed to provide effective internal control for the year under review and up to the date of this Accountability and Audit Report are outlined below: The Directors Statement of Responsibilities in respect of the financial statements is on page 36 and the Statement of the Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts Going Concern is included in the Directors Report on page which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities 28.
The Independent Auditors Report is on page 39. and review its investment performance: the Board and Manager have agreed clearly defined Disclosure and Transparency Rules investment criteria: Shareholders attention is drawn to the further information there are specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
on page 29 which is disclosed in accordance with the Reports on these issues, including performance statistics Companies Act 2006 and Rule 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure and and investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the Transparency Rules.
The Managers evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies concerned include detailed Internal Control appraisal and due diligence: The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the as a matter of course the compliance department of Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its Aberdeen Asset Managers continually reviews the effectiveness.
Following the Financial Reporting Council's Managers operations: publication of Internal Control: Revised Guidance for written agreements are in place which specifically define Directors on the Combined Code the FRC guidance, the the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third Directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for party service providers and monitoring reports are received identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks from these providers when required: faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the the Board has considered the need for an internal audit full year under review and up to the date of approval of the function but, because of the compliance and internal financial statements, and this process is regularly reviewed control systems in place at the Manager, has decided to by the Board and accords with the FRC Guidance.
place reliance on the Managers systems and internal audit procedures: and The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of twice a year, at its Board meetings, the Board carries out an internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process assessment of internal controls by considering for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by documentation from the Manager, including its internal the Company and the policies and procedures by which these audit and compliance functions and taking account of risks are managed.
events since the relevant period end.
The Directors have delegated the investment management of In addition, the Manager ensures that clearly documented the Companys assets to the Manager within overall contractual arrangements exist in respect of any activities guidelines and this embraces implementation of the system that have been delegated to external professional of internal control, including financial, operational and organisations.
compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit The Head of Internal Audit of the Manager reports six function which undertakes periodic examination of business monthly to the Audit Committee of the Company and has processes, including compliance with the terms of the direct access to the Directors at any time.
management agreement, and ensures that recommendations to improve controls are implemented.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is Risks are identified and documented through a risk exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are management framework by each function within the designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can 34 Murray International Trust PLC provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against for its shareholders.
Accordingly, whilst the Manager will seek to favour companies which pursue best practice in the above material misstatement or loss.
areas, this must not be to the detriment of the return on the investment portfolio.
Proxy Voting and Stewardship The Financial Reporting Council FRC published the UK By order of the Board of Murray International Trust PLC Stewardship Code for Institutional shareholders on 2 July 2010.
The purpose of the Code is to enhance the quality of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC engagement between institutional investors and companies Secretary to help improve long-term returns to shareholders and the 40 Princes Street, efficient exercise of governance responsibilities.
Edinburgh EH2 2BY 26 February 2013 The FRC is encouraging institutional investors to make a statement of their commitment to the Code.
The Board has delegated responsibility for actively monitoring the activities of portfolio companies to the Manager.
The Manager is responsible for reviewing, on a regular basis, the annual reports, circulars and other publications produced by the portfolio company, and for attending company meetings.
The Manager, in the absence of explicit instruction from the Board, is empowered to use discretion in the exercise of the Companys voting rights.
The Managers policy is to vote all shares held by the Company.
The Board has reviewed, and endorses, the Managers Corporate Governance Principles, which may be found on the Managers website, at: http: www.
nsf Lit  This sets out the Managers framework on corporate governance, proxy voting and shareholder engagement in relation to the companies in which the Manager has invested or is considering investing.
The Board has also reviewed the Managers Statement of Compliance with the Code, which appears on the Managers website, at: http: www.
nsf AboutUs  The Board receives from the Manager regular reports on the exercise by the Manager of the Companys voting rights.
Socially Responsible Investment Policy The Board is aware of its duty to act in the interests of the Company.
The Board acknowledges that there are risks associated with investment in companies which fail to conduct business in a socially responsible manner.
The Manager considers social, environmental and ethical factors which may affect the performance or value of the Companys investments.
The Directors, through the Companys Manager, encourage companies in which investments are made to adhere to best practice in the area of Corporate Governance.
They believe that this can best be achieved by entering into a dialogue with company management to encourage them, where necessary, to improve their policies in this area.
The Company's ultimate objective however is to deliver superior investment returns Murray International Trust PLC 35
