FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 AND PERIOD ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011 ANNUAL REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT CONTINUED Corporate Governance Statement continued d Internal controls The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
The process is subject to regular review by the Board and accords with the UK Code of Corporate Governance.
The Board is responsible overall for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board, assisted by the Investment Manager, has undertaken a full review of the Companys business risks, which have been analysed and recorded in a risk report, which is reviewed and updated regularly.
The Board receives each quarter from the Investment Manager a formal report which details the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk including those that are not directly the responsibility of the Investment Manager and which reports the details of any known internal control failures.
The Board receives each year from the Administrator a report on its internal controls which includes a report from the Administrators auditors on the control policies and procedures in operation.
The Investment Manager has established an internal control framework to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance on the effectiveness of the internal controls operated on behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed by the Investment Managers compliance and risk department on an ongoing basis.
The Investment Managers controls processes have also been outlined to the Board.
By means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls for the year ended 31 December 2012 and to the date of approval of this Annual Report and that no issues have been noted.
Relationship with the Investment Manager and the Administrator The Board has delegated various duties to external parties including the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services including the safeguarding of assets, the registration services and the day-to-day company secretarial, administration and accounting services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered, including the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives and considers reports regularly from the Investment Manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
The Investment Manager takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments.
The Investment Manager and Administrator also ensure that all Directors receive, in a timely manner, all relevant management, regulatory and financial information.
Representatives of the Investment Manager and Administrator attend each Board meeting enabling the Directors to probe further on matters of concern.
A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board has been defined and a procedure adopted for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company within certain parameters.
The Directors have access to the advice and service of the corporate Company Secretary through its appointed representative who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Board, the Investment Manager and the Administrator operate in a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
