DIRECTORS REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT CONTINUED Market price risk The market value of senior secured loans may vary because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the financial condition of the underlying borrowers, the industry in which a borrower operates, general economic or political conditions, interest rates, the condition of the debt trading markets and certain other financial markets, developments or trends in any particular industry and changes in prevailing interest rates.
The Investment Manager carries out extensive due diligence on each borrower which is subsequently assessed by its credit committee to mitigate this risk.
Accounting, legal and regulatory The Company must comply with the provisions of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended and, since its shares are admitted to listing on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, the Company is subject to the FSAs Listing, Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
A breach of the legislation could result in the Company and or the Directors being fined or subject to criminal proceedings.
A breach of the Listing Rules could result in the suspension of the Companys shares.
The Board relies on its company secretary and advisers to ensure adherence to the Guernsey legislation and the FSAs rules.
The Investment Manager and the Administrator are contracted to provide investment, company secretarial, administration and accounting services through qualified professionals.
The Board receives regular internal control reports from the Administrator that confirm compliance.
The Companys subsidiaries, which are incorporated in Luxembourg, have to comply with the local regulatory and statutory rules and requirements.
The Board relies on the Investment Manager and advisers of these subsidiaries to ensure adherence to Luxembourg legislation.
Operational Disruption to, or the failure of either the Investment Managers or the Administrators accounting, dealings or payment systems, or the custodians records could prevent the accurate reporting or monitoring of the Companys financial position.
Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by the Investment Manager and the Administrator, and the key elements designed to provide effective internal control are explained further in the internal controls section of the Corporate Governance Statement, which is set out below.
Corporate Governance Statement Applicable corporate governance codes The Board of the Company has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for investment companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
Copies of the AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be found at www.
co. uk On 1 January 2012, the Guernsey Financial Services Commissions GFSC Finance Sector Code of Corporate Governance came into effect.
The GFSC have stated in their Code that companies which report against the UK Corporate Governance Code or the AIC Code are deemed to meet their Code, and need take no further action.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2012 and period ended 31 December 2011 13
