DIRECTORS REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT CONTINUED Corporate Governance Statement continued c The Board continued Board Committees continued Remuneration and Nomination Committee The Remuneration and Nomination Committee meets at least annually for the purpose of considering the remuneration of the Directors.
It also: i identifies individuals qualified to become Board members and selects the director nominees for election at general meetings of the Shareholders or for appointment to fill vacancies: ii determines director nominees for each committee of the Board: and iii considers the appropriate composition of the Board and its committees.
In addition, the chairmanship of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and Management Engagement Committee and each Directors performance is reviewed annually by the Chairman and the performance of the Chairman has been assessed by the remaining Directors.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee comprises all the Directors.
Sandra Platts acts as Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
No new Directors were appointed during the year.
Management Engagement Committee The Company's Management Engagement Committee meets at least annually for the purpose of reviewing the performance of, and contractual relations with service providers including the Investment Manager.
The Management Engagement Committee comprises each of the Directors.
Sandra Platts acts as Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee.
The principal duties of the Management Engagement Committee are to review and make recommendations on any proposed amendment to the Investment Management Agreement and keep under review the performance of the Investment Manager in its role as Investment Manager to the Company.
The Committee also reviews the performance of the other service providers, their appointment and their remuneration.
The Management Engagement Committee did not identify any issues or amend any agreements during the 2012 review.
Meeting attendance The number of formal meetings during the year of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Management Engagement Committee and the Remuneration and Nomination Committee, and the attendance of individual Directors at those meetings, is shown in the following table: Remuneration and Management Engagement Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Committee Number of meetings during the year 5 5 1 1 William Frewen 5 4 1 1 Sandra Platts 4 4 1 1 Richard Battey 5 5 1 1 In addition, 7 ad-hoc meetings and 1 Committee meeting were held during the year for various matters including but not limited to dividends and issues of shares under block listing tap issues.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2012 and period ended 31 December 2011 17
