DIRECTORS REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT CONTINUED Market price risk The market value of senior secured loans may vary because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the financial condition of the underlying borrowers, the industry in which a borrower operates, general economic or political conditions, interest rates, the condition of the debt trading markets and certain other financial markets, developments or trends in any particular industry and changes in prevailing interest rates.
The Investment Manager carries out extensive due diligence on each borrower which is subsequently assessed by its credit committee to mitigate this risk.
Accounting, legal and regulatory The Company must comply with the provisions of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended and, since its shares are admitted to listing on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, the Company is subject to the FSAs Listing, Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
A breach of the legislation could result in the Company and or the Directors being fined or subject to criminal proceedings.
A breach of the Listing Rules could result in the suspension of the Companys shares.
The Board relies on its company secretary and advisers to ensure adherence to the Guernsey legislation and the FSAs rules.
The Investment Manager and the Administrator are contracted to provide investment, company secretarial, administration and accounting services through qualified professionals.
The Board receives regular internal control reports from the Administrator that confirm compliance.
The Companys subsidiaries, which are incorporated in Luxembourg, have to comply with the local regulatory and statutory rules and requirements.
The Board relies on the Investment Manager and advisers of these subsidiaries to ensure adherence to Luxembourg legislation.
Operational Disruption to, or the failure of either the Investment Managers or the Administrators accounting, dealings or payment systems, or the custodians records could prevent the accurate reporting or monitoring of the Companys financial position.
Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by the Investment Manager and the Administrator, and the key elements designed to provide effective internal control are explained further in the internal controls section of the Corporate Governance Statement, which is set out below.
Corporate Governance Statement Applicable corporate governance codes The Board of the Company has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for investment companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
Copies of the AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be found at www.
co. uk On 1 January 2012, the Guernsey Financial Services Commissions GFSC Finance Sector Code of Corporate Governance came into effect.
The GFSC have stated in their Code that companies which report against the UK Corporate Governance Code or the AIC Code are deemed to meet their Code, and need take no further action.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2012 and period ended 31 December 2011 13 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 AND PERIOD ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011 ANNUAL REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT CONTINUED Corporate Governance Statement continued a Statement of compliance The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code of Corporate Governance, except as set out below.
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: The role of the chief executive Executive directors remuneration Internal audit function For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
b Directors and their interests Board independence and composition The Board, chaired by William Frewen who is responsible for its leadership and for ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role, currently consists of three non-executive Directors.
The biographical details of the Directors holding office at the date of this report are listed on the Board of Directors section, and demonstrate a breadth of investment, accounting and professional experience.
A senior independent director has not been identified as the Board considers that all the Directors have different qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead where issues arise and to whom concerns can be conveyed.
The Chairman and all Directors are considered independent.
The Directors consider that there are no factors, as set out in provision 2 of the AIC Code, which compromise the Directors independence and that they all contribute to the affairs of the Company in an adequate manner.
The Directors review their independence annually.
Directors appointment No Director has a service contract with the Company.
Directors have agreed letters of appointment with the Company, copies of which are available for review by shareholders at the Registered Office and will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
All Directors have served since incorporation of the Company.
Any Director may resign in writing to the Board at any time.
In accordance with the AIC Code, as a FTSE 250 company, all Directors will be subject to re-election annually by shareholders.
The names and biographies of the Directors holding office at the date of this report are listed on the Board of Directors section.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee reviewed the independence, contributions and performance of all Directors during the 2012 Board Evaluation and have determined that it is in the best interests of the Company to propose that all Directors are proposed for re-election.
14 NEUBERGER BERMAN DIRECTORS REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT CONTINUED Corporate Governance Statement continued b Directors and their interests continued Conflicts of interest Directors are required to disclose all actual and potential conflicts of interest to the Board as they arise for consideration and the Board may impose restrictions or refuse to authorise conflicts if deemed appropriate.
None of the Directors had a material interest in any contract, which is significant to the Companys business or had an interest in the Companys share capital during the year ended 31 December 2012.
There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors since the year-end other than in respect of Mr Batteys purchase of 20,000 C Shares in March 2013.
Induction and training Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory requirements and its internal controls.
Regulatory and legislative changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise along with changes to best practice from, amongst others, the Company Secretary and the Auditors.
Advisers to the Company also prepare reports for the Board from time to time on relevant topics and issues.
In addition, Directors attend relevant seminars and events to allow them to continually refresh their skills and knowledge and keep up with changes within the investment company industry.
The Chairman reviewed the training and development needs of each Director during the annual Board evaluation process.
He confirmed that all directors actively kept up to date with industry developments and issues.
When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he she will be provided with all relevant information regarding the Company and his her duties and responsibilities as a Director.
In addition, a new Director will also spend time with representatives of the Investment Manager in order to learn more about their processes and procedures.
Directors indemnity To the extent permitted by Guernsey Law, the Companys Articles of Incorporation provide an indemnity for the Directors against any liability except such if any as they shall incur by or through their own breach of trust, breach of duty or negligence.
During the year, the Company has maintained insurance cover for its Directors and Officers under a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy.
c The Board Responsibilities The Board meets at least four times each year and deals with the important aspects of the Companys affairs including the setting and monitoring of investment strategy, and the review of investment performance.
The Investment Manager and Sub-Investment Manager take decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments, in line with the investment policy and strategy set by the Board.
The Investment Manager together with the Company Secretary also ensures that all Directors receive, in a timely manner, all relevant management, regulatory and financial information relating to the Company and its portfolio of investments.
Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each Board meeting, enabling Directors to question any matters of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
Matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board have been defined and a procedure adopted for Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2012 and period ended 31 December 2011 15
