Corporate Governance Statement Compliance with the Introduction UK Corporate Governance Code As a company incorporated in Scotland with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange, Cairn is required to report against the UK Dear Shareholder Corporate Governance Code as published by the Financial Reporting Council and available on its website at www.
Cairn is Our collective responsibility as a Board committed to achieving compliance with the principles and provisions set out in the Code.
is to promote the long-term success of the Company, providing entrepreneurial The Board continually reviews the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and have amended or enhanced the Companys leadership within a framework of prudent governance framework to ensure the Company complies with the and effective controls.
I firmly believe Code otherwise than as detailed in this statement.
Set out below is a statement of how the Company applied the principles in sections A to E that high standards of corporate of the UK Corporate Governance Code for the year ended 31 December governance are central to delivering this 2012.
The Company has taken steps to adopt early some but not all of the new provisions in the version of the UK Corporate Governance success in a responsible manner that Code published in September 2012.
This statement therefore reports takes account of the interests of all compliance with the version of the Code published in 2010. our stakeholders.
The Cairn Board Cairns business is international in scope and carries political, I have been Chairman of the Company since July 2011 and in this commercial and technical risks.
Accordingly, particular attention is paid role one of my key responsibilities is to ensure the highest possible to the composition and balance of the Board to ensure that it has wide standards of corporate governance within the Company.
During my experience of the sector and regulatory environment in which Cairn tenure as Chief Executive, I was privileged to work with a number operates, and appropriate financial and risk management skills.
In each of chairmen who understood the critical role which governance Board appointment, whether executive or non-executive, objectivity and plays in contributing to the success of an organisation and helped integrity, as well as skills, experience, ability and diversity assist the Board to foster a culture where governance is embedded in all that we do.
in its key functions, and are pre-requisites for appointment.
This also This experience and these foundations benefited me greatly in applies to appointments to senior management positions below Board transitioning from the role of Chief Executive to Chairman and in level and to our succession planning.
ensuring that governance remains at the forefront of all we do.
The Board currently comprises me as Chairman, the Chief Executive, Last year, the Company fell short of these high standards by failing two executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
to consult and engage in advance with shareholders in respect of The directors biographies are on pages 50 and 51.
As part of Cairns certain termination payments.
We have worked very hard during the succession policy, over the past five years the Board has undergone last year to strengthen our governance and in this section I set out an extensive refreshment process evidenced by the appointment of what we have done and what we plan for 2013 and beyond.
We both four non-executive directors during this time.
The Board plans to appoint recognise and support the comply or explain approach of the UK up to two new non-executive directors during 2013.
It is also intended Corporate Governance Code.
We fully understand that this works that Todd Hunt will retire from the Board within the next 12 months, most effectively where there is an ongoing dialogue between the having served on the Board for more than nine years.
Company and its shareholders as well as others, including proxy voting agencies.
I would like to assure shareholders and other It is currently anticipated that one new director will be appointed on or stakeholders that we remain fully committed to our side of around the time of the Companys AGM in May and with another possible that dialogue.
Further details regarding the planned appointments are detailed on pages 56 and 62 under Performance Evaluation and in the Last year was a busy time for the Board the Company returned report of the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee.
US$3.5 billion to shareholders in the first quarter, then set about the task of building a well funded and balanced portfolio of assets.
The Company considers periodic refreshment of the Board to be positive This included two corporate acquisitions and further sales of as it brings new thinking to the Company as well as ensuring that the Boards our shareholding in Cairn India, as well as significant activity collective experiences equip it to meet its business needs as they evolve on new venture opportunities.
In support of the strategy, we have over time.
The Board is also mindful that an appropriate balance between strengthened our oversight of Board performance by changing the Directors who can bring a new perspective and those who provide continuity, structure of our board committees to include a specific governance is essential for a business like Cairns.
function and by undertaking an externally facilitated board evaluation during 2012, further details of which can be found later Diversity is a key element of the Cairn Board, with emphasis placed not in this statement.
only on gender but also nationality and experience.
The Board currently demonstrates balance across all these elements with 22% female representation on the Board one Executive Director and one NonExecutive Director and directors from the Netherlands, the USA and Canada, as well as the UK, all bringing their international experience to the Board.
The board members also have a diverse range of experience Sir Bill Gammell and expertise covering not only a wealth of experience of operating Chairman in the oil and gas industry but also extensive technical, financial, legal, commercial and governance expertise.
Further information on diversity within Cairn is included in the report of the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee on pages 61 and 62.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Corporate Governance Statement Continued Division of Responsibilities between Chairman Performance Evaluation and Chief Executive The Board has in the past conducted its performance evaluation process The Company has always had a clear division of responsibilities between internally and has fully described the process for doing so in the corporate the Chairman and Chief Executive.
At the time of my appointment as governance statement in previous annual reports.
In accordance with the Chairman, this was closely scrutinised by the Board and a clear division UK Corporate Governance Code provision that performance of the board of responsibilities between the new Chief Executive and me was set out should be externally facilitated at least every three years, the Board in writing and agreed by the Board.
decided to carry out an external review for the first time in 2012.
The Board was clear that this process should add value and increase As Chairman, I am responsible for the leadership and effective running its effectiveness overall.
of the Board, ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in the determination and development of the Groups strategy and acting The Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee took ownership as guardian and facilitator of the Boards decision making process as well of the external evaluation process, which is described below: as ensuring effective implementation of the Boards decisions.
I am also responsible for ensuring open communications with shareholders and h a long list of external evaluation facilitators were interviewed in particular, understanding their issues and concerns with regard to by the Company Secretariat and chair of the Committee: our governance.
h a paper was prepared summarising these interviews and recommending a short list of three facilitators and the Committee The Chief Executive is responsible for managing the Groups business and considered this paper in detail: proposing and developing the Groups strategy and overall commercial h the chair of the Committee met with the three shortlisted candidates objectives in consultation with the Board.
As leader of the Executive Team, following which Raymond Dinkin of Consilium Board Review was he is also responsible for implementing the decisions of the Board and its chosen as the preferred provider Consilium had no other connection Committees and ensuring successful and efficient achievement of the with the Company : Groups KPIs and objectives.
h Mr Dinkin was appointed by the Board in July 2012 and commenced a due diligence process on the Company and the Board: Together with the Chairman, the Chief Executive provides coherent h all directors were required to complete a detailed questionnaire leadership of the Company, including representing the Group to its prepared by Mr Dinkin following which he: stakeholders including shareholders, financial institutions, employees, held one on one meetings with all directors and several other senior governments, the media, the wider community and the general public.
staff members during Q3 2012: observed a board meeting and board committee meetings: and Senior Independent Director provided a final report including his recommendations to the Board Iain McLaren continues to be Cairns senior independent non-executive and facilitated a discussion with the Board on his report at the board director.
The main responsibilities of the senior independent non-executive meeting held in December 2012. director are as follows: h Mr Dinkin also held discussions and meetings with the chair of the Committee as well as the Chairman, Chief Executive, Managing h to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an Director & CFO and Company Secretary with regard to implementation intermediary with other Directors when necessary: of his recommendations.
h to be available to shareholders if they have concerns through which contact through the normal channels of chairman, chief executive or The final evaluation report was grouped into themes and provided valuable other Executive Directors has failed to resolve or for which such contact insights for the Board on its perceived challenges: board dynamics and is inappropriate: and climate: board leadership: board and organisational capability: board h to meet with the other Non-Executive Directors without the chairman composition: board processes: governance and board committees: and present at least annually in order to appraise the chairmans performance.
Re-election of Directors The report recognised that over the last year the Company has made In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the significant improvements to the effectiveness of the Board and that it Companys directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
is performing well on most of the important measures.
In order to build As such, each of the directors will seek re-election at the AGM to be held on this, the report also contained a summary of recommendations for on 16 May 2013.
Full biographical details of the directors can be found on improving board effectiveness.
These recommendations have been pages 50 and 51. carefully considered by the Board and translated into an action plan for 2013.
The Chairman has overall responsibility for implementation of this plan.
The main agreed actions are in relation to the following: h Board composition: the main priority should be to appoint up to two new non-executive directors and in particular, one who should bring a combination of extensive experience of UK industrial company leadership and governance, merger and acquisition activity and an intimate understanding of UK capital markets, as well as sector technical experience.
Following these appointment s, the Board will revisit its structure and governance processes, including the composition of its board committees, and make any changes it considers necessary to improve governance and board effectiveness further.
h Clearer role of the Chairman: it was recommended that the role of the Chairman should have increased focus on Board leadership, governance and effectiveness.
It was also decided that the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee should be split and that the Chairman should assume the role of chair of the Nomination Committee.
56 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 h Non-Executive Director only meetings: it was recommended that the Induction and Development Chairman should hold more regular meetings with the non-executives New directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the without the executives present.
This involves meetings with other Board members in particular the Chairman, senior management and the Companys principal advisers.
Following the external performance evaluation process conducted in 2012, In addition, a new Director is provided with an induction pack which contains the Board and the Board committees are satisfied that they are operating background materials and general information on the Company, the Companys effectively and that each Director has performed well in respect of their key policies and procedures, financial information, an operational review individual roles on the Board.
As explained above, some improvements and a briefing on directors legal and regulatory responsibilities.
have been identified and have already been or will be addressed during 2013.
Following the results of the individual performance evaluations, The Company provides on an ongoing basis.
the necessary resources the Board believes that all of the Directors performance all of whom for developing and updating its Directors knowledge and capabilities.
are proposed for re-election at the AGM continues to be effective and In particular, the Company is committed to the provision of continuing that they each demonstrate commitment to the role.
professional development training to its directors and in 2012 continued with its practice of providing a Directors Education Programme consisting The executive directors also have their performance individually reviewed of a number of seminars for Board members, which are presented by by the remuneration committee against KPIs and objectives which are the Companys external advisers guest speakers members of senior set annually.
The bonuses payable to the Executive Directors under the management, on subjects appropriate to the Companys business, Companys cash bonus scheme described further in the Directors including changes to legislation, regulation and market practice.
Remuneration Report on page 80 are linked directly to the results of these reviews.
These seminars are held either prior to or after Board meetings and are generally attended by all directors present at such meetings the Company Independence of Non-Executive Directors keeps a record of attendance.
This process was reviewed during 2012 The Board evaluation and review process also covered the independence and the Board approved the proposed Directors Education Programme of each of the Non-Executive Directors, taking into account their integrity, for 2013 at its meeting in December 2012.
Any director may request that objectivity and contribution to the Board and its committees.
The Cairn a particular subject is covered in a seminar.
In addition, all media articles Board is of the view that the following behaviours are essential for relating to the Company and all brokers and analysts reports on the a director to be considered independent: Company are distributed to all directors.
h provides an objective, robust and consistent challenge to the Information and Support assumptions, beliefs and views of senior management and the The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to enable it to other directors: perform its duties.
The Company Secretary ensures the presentation of high h questions intelligently, debates constructively and challenges rigorously quality information to the Board and its committees and that all papers and and dispassionately: information are delivered in a timely fashion.
The Company Secretary and h acts at all times in the best interests of the organisation and its Deputy Company Secretary are responsible for advising the Board, through shareholders: the Chairman, on all corporate governance matters.
In addition, each h has a detailed and extensive knowledge of the Groups business, Director has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary industry and the market as a whole which provides a solid background and Deputy Company Secretary.
There is also a procedure agreed by the in which the non-executive directors can consider the Groups strategy Board for Directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent objectively and help the executive directors develop proposals on professional advice if necessary, at the Companys expense.
strategy: and h has no close ties or material relationships with the Company, either Directors and Officers Liability Insurance directly or indirectly.
The Company has directors and officers liability insurance in place.
Having reviewed the independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors Conflicts of Interest excluding the Chairman against these criteria and the characteristics of The Board has in place a procedure for the consideration and authorisation independence set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board of conflicts or possible conflicts with the Companys interests.
All Directors concluded that all of the Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman are aware of the requirement to submit details to the Company Secretary demonstrated each of the required competencies to a high level and are, or Deputy Company Secretary of any current situations appointments therefore, each considered independent.
or otherwise which may give rise to a conflict, or potential conflict, of interest.
Notifications have been received from all of the current Directors The Company acknowledges that, following his re-election at the 2012 and there are no conflict matters which require to be authorised.
The AGM, Todd Hunt has served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest Company has taken account of the UK Corporate Governance Codes on a regular basis.
criteria of independence, as well as its own test, and has concluded that Todd Hunt continues to remain independent.
In making its decision, the Matters Reserved to the Board Board took account of Mr Hunts contribution to Board and committee and Delegation of Authority discussions, in which he demonstrates independent judgement and robust The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it scrutiny, the results of the Board evaluation process, which did not identify for decision.
These reserved matters include determination of the overall any concern relating to his independent behaviour, and the fact that he strategy of the Group and approval of the annual report and accounts, the has served on the Board for more than 9 years following his re-election Groups annual budget and amendments to that budget over a particular at the 2012 AGM.
The Board is satisfied that no long-standing personal amount, borrowing and security, acquisitions and disposals, capital or professional relationships exist between Todd Hunt and any of the expenditure over a specified amount, amendments to the organisational Executive Directors.
Todd Hunts length of tenure is also seen by the structure of the Group and Board, approval of significant changes to Board to have provided an element of continuity and stability to the Board accounting policies and approval of management incentive schemes during a period when it has otherwise undergone extensive change and and Group policy on pensions.
It is, however, intended that Mr Hunt will retire from the Board within the next 12 months following the proposed new appointment s to be made to the board in 2013.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Corporate Governance Statement Continued By way of example, some of the matters which the Board considered and Board Meetings approved during 2012 were: During 2012, six scheduled meetings of the Board were held, with each taking place over two consecutive days.
The majority of the Board meetings h the return of $3.5bn to shareholders following completion of the sale were held at the Companys registered office in Edinburgh with one meeting of a 40% shareholding in Cairn India Limited: held at the Companys office in London.
Details of attendance at each of h subsequent on-market sales of a further aggregate 11.5% of the those meetings, and at meetings of Board committees, are set out below.
shareholding in Cairn India Limited: h the acquisitions of Agora Oil & Gas AS and Nautical Petroleum plc: Given the level of portfolio building undertaken by the Company during the h the Groups 5 year business plan and annual budget: year, a significant number of other meetings took place to deal with specific h the farm-down of a 30.625% interest in the Pitu block in Greenland matters that required to be considered at short notice.
When a specific to Statoil ASA: and matter requires consideration at short notice, there is a procedure that h the farm-in to two frontier exploration blocks in Morocco.
sets out when those matters must be considered at a short notice Board meeting and when they may be dealt with by a committee of the Board.
During the second half of 2012, the Executive Team has also reviewed the Companys organisational structure in the context of its expanded portfolio Any director who is physically unable to attend Board and committee of assets.
Following this review, a new organisational structure was put in meetings is given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in place in January 2013.
This structure has consolidated the Groups portfolio advance of the meeting by telephone or in writing.
Video and telephone of assets into three geographical regions North West Europe: Atlantic conferencing facilities are also used when directors are not able to attend Margin: and Mediterranean and North Africa each with its own Regional meetings in person.
Director reporting into the Chief Operating Officer, who in turn reports directly to the Chief Executive.
Within each of the regions, the main change The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting, which regularly has been to strengthen the structure by changing line responsibility for includes presentations from senior operational management, is set by specific key functions to report directly to the various assets.
The role the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company of the Exploration Director was also expanded to include responsibility Secretary.
Formal minutes of all Board and committee meetings are for new ventures activities, reporting to the Deputy Chief Executive.
circulated to all Directors prior to the next Board meeting and are considered for approval at that Board meeting.
In addition, the members of the Board The Management Team and the Corporate Team continue to support are in frequent contact between meetings to progress the Groups business.
the Board and the executive directors in the day to day operational The Non-Executive Directors also meet informally, without any executives management of the Company.
present, to discuss matters in respect of the business.
This practice is being formalised in 2013 to ensure that Non-Executive Directors have sufficient The membership of the Management Team has been expanded in the opportunity to regularly meet without the Executive Directors.
context of the new organisational structure and is now comprised of nine members of the senior management team representing all areas and Directors Attendance at Board and functions of the business and is chaired by the Chief Operating Officer.
Board Committee Meetings The role of the Management Team continues to be to lead the delivery The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at of the Companys strategic objectives, including generating and updating scheduled Board and Board committee meetings during 2012: the business plan to be recommended to the Board, ensuring that all work Corporate programmes are executed, managed and reported and being responsible Governance for the risk management process for all assets, functions and new venture and proposals.
The Management Team meets formally on a regular basis Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee with a fixed schedule of dates which are normally close to the timing of Board meetings.
Meetings held during 2012 65 6 4 The Corporate Team comprises four members of the senior management team and is responsible for enabling and maintaining the Companys Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings attended attended attended attended access to the capital markets in line with the Companys strategic objectives and is charged with promoting and protecting the Companys Executive Directors reputation as a well run business.
In 2012 and 2013 to date, the Corporate Simon Thomson Team has focused on the following key areas: annual and CR reporting: 3 3 Chief Executive 6 n a n a n a governance reputation: BIS proposals on executive pay: access to capital: Dr Mike Watts corporate advisers: and business and CR management systems.
The Deputy Chief Executive 6 n a n a n a Corporate Team meets regularly to discuss specific projects.
Jann Brown Managing Director and With effect from 2013, the Management Team and Corporate Team will 4 5 Chief Financial Officer 6n a n a 2 undertake joint quarterly performance reviews to review their progress and also to plan ahead on key events, projects, risks and progress Non-Executive Directors against milestones.
Sir Bill Gammell Chairman 6n a n a 4 The HSE Leadership Team constituted in October 2011, which is chaired Iain McLaren 5553 by the Managing Director & CFO and comprises key managers across the Todd Hunt 6n a 6 3 business, has also continued its work in 2012 with the aim of providing Dr James Buckee 646 n a leadership on health, safety and environmental issues and driving 6 Alexander Berger initiatives to maintain standards and improve HSE performance across 6 3 n a 4 the Group.
7 Jackie Sheppard 62 64 58 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes: Jackie Sheppard to devote additional time to her duties as chair n a not applicable where a director is not a member of the committee.
of the Remuneration Committee and Corporate Governance and 1 During 2012, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings Nomination Committee.
of the audit committee, remuneration committee and corporate governance and nomination committee by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
The Audit Committee met five times in 2012.
At the request of the Audit 2 Where a director was unable to attend meetings of the Board or of Board committees, they reviewed the relevant papers for the meetings and provided their comments to Committee, the Chief Financial Officer and senior members of the Finance the Board or the Board committees in advance of such meetings.
Department attended each of these meetings.
In addition, all but one 3 Simon Thomson was not a member of the corporate governance and nomination of these meetings were attended by the external auditors and by the committee or the remuneration committee in 2012 but attended these meetings internal auditors.
4 Jann Brown is not a member of the audit committee but attends its meetings The external auditors receive copies of all relevant audit committee by invitation.
5 Jann Brown was appointed a member of the corporate governance and nomination papers including papers to be considered at meetings when they are committee on 6 March 2012.
The number of meetings she attended is stated from not in attendance and minutes of all committee meetings.
the chairman of the committee regularly meets with the external audit 6 Alexander Berger was appointed a member of the audit committee on 12 March 2012. partner to discuss matters relevant to the Company.
The number of meetings he attended is stated from that date.
7 Jackie Sheppard retired as a member of the audit committee on 12 March 2012.
The role of the committee includes: The number of meetings she attended is stated up to and including that date.
h monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and Board Committees formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained and a Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee, each of which in them: has formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
It should be noted h reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and disclosures that since the year end 31 December 2012, the Board has decided to split in financial reports: the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee into two separate h reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and internal control committees the Nomination Committee and the Governance Committee.
and risk management systems: This change took effect in March 2013 and is further explained in the report h monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal of the Corporate Governance and Nomination committee on page 61. audit function: h overseeing the Companys relationship with the external auditors, The terms of reference for each of the board committees satisfy the including making recommendations to the Board as to the appointment requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and are reviewed or reappointment of the external auditors, reviewing their terms of internally on an ongoing basis by the Board.
Copies of the terms of engagement, and monitoring the external auditors independence, reference are available on the Companys website.
objectivity and effectiveness: and h reviewing the Companys whistleblowing procedures and ensuring The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable them that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
The Company Secretary investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting acts as secretary to all board committees with the exception of the audit and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
committee, where the Deputy Company Secretary undertakes this role.
The minutes of all committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
The first two meetings of the Audit Committee in 2012 were in respect of the 2011 year-end process.
The next two meetings were in respect of Set out below are reports from the Audit Committee, Remuneration the half-year 2012 and planning for the 2012 year-end process with one Committee and Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee subsequent additional meeting held to discuss the tender process for both although it has subsequently been split, the Corporate Governance and external and internal audit described further on page 60.
Since the year Nomination Committee operated on a combined basis throughout 2012 end, the Audit Committee has met twice in January and March 2013 and therefore its report is presented on this basis.
in respect of the 2012 year-end accounts.
Audit Committee Report 2012 Year-End and Significant Accounting Issues The Audit Committee currently comprises three Non-Executive Directors, At the first of the meetings in respect of the 2012 year-end, issues which all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
The Board may impact on the financial statements are raised by both the senior is satisfied that all members of the committee have recent and relevant management and the external auditors.
The auditors also present their financial experience.
Audit committee guidance is sought on accounting policies and assumptions to be adopted in preparing the financial statements.
The members of the committee during the year were as follows: After discussing and challenging the issues raised, the audit committee recommends the policies to be adopted or directs senior management h Iain McLaren chairman : to produce further information if deemed necessary.
h Dr James Buckee: h Jackie Sheppard stepped down At the second meeting in respect of the year-end process, the external as a member of the committee on auditors report their audit results to the audit committee, including 12 March 2012 : and a summary of any significant accounting and auditing issues, internal h Alexander Berger appointed control findings and a summary of audit differences identified.
The Audit a member of the committee on Committee would also consider any disagreements in accounting 12 March 2012. treatment between management and the auditors, should any arise.
With effect from close of business of the Audit Committee meeting held on 12 March 2012, Jackie Sheppard stood down as a member of the Audit Committee and was replaced by Alexander Berger.
This change allowed Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Corporate Governance Statement Continued A full breakdown of remuneration paid to auditors in respect of both audit Board Committees continued and non-audit work is provided in Appendix 4 of the Notes to the Financial Statements on page 129.
Audit Committee Report continued The main areas of judgement which the Audit Committee considered Internal Audit in relation to the 2012 year-end accounts were: KPMG LLP has been appointed to supervise and co-ordinate the Companys internal audit function.
At the beginning of each year, an internal audit plan h the accounting for the acquisitions during the year, including the fair is developed by the internal auditor, in consultation with senior management, values assigned to the assets acquired and the resulting deferred tax based on a review of the outcome of the previous years internal audits, liabilities recognised: the outcome of the annual assessment of effectiveness of internal control, h the recording of goodwill arising on the acquisitions which under IFRS the records of historical audits of fundamental business processes and the is a result primarily of the deferred tax provided rather than a reflection significant risks in the Group Risk Matrix and identified mitigation measures.
of the underlying economics of the transaction: and The internal auditor also participates in meetings of the Group Risk h the testing of goodwill for impairment at the year-end including the Management Committee to maintain an understanding of the business review of the calculation and the underlying assumptions used to activities and associated risks and to update the committee on the internal estimate values for intangible exploration appraisal assets which audit work plan.
The Audit Committee also receives updates on the internal support the current carrying value.
audit work plan on an ongoing basis.
The external auditors do not place any reliance on the work undertaken by the Companys internal audit function The Audit Committee was satisfied that management had made due to the nature of the scope and the timing of their work.
The external appropriate estimates and judgements in these areas and this view auditors do, however, attend all committee meetings where internal audit was supported by the auditors.
External Audit Tender Internal Audit Tender The latest edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in The Audit Committee also agreed during 2012 to undertake a tender September 2012 states that FTSE 350 companies should put the external process for the Companys internal audit services.
This process did audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
The Company decided not run in parallel with the tender for external audit services given the to comply with this provision early and has undertaken an external audit commonality of certain firms invited to tender.
Instead the process and re-tendering process during 2012. timetable was managed in such a way as to minimise disruption to the Group and avoid any potential conflicts of interest in connection with The Company last undertook a tender for external audit services in 2003 the re-tender for both external and internal audit services.
following which Ernst & Young LLP were re-appointed as the Companys auditors.
Since then, two senior audit partners have worked with the An invitation to tender for the provision of internal audit services was sent Company for a period of five years each.
Given the new governance to four firms in January 2013 and following clarification meetings, three requirement and the fact that the current senior audit partner was due firms were then invited to submit a formal proposal document and present for rotation in 2013, the Audit Committee agreed that it would be timely to senior management and the chair of the Audit Committee in March to undertake an external audit re-tender prior to the 2013 statutory audit.
Following this process it was agreed that Ernst & Young LLP be The timing was also considered by the committee to mitigate the risk of appointed as the Companys internal auditor.
The provision of internal loss of legacy knowledge in relation to Cairn India Limited as this is no audit services by Ernst & Young LLP will commence in July 2013. longer a major subsidiary of the Group.
Assessment of External Audit Process Five firms were invited to tender their written credentials for the position The Company monitors its external auditors performance on an ongoing of external auditor, following which four firms were shortlisted.
The basis, and undertakes an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the shortlisted firms selected were invited to submit a formal proposal annual audit process.
This involves completion of a comprehensive document and present to the Audit Committee and Chief Financial Officer questionnaire by each member of the Audit Committee, the Chief Financial in early 2013.
Following this process and at the recommendation of the Officer and other senior members of the finance department.
The results Audit Committee, the Board agreed to appoint  of this assessment are discussed at the next committee meeting including LLP as its external auditor.
A resolution will therefore be put to shareholders the actions, if any, which require to be taken following the assessment.
at the AGM on 16 May 2013 to re-appoint  LLP In addition to this, the Ernst & Young LLP senior audit partner working with as the Companys auditor.
Cairn is subject to rotation.
The current audit partner has worked with the Company on the year-end process for the last five years 2008 to 2012.
As Non-Audit Services stated above, the Company has undertaken an external audit tender process The Audit Committee has established a policy in relation to the supply during 2012 pursuant to which  LLP have been of non-audit services by the external auditors and other third parties.
appointed as the Companys auditors.
In view of this new appointment, The Company will engage an external adviser to provide non-audit the Company will carefully monitor the performance of the new auditors services on the basis of the skills and experience required for the work, on an ongoing basis.
where benefit will be derived as a result of the third partys knowledge of the Company and cost.
These advisers may include the Companys Whistleblowing and Related Policies external auditors for a restricted list of non-audit services, although, before The Company updated its Whistleblowing Policy during 2012 and the new the engagement commences, the Company must be satisfied that the policy was subsequently rolled out across the organisation and reviewed auditors objectivity and independence would not be compromised in by the Audit Committee.
The committee is satisfied that arrangements any way as a result of being instructed to carry out those services.
If the are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible cumulative fees to be paid to an external adviser for the provision of improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for non-audit services are below a certain level, the adviser may be engaged appropriate follow-up action.
in accordance with the Companys financial delegations of authority after a quotation has been received.
If the fees payable are expected to exceed The Company also has in place a comprehensive Anti Bribery and Corruption that level on a cumulative basis, the engagement must be approved Management System and Code of Business Ethics and training has been by the audit committee in advance after following a tender process.
provided to all staff in relation to these.
As the Company enters new The audit committee must also be satisfied that the engagement is the countries, further monitoring is undertaken and training is kept updated.
most effective and efficient means of procuring such non-audit services.
60 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3.
Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee Report Board Committees continued In order to ensure a continuing focus on good governance within the Company, it was agreed at the Board meeting held on 6 March 2012 that 2.
Remuneration Committee Report the remit of the nomination committee should be expanded to include a The Remuneration Committee currently comprises four non-executive corporate governance function, thereby forming a Corporate Governance directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
The membership and terms of reference of the committee were also refreshed at that time.
The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year were as follows: The members of the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee during the year were as follows: h Jackie Sheppard chair with effect from 5 March 2012: member prior to that : h Jackie Sheppard appointed chair with effect from 6 March 2012 : h Dr James Buckee stepped down as h Iain McLaren stepped down as chair on 6 March 2012 but remained chair on 5 March 2012 but remains a member of the committee : a member of the committee h Todd Hunt: h Todd Hunt: and h Alexander Berger: h Iain McLaren.
h Sir Bill Gammell: h Jann Brown joined the committee on 6 March 2012 : and h Simon Thomson stepped down as a member of the committee After a three year term as chairman of the Remuneration Committee, on 6 March 2012 but remained an invitee.
Dr James Buckee stood down from this position and was replaced by Jackie Sheppard with effect from 5 March 2012.
Dr Buckee remains The Corporate Governance and Nomination committee met four times a member of the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman and three of the Companys independent Non-Executive Directors are members of the Committee.
In addition, The Remuneration Committee met six times during 2012.
The Chairman to ensure continuing executive input on corporate governance and of the Company is not a member of the committee but attends its meetings nomination matters, the Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer by invitation.
The Chief Executive, when requested by the committee, was appointed a member of the committee on 6 March 2012.
The Chief attends its meetings for specific agenda items.
In addition, he is consulted Executive is no longer a member of the committee but is invited to by the committee on its proposals.
Certain other of the Executive Directors attend all of its meetings.
attended meetings of the committee as observers on being invited to do so by the committee.
The Companys remuneration advisers, Hewitt The expanded role of the Corporate Governance and Nomination New Bridge Street, also attended some of the committees meetings.
Committee includes: None of the members of the committee, nor the Chief Executive nor the Chairman, participated in any meetings or discussions relating to their h considering the composition, balance and skills of the Board and making own remuneration.
recommendations to the Board on these matters, on the appointment of new directors and on the reappointment and orderly succession of The role of the committee includes: existing directors: h facilitating an annual performance evaluation to ensure that all members h determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for of the Board are effectively discharging and devoting sufficient time all the Executive Directors, the Chairman, and the Companys Persons to their duties and responsibilities: Discharging Managerial Responsibilities: h reviewing and approving changes to the Boards corporate governance h within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual practices and policies: remuneration package for each Executive Director: h monitoring the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate h determining the level of awards made under the Companys share Governance Code and with all applicable legal, regulatory and listing option plans and long-term incentive plans and the performance requirements: and conditions which are to apply: h reviewing developments in corporate governance generally and advising h determining bonuses payable under the Companys annual cash the Board periodically with respect to significant developments in the bonus scheme: law and practice of corporate governance.
h determining the vesting of awards under the Companys long-term incentive plans and exercise of share options: and Changes to Committee Since Year End h determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements Following the Board evaluation, it was agreed at the March 2013 Board and termination payments for executive directors.
meeting that the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee should be split into two separate committees the Nomination Committee In addition to the meetings held during 2012, the Remuneration and the Governance Committee.
Sir Bill Gammell will chair the Nomination Committee held a detailed executive pay workshop in October 2012 to Committee and Jackie Sheppard will chair the Governance Committee.
review executive pay and also the structure of its executive pay policies The members of the Nomination Committee are now Sir Bill Gammell in light of the Governments proposed new regulations in relation to chair, Iain McLaren, Todd Hunt, Alexander Berger and Simon Thomson.
The Company has taken steps to adopt The members of the Governance Committee are Jackie Sheppard chair, certain of the new proposals early, albeit legislation incorporating the Todd Hunt, Alexander Berger, Sir Bill Gammell and Jann Brown.
new reporting requirements has not yet been finalised.
This detailed review by the committee has also fully considered the concerns expressed Diversity by shareholders last year in relation to certain termination payments.
The committee also takes into account the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
Cairn currently has two exceptionally well Full details of the Companys policies on remuneration, service contracts qualified women on its Board, one executive Jann Brown, Managing and compensation payments are given in the Directors Remuneration Director & CFO and one non-executive Jackie Sheppard.
The Board Report on pages 66 to 83. is also diverse in terms of the range of the international experience and nationality of its members.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Corporate Governance Statement Continued these meetings.
At the Board meeting immediately following these Board Committees continued meetings, a detailed report is given to all directors who were not in attendance at those meetings.
In addition, the Company maintains an 3.
Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee Report external relations database which details all meetings attended by the continued directors with third party stakeholders.
All analysts and brokers reports Currently, women make up 22% of our Board, 33% of our management and on the Company are also distributed to all directors.
Cairn responds 49% of our total workforce, all of which represent relatively high levels of promptly to correspondence from shareholders and its website contains female representation for a Company operating in the oil and gas industry.
a wide range of information on the Company, included a dedicated investor relations section.
Cairn aspires to diversify further its Board as part of its succession planning policy, although in seeking to achieve this aspiration we will not A list of the Companys major shareholders can be found in the Directors appoint a woman to the Board unless she is the best candidate for the Report on page 53. role.
When engaged in future searches for non-executive directors, the Company will, however, require search consultants to include female The senior independent non-executive director is available to shareholders candidates on the long and short lists.
Beneath board level, we are also if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of the seeking to develop and increase the number of women in senior Chairman, Chief Executive or Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer management roles across the Group through a number of measures, has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
including our succession planning, training and development and flexible working policies, which support diversity at Cairn.
The pipeline of younger Each of the non-executive directors is available to attend meetings with talent within the Group is also diverse and bodes well for the future.
major shareholders without the executive directors present, if requested by such major shareholders.
As part of the Board evaluation process undertaken in 2012 described above on page 56 the Committee has considered the balance of skills, In April 2012, the chair of the Remuneration Committee and the Company experience, independence and knowledge of the Company on the Board, Secretary met with a number of the Companys major shareholders and its diversity including gender, how the Board works together as a unit, certain proxy voting agencies to discuss specific concerns raised on and other factors relevant to the Boards effectiveness.
The Chairman did not participate in these meetings as he had a personal interest in the matters discussed.
These As a result of this process, the Board has decided to appoint up to meetings allowed major shareholders to express their views on the two new Non-Executive Directors in 2013 and has instructed external matters discussed in advance of the Companys AGM in May 2012 and recruitment consultants Ridgeway Partners to assist with this.
for the Company to consider and respond to the issues raised.
The chair Ridgeway Partners have no other connection with the Company.
of the Remuneration Committee is available to meet with shareholders as required or if requested.
Ridgeway Partners were briefed regarding the proposed new appointment s in January and prepared a job specification for each The Company recognises that the success of the comply or explain of the two positions.
Ridgeway Partners then prepared a longlist and approach under the UK Corporate Governance Code depends on an ongoing subsequently a shortlist for the first position during February and and open dialogue with shareholders and is committed to communicating interviews for this have been scheduled.
In the event that the Board with shareholders, as well as proxy voting agencies, on any matter which decides to appoint a second new non-executive director, the Company they wish to discuss in relation to the Companys governance.
intends to follow a similar recruitment process.
Annual General Meeting Further details will be provided in the Companys Corporate Governance The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional Statement next year regarding the new Board appointment s. investors and welcomes their participation.
It is policy for all of the Companys directors to attend the AGM if at all possible.
Whilst this Succession Planning may not always be possible for business or personal reasons, in normal The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the structure, size and circumstances the chair of each of the Board committees will be available composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required of to attend the AGM and prepared to answer questions.
the Board and makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
The Board has satisfied itself that the committee has in place appropriate plans It is policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the Company for orderly succession to the Board and senior management positions as and to give them the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the well as procedures to ensure an appropriate balance of skills within the Companys activities and prospects.
Details of resolutions to be proposed Company and on the Board and its committees.
at the AGM on 16 May 2013 can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which is contained in the shareholder Circular posted with this The Board and Nomination Committee are satisfied that the individuals report.
Further explanation of each of the resolutions can also be found currently fulfilling key senior management positions in the organisation in the Circular.
have the requisite depth and breadth of skills, knowledge and experience.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, Relations with Shareholders will be counted before the AGM and the results will be made available at Communications with shareholders are given high priority by the Board.
the meeting after the shareholders have voted on each resolution on a poll.
Cairn sends both its annual report and accounts and half-yearly report Both the Form of Proxy and poll card for the AGM include a vote withheld to all shareholders.
During 2012, the Company has also implemented the option in respect of each resolution, to enable shareholders to abstain on provisions of the Companies Act 2006 regarding electronic communication any particular resolution.
It is explained on the Form of Proxy that a vote with its shareholders, in order to give shareholders more choice and withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of flexibility in how they receive information from the Company.
the proportion of the votes for or against a resolution.
In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop an understanding The information required to be disclosed by DTR 7.2.
R in relation to of the views of major shareholders, there is regular dialogue with institutional securities and voting rights thereon is set out in the Directors Report shareholders, including meetings after the announcement of the year-end on pages 52 and 53. and half-yearly results.
The Chairman is available to attend a number of 62 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Responsibility Statement Going Concern The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the Group The directors have considered the factors relevant to support a statement and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable laws on going concern.
They have a reasonable expectation that the Group has and regulations.
adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to use the going concern Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for basis in preparing the financial statements.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements and have elected to prepare the Company Internal Control financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom law and those The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Company has in place an Integrated Internal Control & Assurance Framework the framework, which plays Under Company Law the directors must not approve the Group and a critical role in managing the risks towards the achievement of corporate Company financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present vision, strategy and objectives, and is also central to safeguarding fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the shareholders interests and Company assets.
This system of internal Group and Company for that period.
In preparing those financial control is in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and statements, the directors are required to: is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute h select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: The process has been in place in respect of the Group for the 2012 h present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that accounting period and up to the date of approval of the report and provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: accounts.
The Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the h provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific system of internal controls during 2012 and will ensure that such reviews requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the are performed in 2013.
In so doing, the Board has taken into account the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the assurance provided by the Chief Executive in respect of the effectiveness Groups financial position and financial performance: of the system of internal control within the Company.
The Board is h state that the Group and Company has complied with IFRSs, subject accordingly satisfied that effective controls are in place and that risks to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial have been mitigated to an acceptable level.
statements: and h make judgements and estimates that are reasonable.
The Company is subject to a variety of risks which derive from the nature of the oil and gas exploration and production business and relate to the The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that countries in which it conducts its activities.
The directors believe that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and Companys transactions Cairn derives its competitive edge by focusing activities in areas where and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position they believe they have a technical and commercial advantage and the of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the Group experience gained over many years enables the Company to manage financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 these risks effectively and appropriately.
of the IAS Regulation and the Companys financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the Operations in any country are only possible when values are shared, and assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps the directors believe that the values of integrity, social and environmental for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
responsibility, teamwork and nurturing of individuals, creativity, risk management and alliances with key partners are ingredients that are Directors Statement Pursuant central to the Companys success.
Recognition of the value of working to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules as a partnership with host governments, both nationally and regionally, Each of the directors, whose names are listed in the Board of Directors has also been a critical ingredient in this approach and success.
section on pages 50 and 51 confirms to the best of his knowledge that: Following completion of the sale of 40% of the Companys shareholding h the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, in Cairn India Limited to Vedanta Resources plc in December 2011, activities financial position and profit or loss of the Group and Company: and in 2012 have included the return of $3.5bn of cash to shareholders and h the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and consequent reduction in our equity base, the sale of a further 11.5% of performance of the business and the position of the Group and the Cairn India shares and a number of transactions in order to meet Company, together with a description of the principal risks and its strategic objective of building a balanced portfolio of development uncertainties that it faces.
During 2012 the Company has had a minority shareholding in Cairn India and as a consequence no longer has any direct Information pursuant to the Takeovers Directive influence on its strategy or approach to governance other than through The Company has provided the additional information required by DTR normal shareholder rights.
The corporate acquisitions undertaken in 2012 7.2.
7 directors interests in shares: appointment and replacement of have required the integration of staff and processes into the Companys directors: powers of the directors: restrictions on voting rights and rights business management system.
regarding control of the Company in the Directors Report.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Corporate Governance Statement Continued A business plan with a five year outlook and annual work programmes and Internal Control continued budgets are prepared annually to meet the Group strategy, starting at asset Particular attention has been placed by Group management during 2012 level before being consolidated at Regional and Group levels.
This sets out on ensuring that a robust system of internal control has been maintained detailed objectives and key performance indicators for each asset and during the year in relation to the key risks in the Groups business activities.
supporting functional departments and is consolidated into the Groups Enhancements have been made during 2012 to the following key business annual business plan.
After an iterative process, the business plan and processes and procedures: budget are presented to the Executive Team and the Board for approval.
The asset management teams then have the required authority to h Documented finance control procedures have been refreshed.
implement the business plan and to deliver the agreed work programmes h The Group Business Risk Management System GBRMS has been within the approved budget and delegations of authority and in accordance updated see point 3 below.
with the internal control framework.
h The lessons learned from the 2011 Greenland Drilling Project have been assessed and incorporated into planning for future drilling projects.
Risk Management h Improvements to the Budget to Pay B2P processes have been The Group Risk Management Committee GRMC, established by implemented.
the Board in 1999, continues to be responsible for the development h The Drilling Management System has been updated and aligned with of risk management strategy and processes within the Company and the Project Delivery Process.
for overseeing the implementation of the requirements of this strategy.
h The Group CR Management System and several supporting procedures It does this by ensuring that the framework for the identification, have been updated.
assessment, mitigation and reporting on all areas of risk is fit for purpose h Investment guidelines and new business screening processes have and that appropriate assurance arrangements are in place in relation to been put in place and implemented.
these risks to bring them within the Risk Appetite agreed by the Board.
The following describes the key elements of the framework and the The Group Business Risk Management System GBRMS defines the processes used by the Board during 2012 to review the effectiveness processes through which Cairn seeks to systematically identify, analyse, of the system.
It also describes the approach to be taken in 2013. assess, treat and monitor the business risks faced by the Group.
The GBRMS also identifies the risk management organisational structure 1.
Strategic Direction through which business risks are managed and regularly reviewed at The Group business model is that the strategy and business plan are operating, asset, country and group levels.
proposed by the Executive Directors and approved by the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible for managing the Groups business and proposing During 2012 the GRMC was chaired by Simon Thomson, the Chief and developing the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives Executive.
The GRMC comprises executive directors and senior functional in consultation with the Board.
As leader of the Executive Team, he is management.
The non-executive Chairman of the Audit Committee is also responsible for implementing the decisions of the Board and its a member of the GRMC and the Internal Auditor also attends meetings, committees and ensuring successful and efficient achievement of the in order to ensure internal audits integration with the risk management Groups objectives.
Regular joint Management and Corporate Team risk meetings were also held to manage the assessment and treatment of business risks 2.
Operating Management that may affect the Companys ability to deliver its strategy.
The Group operates several business units in different countries and with various partners on both an operated and non-operated basis.
Supporting The GRMC relies on the identification of business risks, together with the strategy is a matrix organisation where the assets are the principal the identified mitigating measures and responsibilities, which are recorded focus tasked with delivering objectives for their particular asset with in asset, country and departmental risk registers and then consolidated functional departments providing support to the assets in delivering into the Group risk register, which is regularly reviewed by the joint their objectives.
Management and Corporate Teams and the GRMC to ensure that the business understands the key risks it faces and that there is an embedded The Executive Team, Which Comprises The Three Executive Directors, risk management approach in place across the Group.
has the primary role of devising strategy including new ventures, sanctioning the business plan and work programmes and budget, and Enhancements to our approach to risk management during 2012 included: overall responsibility for investor relations, corporate governance matters and implementing the communications strategy.
Reporting to the Executive h The Board updated its Risk Appetite Statement in July.
Team are two teams: the Management Team who are primarily responsible h The risk management approach and reporting of risks to the GRMC for day to day management of the delivery of the approved business plan were updated on the basis of findings from a gap analysis against the and work programmes: and the Corporate Team who are responsible for requirements of the risk standard ISO:31000. maintaining market reporting and communications and ensuring corporate h Extensive use of bow ties to define risk interdependencies, causes governance processes are effectively implemented.
Further information on and consequences.
the Management Team and the Corporate Team can be found earlier in this h A more rigorous approach to ascribing value to risks based on the statement on page 58.
The directors have also appointed Group Functional outcome of internal quarterly valuation reports QVRs.
Department Heads whose roles include providing expert input and challenge to the work programmes, budgets and business plans, and The GRMC reports on the Groups risk profile to both the Audit Committee supplying the relevant director with full and accurate information and to and the Board.
Additionally, the Audit Committee and Board receive internal make statements on the adequacy of internal control.
reviews of the effectiveness of internal controls relative to the key risks.
The conclusion of the Board following these reviews during 2012 is that the internal controls in respect of key risks are effective.
64 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 4.
Assurance Compliance with the UK The framework adopted by the Board provides for the standard three levels of Corporate Governance Code assurance against the risks facing the Group: first of all at the operational level: Throughout 2012 the Company complied with the provisions of the UK secondly through overview by Group functional management and the GRMC: Corporate Governance Code published in 2010, except in the following area: and thirdly through internal, external or joint venture audits.
Provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code Company position Explanation The integrated internal control and assurance framework document B.
1.1 the board Following his The Board is firmly includes a description of the Companys business and assurance models, should state its re-election by of the view that organisation and committee structure and defines responsibilities.
The reasons if it shareholders at the Todd Hunt remains framework also defines the key policies procedures which govern the determines that a Companys AGM in independent and way in which Cairn conducts its business and are therefore a core part director is independent 2012, Todd Hunt has further detailed of its system of internal control.
The framework document was updated notwithstanding served on the Board explanation of the in early 2013 for the organisational changes which became effective in the existence of for more than nine reasons it has January 2013. relationships or years since his initial determined that circumstances which appointment to the Mr Hunt is A separate Group HSE, Risk and Compliance Department continued to may appear relevant Board in May 2003. independent provide independent verification of the CR, business risk and compliance to its determination, notwithstanding his activities during 2012. including if the director length of service is has served on the given on page 57 of During 2012, the directors reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups board for more than this statement.
It is system of financial and non-financial controls, including operational and nine years from the however intended that compliance controls, risk management and the Groups high level internal date of their first Mr Hunt will retire control arrangements.
The Directors derive assurance from the following election.
from the Board within internal and external controls during 2012 through: the next 12 months.
h A regularly updated schedule of matters specifically reserved for a decision by the board h Implementation of policies and procedures for key business activities h An appropriate organisational structure h Control over non-operated joint venture activities through delegated representatives h Specific delegations of authority for all financial transactions and other key technical decisions h Segregation of duties where appropriate and cost effective h Business and financial reporting, including kpis h Functional management reviews h An annual letters of assurance process, through which asset and functional managers review and confirm the adequacy of internal financial and non-financial controls and their compliance with group policies and report any control weaknesses identified in the past year h A letter of assurance from the chief executive confirming the adequacy of internal controls within the company in line with its policy, and reporting of any control weaknesses identified in the past year h An annual internal audit plan, which is approved by the audit committee and board and is driven by risks and key controls h Reports from the audit committee and grmc h Reports from the group external auditor on matters identified during its statutory audit h Reports from audits by host governments and co-venturers h Independent third party reviews h The skills and experience of all employees Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65
