The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate governance The Board of Directors is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010 and which is publicly available on their website at www.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2012 the Company complied with the provisions of the Code except for Code provision B1.2 in relation to the number of independent non-executive directors.
An explanation of this temporary departure is given in the section of this report headed Directors.
Directors At the beginning of the year the Board of Directors comprised the Chairman, three executive and five non-executive directors.
During the year two non-executive directors resigned and one independent non-executive director and one executive director were appointed.
During the year, owing to health reasons, Terence Eccles decided to step down from the Board of Directors on 31 March before the completion of his term of engagement, which would otherwise have extended until February 2013.
The process to appoint an independent non-executive director in his place was put in hand and Fiona Clutterbuck was appointed to the Board on 12 September 2012.
Therefore, between these dates the Board comprised the Chairman, four executive and three non-executive directors and the Company was temporarily not in compliance with Code provision B1.2.
Richard Woodman had, for some time, been the senior executive responsible for the Groups portfolio purchases and investments under the Idem Capital brand.
In view of the increasing importance of this operation to the development of the Group, the Board determined that his role should be allocated a seat on the Board and he was, consequently, appointed an executive director of the Group with the title of Director - Corporate Development.
All of the directors bring to the Company a broad and valuable range of experience.
All of the then directors were re-elected at the Annual General Meeting on 9 February 2012 and all of the serving directors have submitted themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The names of the directors in of ce at the date of this report and their biographical details are set out on pages 12 to 13.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
There is a strong non-executive representation on the Board, including Edward Tilly, the Senior Independent Director.
This provides effective balance and challenge.
The Board is responsible for overall Group strategy, for approving major agreements, transactions and other nancing matters and for monitoring the progress of the Group against budget.
All directors receive suf cient relevant information on financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings and there is a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board, which includes material asset acquisitions and disposals, granting and varying authority levels of the Chairman and the executive directors, determination and approval of the Groups objectives, strategy and annual budget, investment decisions, corporate governance policies and financial and dividend policies.
The Chairmans other business commitments are set out in the biographical details on page 12 and there have been no signi cant changes during the period to those commitments.
There were nine regular Board meetings during the year.
Robert Dench, Nigel Terrington, Alan Fletcher and Peter Hartill attended all nine of the Board meetings during the year ended 30 September 2012, Nicholas Keen, John Heron and Edward Tilly attended eight meetings, Richard Woodman attended six of the seven meetings held following his appointment to the Board, Fiona Clutterbuck attended the one meeting held following her appointment to the Board and Terence Eccles attended one out of the four meetings held prior to his resignation owing to ill health.
Christopher Newell did not attend the one meeting held prior to his resignation.
All of the non-executive directors are independent of management and all are appointed for xed terms.
They are kept fully informed of all relevant operational and strategic issues and bring a strongly independent and experienced judgement to bear on these issues.
In November 2010 Christopher Newells appointment, following nine years on the Board, was extended for a further 12 months to enable an orderly handover of the Chairmanship of the Audit and Compliance Committee after the expected appointment of an appropriately quali ed person.
Mr Newell resigned from the Board on 31 October 2011 and the Board considers that he remained independent throughout the time of his appointment until his resignation.
Prior to 1 October 2008 the Board approved a set of guiding principles on managing con icts and agreed a process to identify and authorise any con icts which might arise.
At each meeting of the Board actual or potential con icts of interest in respect of any director are reviewed.
40 Corporate governance The Paragon Group of Companies PLC All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that board procedures are complied with.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
All directors are able to take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties whenever it is considered appropriate to do so and have access to such continuing professional development opportunities as are identi ed as appropriate in the Board appraisal process.
The Board also operates through a number of committees covering certain speci c matters, these being: The Remuneration Committee, which during the year consisted of Alan Fletcher who chairs the Committee, Fiona Clutterbuck since her appointment to the Board on 12 September 2012, Peter Hartill, Edward Tilly, Terence Eccles until his resignation from the Board on 31 March 2012 and Christopher Newell until his resignation from the Board on 31 October 2011, all of whom were independent nonexecutive directors, and the Chairman of the Company, Robert Dench.
During the year ended 30 September 2012 there were five meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
All meetings were attended by Alan Fletcher, Robert Dench, Peter Hartill and Edward Tilly and the one meeting held following Fiona Clutterbucks appointment was attended by her.
Terence Eccles did not attend the one meeting of the Committee prior to his resignation and no meetings were held prior to the resignation of Christopher Newell.
Further information about the Remuneration Committee is given in the Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors Remuneration on pages 23 to 36.
The Audit and Compliance Committee, which during the year consisted of Peter Hartill who chairs the Committee, Fiona Clutterbuck since her appointment to the Board on 12 September 2012, Alan Fletcher, Edward Tilly, Terence Eccles until his resignation from the Board on 31 March 2012 and Christopher Newell until his resignation from the Board on 31 October 2011, all of whom were independent non-executive directors.
The Board is satis ed that all members of the Committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee meets at least three times per year.
During the year ended 30 September 2012 there were three meetings of the Audit and Compliance Committee, all of which were attended by Peter Hartill, Alan Fletcher and Edward Tilly and the one meeting held following the appointment of Fiona Clutterbuck was attended by her.
No meetings were held prior to the resignation of Christopher Newell and Terence Eccles did not attend the one meeting of the Committee prior to his resignation.
Further information about the work of the Audit and Compliance Committee is given below.
The Nomination Committee, consisting of Robert Dench, who chairs the Committee, Nigel Terrington and all of the non-executive directors, ensuring that a majority of the Committees members are independent non-executive directors.
The Committee is convened as required to nominate candidates for membership of the Board, although ultimate responsibility for appointment rests with the Board.
There were two meetings of the Committee during the year to consider the appointment of a new non-executive director, resulting in the appointment of Fiona Clutterbuck to the Board on 12 September 2012.
All members of the Committee attended both meetings.
The Committee only engages in the process of identi cation of suitable candidates for appointment to the Board when requested by the Board to do so.
There is a formal process for the appointment of directors, starting with a review of the Board structure, size and composition, leading to the preparation of a written speci cation of the skills required and the identi cation of suitable candidates.
The Nomination Committee ensures that prospective non-executive directors can devote suf cient time to the appointment.
The Board recognises the bene ts that can ow from non-executive directors holding other appointments but requires them to seek the agreement of the Chairman before entering into any commitments that might affect the time they can devote to the Company.
The choice of appointee is based entirely on merit.
The Asset and Liability Committee, consisting of appropriate heads of functions and chaired by Nigel Terrington, the Chief Executive.
The Committee meets regularly and monitors Group liquidity risks, interest rate risks, currency risks and treasury counterparty exposures.
Further information on the Groups financial risk management procedures and the Committees part in them is given in note 6 to the accounts.
The Credit Committee, consisting of appropriate heads of functions and chaired by Nicholas Keen, the Finance Director.
It meets regularly and is responsible for establishing credit policy and monitoring compliance therewith.
All Board committees operate within fide ned terms of reference and suf cient resources are made available to them to undertake their duties.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, Audit and Compliance Committee and Nomination Committee are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Corporate governance 41 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The composition of the Board and its committees is kept under review, with the aim of ensuring that there is an appropriate balance of power and authority between executive and non-executive directors and that the directors collectively possess the skills and experience necessary to direct the Company and the Groups business activities.
There is an established process for external appointments through the Nomination Committee.
Ultimately, the appointment of any new director is a matter for the Board.
Executive director appointments are based upon merit and business need.
Non-executive appointments are based upon the candidates pro les matching those drawn up by the Nomination Committee.
In all cases the Board approves the appointment only after careful consideration.
The Board, individual directors and Board committees are appraised annually.
The performance of the Chief Executive is appraised by the Chairman.
The performance of the other executive directors is appraised by the Chief Executive in conjunction with the Chairman.
The results of these appraisals are presented to the Remuneration Committee for consideration and determination of remuneration.
During the year the Board conducted a formal and rigorous performance review, which was conducted internally.
All Board directors participated and discussed a list of questions on Board and Committee performance.
An externally facilitated evaluation had been carried out during the previous year.
At the Annual General Meeting the Chairman will con rm to shareholders, when proposing the re-election of any non-executive director, that, following formal performance evaluation, the individuals performance continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The non-executive directors meet at least annually to review the performance of the Chairman.
Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of executive directors and members of senior management prior to determining its recommendations on annual remuneration, performance bonuses and share options for the Boards determination.
The Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors Remuneration is on pages 23 to 36.
Relations with shareholders The Board encourages communication with the Companys institutional and private investors.
All shareholders have at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at which the directors and committee chairmen are available for questions.
The Annual General Meeting is held in London during business hours and provides an opportunity for directors to report to investors on the Groups activities and to answer their questions.
Shareholders have an opportunity to vote separately on each resolution and all proxy votes lodged are counted and the balance for and against each resolution is announced.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director have a full programme of meetings with institutional investors during the course of the year and investors comments are communicated to all members of the Board.
The Chairman and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee hold annual meetings with leading shareholders to discuss remuneration policies and other corporate governance matters and the comments received are reported to the Board and considered by the Remuneration Committee in determining or varying the Groups approach to executive compensation.
The Companys web site at www.
co. uk provides access to information on the Company and its businesses.
Accountability and audit Detailed reviews of the performance of the Groups main business lines are included within the Chairmans Statement and Chief Executives Review.
The Board uses these, together with the Directors Report on pages 14 to 17 to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The directors responsibility for the financial statements is described on page 37.
42 Corporate governance The Paragon Group of Companies PLC An on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant risks faced by the Group, which is regularly reviewed by the Board, was in place for the year ended 30 September 2012 and to the date of these financial statements.
The directors con rm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for this period and that these procedures accord with the guidance Internal Controls: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The directors are responsible for the system of internal control throughout the Group, including the system of internal control over financial reporting, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss and that assets are safeguarded against unauthorised use or disposition.
In assessing what constitutes reasonable assurance, the directors have regard to the relationship between the cost and bene ts from particular aspects of the control system.
The system of internal control includes documented procedures covering accounting, compliance, risk management, personnel matters and operations, clear reporting lines, delegation of authority through a formal structure of mandates, a formalised budgeting, management reporting and review process, the use of key performance indicators throughout the Group and regular meetings of the Asset and Liability and Credit Committees and senior management.
Internal control over financial reporting within the Group is provided by a process designed, under the supervision of the Finance Director and senior financial management of the Group, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes, including the process of preparing the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures intended to ensure that records are maintained that fairly, and in reasonable detail, re ect transactions and dispositions of assets, to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of the financial statements, to ensure that receipts and expenditures are only being made in accordance with management authorisation and to provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may reduce.
The Board receives regular reports setting out key performance and risk indicators.
In addition, the Board operates a formal risk management process, from which the key risks facing the business are identi ed.
The process results in reports to the Board on how these risks are being managed.
The Board has a programme of regular presentations from senior management to enable the Board to review the operation of internal controls in relation to the risks associated with their speci c areas.
The system of internal control is monitored by management and by an internal audit function that concentrates on the areas of greater risk and reports its conclusions regularly to management and the Audit and Compliance Committee.
The internal audit work plan is approved annually by the Audit and Compliance Committee, which reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control annually and reports its conclusions to the Board.
Audit and Compliance Committee The Audit and Compliance Committee, comprising the independent non-executive directors of the Group, monitors the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, reviews the Groups internal control and risk management systems, monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, monitors the relationship between the Group and the external auditors and provides a forum through which the Groups external and internal audit functions report to the non-executive directors.
The Committee is also responsible for ensuring that the system and controls for regulatory compliance are effective.
The Committee reviews the scope and the results of the annual external audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
Before recommending the re-appointment of the external auditors, who have served since 1985, to the Board, the Committee engaged with the auditors to ensure that they are still providing the required quality of service and remained independent.
The Committee considered the auditors understanding of the Groups business, their access to appropriate financial services and regulatory specialists within their rm, both locally and nationally, and their understanding of the sectors in which the Group operates, together with the performance of the audit, the auditors conduct of their relationship with the Group and the requirements of the Groups financial control process and have concluded that the needs of the Group would not be best served by putting the external audit out to tender at this time.
The Committee has not identi ed any factors which might restrict its choice of external auditor.
Corporate governance 43 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Both the Audit and Compliance Committee and the external auditors have in place safeguards to avoid any compromise of the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Committee considers the independence of the external auditors annually and the Group has a formal policy for the engagement of its external auditors to supply non-audit services.
The policy is designed to ensure that neither the nature of the service to be provided nor the level of reliance placed on the services could impact the objectivity of the external auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements.
The policy precludes the appointment of the external auditors to provide any service where there is involvement in management functions or decision making, or any service on which management may place primary reliance in determining the adequacy of internal controls, financial systems or financial reporting.
The external auditors may provide corporate finance and similar services provided there is no signi cant advocacy role or tax services but, if the advice given or the position taken would be material to the Group, the prior consent of the Committee would be required.
Internal audit services may only be provided by the external auditor where acting under the instruction of Internal Audit management and with the prior consent of the Committee.
Other services may be procured by management without the prior consent of the Committee, but are reported to the Committee on an ongoing basis.
Fees paid to the external auditors are shown in note 16 to the Accounts.
Other than services required to be provided by external auditors by legislation or regulation, non-audit services relate to taxation and to corporate finance activity.
In respect of taxation services the Committee has considered the services provided and concluded that the understanding of the Group and the industry demonstrated by the advisers make them well placed to meet the Groups needs.
In respect of the corporate finance services, the external auditors rm was selected to provide these services as they were considered to offer the most appropriate skills and experience for the projects concerned in a cost-effective manner.
Other potential providers were considered and the use of the external auditors rm was approved by the Committee after having received con rmation from the auditors that they had taken speci c steps to protect their independence in accordance with the Auditing Practices Boards Revised Ethical Standards for Auditors.
During the course of the year accounting rms other than the external auditors have been engaged for particular assignments.
At each meeting the Audit and Compliance Committee receives reports of reviews conducted throughout the Group by the Internal Audit and, from time to time, compliance functions.
The Chairman, the executive directors, Director of Financial Accounting and Group Company Secretary, Director of Legal Services, Head of Internal Audit and a partner and other representatives from the external auditors normally attend meetings of the Committee at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
Going concern basis The business activities of the Group, its current operations and those factors likely to affect its future results and development, together with a description of its financial position and funding position, are described in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 6 and Chief Executives review on pages 7 to 11.
The principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group, and the steps taken to mitigate these risks are described on pages 45 to 46.
Note 5 to the accounts includes an analysis of the Groups working capital position and policies, while note 6 includes a detailed description of its funding structures, its use of financial instruments, its financial risk management objectives and policies and its exposure to credit, interest rate and liquidity risk.
Critical accounting estimates affecting the results and financial position disclosed in this annual report are discussed in note 4.
As described under Accountability and Audit above, the Group has a formalised process of budgeting, reporting and review, which provides information to the directors which is used to ensure the adequacy of resources available for the Group to meet its business objectives.
The securitisation funding structures described in note 6 ensure that a substantial proportion of the Groups originated loan portfolio is matchfunded to maturity.
Repayment of the securitisation borrowings is restricted to funds generated by the underlying assets and there is limited recourse to the Groups general funds.
Recent and current loan originations utilising the Groups available warehouse facilities described in note 6 are re nanced through securitisation from time to time.
The Groups only working capital debt is the 110.0 million corporate bond which does not mature until 2017.
As a consequence the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
