CORPORATEGOVERNANCE Personal Assets Trust is a self-managed investment trust run by its Board, which takes all major decisions collectively.
,   Board within which the Chairman who is elected by the Directors from among their own number acts as primusinterpares.
The Directors are elected by the shareholders and regard corporate governance and accountability to shareholders as fundamental.
They therefore place considerable emphasis on running the Company in the way they believe to be best suited to the successful management of an investment trust on behalf of its shareholders.
Arrangements appropriate to an investment trust in respect of corporate governance have been made by the Board.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AICs Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles  theUKCode, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations which are of specific relevance to investment trusts.
The AIC Code issued in October 2010 can be obtained from the AICs website at www.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code, will provide better information to .
The Company has complied throughout the year with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the , .
The Board does not consider it appropriate for a Senior Independent Director to be appointed as .
The Board does not consider it appropriate for Directors to be appointed for a specific term as recommended by principle 4 of the AIC Code and provision B.
All of the non-executive Directors are considered to be independent in character and judgement and, in the opinion of the Board, there are no relationships or conflicts of interest which are likely to affect the judgement of any Director.
Hamish Buchan, Martin Hamilton-Sharp and Gordon Neilly have served for more thannineyears.
However, theBoard subscribes  theAIC Code that longserving Directors should not be prevented from forming part of an independent majority, and does not consider that a Directors length of tenure reduces his ability to act independently.
Martin Hamilton-Sharp has indicated that he intends to retire as a non-executive Director of the Company at the Annual General MeetinginJuly2013.
Directors fees are determined within the limits set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Director DateofAppointment  RobinAngus ExecutiveDirector 18May1984 AGM2012 HamishBuchan Chairman 5July2001 AGM2012 MartinHamilton-Sharp 16November1990 AGM2012 GordonNeilly 30April1997 AGM2012 StuartPaul 16July2009 AGM2012 FrankRushbrook 16July2009 AGM2012 18  CORPORATEGOVERNANCE CONTINUED Any new Directors appointed during the year must stand for re-appointment at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
All executive and non-executive Directors retire annually and, where appropriate, standforre-election.
During the year there were seven Board meetings, each of which was attended by all of the Directors except Martin Hamilton-Sharp, Stuart Paul and Frank Rushbrook, who each attended six meetings.
There were two Audit Committee meetings, two Remuneration Committee meetings and a Nominations Committee meeting held during the year.
All of these meetings were attended by all of the respective , .
Only Robin Angus has a contract of service with the Company.
Details of this service contract, his remuneration, and fees paid to other Directors during the year are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Individual Directors may, after having obtained the consent of any other Director, seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense on any matter that concerns the furtherance of their duties.
 be found in the Directors Report.
Similarly, details of those persons with significant holdings in the .
The Investment Adviser is to exercise all votes exercisable by the Company in relation to the Companys investments in favour of resolutions proposed by the Boards of investee companies, save where the Board instructs otherwise.
Board decisions regarding voting on corporate resolutions of companies in which the .
 are monitored and, although normally the Company would vote in favour of all Board resolutions, any contentious matters are referred to the Directors by e-mail for comment.
Any Director disagreeing that the Company should cast an affirmative vote informs the Company Secretary and requests that his view be considered by a sub-committee of the Board consisting of any two Directors.
The sub-committee then considers the matter and informs the Director of its conclusion.
Should the Director disagree with the , .
The Board welcomes the views of shareholders and places considerable importance on communications with them.
The Investment Adviser reports back to the Board on meetings with shareholders and the Chairman and other Directors are available to meet shareholders if required.
The AnnualGeneral Meeting of the Company and the London Shareholder Meeting provide a forum, both formal and informal, for .
The Audit Committee, chaired by Stuart Paul and comprising Mr Paul, Martin Hamilton-Sharp, Gordon Neilly and Frank Rushbrook, meets at least twice yearly to coincide with the annual and interim reporting cycle.
, the Accounting Policies applied therein and to ensure compliance with financial and regulatory reporting requirements.
,  the Auditors including their remuneration, theobjectivity of theAuditors and the terms underwhichthey .
The Board considers that the provision of such services at this level is cost &YoungLLP.
The Nominations Committee, chaired by Hamish Buchan and comprising Mr Buchan, Stuart Paul and FrankRushbrook, .
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Hamish Buchan and comprising Mr Buchan, Martin HamiltonSharp and Gordon Neilly, reviews the Directorsfees, employees salaries and the remuneration paid to the  19 CORPORATEGOVERNANCE CONTINUED Investment Adviser together with the terms and conditions of appointment of the Investment Adviser on anannualbasis.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee clearly define the respective Committees responsibilities.
These terms are reviewed annually and are .
During the year the performance of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Nominations Committee, the Remuneration Committee and individual Directors was evaluated through a discussion based assessment process led by the Chairman.
The performance of the Chairman was evaluated by the other Directors.
The UK Code will require the Company to engage an external facilitator for the Board evaluation every three years.
Personal Assets Trust Administration Company Limited provides secretarial and administrative services to theCompany.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has therefore established an ongoing process designed to meet the particular needs of the ,  the Financial Reporting Council.
The process relies principally on a risk-based system of internal control whereby a test matrix is created that identifies the key functions carried out by the Company and other service providers, the individual activities undertaken within those functions, the risks associated with each activity and the controls employed to minimise those risks.
A formal annual review of these procedures is carried out by the Board and includes consideration of internal control reports issued by the Investment .
Such review procedures have been in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, and the Board is satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and, by their nature, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
At each Board meeting the Board reviews the Companys activities since the previous Board Meeting to ensure that the Investment Adviser adheres to the agreed investment policy and approved investment guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to the guidelines.
The Company does not have an internal audit function as the Audit Committee believes that the .
TheDirectorsbelieve,  the nature of the Groups business and assets, which are considered to be readily realisable if required, that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
