GOVERNANCE EFFECTIVENESS WHAT DOES EFFECTIVENESS HOW DO WE ENSURE WE ARE EFFECTIVE?
the CPC is invaluable and MEAN TO THE COMPANY?
well structured: Board evaluation The Chairman manages the board Following the internal board the board fully embraces the use of and oversees the operation of its performance evaluation in 2011 which technology as demonstrated by the committees with the aim of ensuring was carried out with the assistance of introduction of electronic board they operate effectively through the Independent Audit Limited, the board papers on iPad: and diverse range of skill sets and experience completed the tenth evaluation of its of the board members.
The board and the board works effectively in performance and that of its committees its committees are annually assessed to developing strategy and monitoring and individual directors in November ensure their culture and effectiveness is performance.
The process was carried out by maintained and that they remain fit for means of an updated and revised However, the following areas for purpose, as it is only possible to create questionnaire, which built upon the improvement were identified and value with the right people in place experience acquired from the external will be fully considered in 2013: within an environment that encourages evaluation in 2010 and the engagement and enhances effective decision-making.
review the role of and composition of with Independent Audit Limited in 2011.
It is also important that the board and the board in light of Vanquis Banks The evaluation covered: its committees evolve and develop, to growing importance to the group address the ever-changing regulatory performance: individual director performance: environment in which the group operates.
opportunities for the board to effectiveness of board committees: Evaluating the boards performance can meet senior management should lead to fresh insights into the functioning development and succession planning: be increased on board meeting days: of the board whilst potentially identifying board processes: areas that might need to be strengthened more information could be provided and developed.
on key customer relationships: and management information and operational oversight: although risk is part of the strategic decision-making it will need to be board communication: and formalised and minuted in the new development of strategy and regulatory environment following alignment with risk.
establishment of the new Financial Conduct Authority.
The results of the evaluation, which were discussed by the board as a whole at its A performance evaluation of the board, meeting in December 2012, confirmed the board committees and individual that the board of directors was balanced, directors will continue to be conducted was operating effectively, and no annually, although the process for such significant issues were identified.
evaluations will be reviewed by the board on an ongoing basis in order to optimise Positive feedback received included: the process.
there is a clearly defined strategy An external evaluation will continue to be and set of objectives: carried out every three years.
The next there has been greater contact with such evaluation will be carried out in 2013. the senior management of CCD: TRAINING strong support is provided to the Appropriate training and briefing is board by the Company Secretary: provided to all directors on appointment to the board, taking into account their the size and composition of the board individual qualifications and experience.
is appropriate: Ongoing training is arranged to suit their valuable work was carried out by the individual needs including environmental, nomination committee on succession social and governance training as planning and strengthening of the appropriate and the Chairman regularly CCD board: reviews and agrees with each director their training and development needs.
executive directors work well The Chairman discussed training and as a team: development plans with all directors board packs provide an adequate in 2012. level of detail: senior management presentations are made to the board as appropriate: 67 GOVERNANCE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS INDUCTION OF NEW DIRECTOR Each of the three non-executive directors has been formally determined On appointment, each director undertakes a comprehensive induction programme by the board to be independent for the which involves time with the Company Secretary, the executive directors, members purposes of the effective governance of of the divisional boards and visits to the key operations.
During the year, Stuart the group, in line with the independence Sinclair, our new non-executive director: expectations of the Code.
The board believes that there are no current or past had individual meetings with the visited the Vanquis Bank contact matters which could materially interfere Company Secretary and the centre in Chatham and met with with their independent judgement.
executive directors: key staff: Non-executive directors are currently had a detailed handover with the spent a day at one of the appointed for fixed periods of three years, audit committee chairman and key CCD branches: subject to confirmation by shareholders members of the group finance team accompanied a CCD agent on at the AGM following appointment.
The prior to assuming the role of audit their customer round: and initial three-year period may be extended committee chairman in October 2012: for one further three-year period and, met with the audit partner met with the divisional boards and in exceptional cases, further extended, from Deloitte LLP.
senior management of each division: subject always to annual reappointment by shareholders.
Their letters of appointment REAPPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS The board will consider all requests may be inspected at the companys Under the companys articles of for permission for other directorships registered office or can be obtained on association, each director should retire, carefully, subject to the following request from the Company Secretary.
but may be reappointed, at least at every principles: Manjit Wolstenholme is the SID and is third AGM, as well as at the first AGM a non-executive director would available to consult with shareholders following appointment.
Also, after nine not be expected to hold more than if they have concerns which contact years, a director must offer himself four other material non-executive through the normal channels of Chairman, herself for reappointment annually.
In directorships: and Chief Executive or Finance Director has accordance with the recommendations of failed to resolve or for which such contact the Code, all directors offered themselves if he she holds an executive role in is inappropriate.
for reappointment at the 2012 AGM and a FTSE 350 company, he she would biographical details of the directors were not be expected to hold more than In December 2012, the Chairman met supplied in the shareholders circular and two other material non-executive with the non-executive directors without notice of the 2012 AGM.
any executive director present and the offer themselves for reappointment at non-executive directors met without In line with the Code, an executive the 2013 AGM and at all future AGMs.
the Chairman present to discuss the director will be permitted to hold one Chairmans performance.
Robert Hough, POLICY ON BOARD APPOINTMENTS non-executive directorship and to retain the SID at that time, discussed comments The boards policy on other directorships the fees from that appointment provided arising with the Chairman.
is designed to ensure that all directors that the board considers that this will remain able to discharge their not adversely affect his executive responsibilities to the company.
The board would not permit an executive director to take on The letters of appointment of the the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company.
non-executive directors state that any proposed appointment to the board of Any request for an exception to this another company will require the prior policy is considered on its merits.
The companys policy is that a non-executive director should have sufficient time to fulfil his her duties to the company, including chairing a committee.
68 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012
