GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP APPLYING THE MAIN PRINCIPLES CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE OF THE CODE Chairs the board, the nomination Responsible for the operational The board committee and the AGM.
performance of the business and leads The board of directors is responsible to the executive committee and the rest shareholders for the long-term success Led the recruitment process for the of the senior management team.
new director in 2012. of the company and ensuring that the Monitors the performance of the other company is appropriately managed.
Responsible with the Senior executive directors.
Independent Director for carrying out The board meets regularly to discuss the the annual evaluation of the board.
Responsible for the corporate social companys strategic direction, to review L responsibilities of the group.
its financial performance, and to ensure Ensured all directors were able to E maximise their contributions to the A With the Finance Director, monitors the that risk management and internal control D board.
risk appetite framework, the key group systems are appropriately aligned with E risks, the divisional risk registers and Made sure, with the Chief Executive and its strategic objectives.
R the various internal management Company Secretary, that the board was S systems in place.
The board has approved terms of kept properly informed and consulted H reference which contain a schedule of on all issues reserved to it.
Develops the groups strategy with I matters specifically reserved to it for the Director of Corporate Strategy With the Chief Executive made sure the P for review at the annual Corporate decision, including corporate strategy, views of shareholders were known to Planning Conference.
approval of budgets and financial results, the board through the Investor Relations new board appointments, proposals for report tabled at each board meeting.
With the Finance Director, maintains an effective dialogue dividend payments, the approval of all Worked closely with the Chief Executive with major shareholders.
major transactions and authorisation on key business decisions and challenged proposals where appropriate.
With the Director of Corporate Affairs, of directors interests that conflict, or maintains key relationships with the may conflict, with the interests of the Government, relevant regulators company.
The boards five committees and opinion formers.
also have written terms of reference Chairs the boards of which can be found on the companys Vanquis Bank Limited and website.
In addition, the group has a Delivering the Consumer Credit Division.
detailed corporate policies manual which decisions sets out authority levels within the group KNOWLEDGE for effective EXPERIENCE and which was last reviewed and development updated in July 2012.
Divisional boards NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS COMPANY SECRETARY of the group and the corporate office are required to Provide strong, independent Secretary to the board and each report on compliance with the corporate and constructive challenge.
of its committees, reporting policies manual on a biannual basis.
Represent a collective, broad range of The executive committee, comprising the experience and independent judgement.
Facilitated the induction of the new three executive directors, normally meets non-executive director.
Once a decision is made they support at least once a week, and more frequently the approach taken by the board on any Assists the Chairman and Senior as required.
E Independent Director in the deals with matters relating to the running F evaluation of the board.
Significant contribution to the direction of the group, other than those reserved to F and strategy of the group through Keeps the board and its committees E the board and those specifically assigned participation in the annual Corporate fully informed on governance policies C to the other committees.
There is a formal Planning Conference and practices.
T schedule of matters reserved to it for Offer multiple views on the risk, Manages the provision of timely and I decision.
consequences and possible V accurate information to the board and implications of any board decision.
E its committees for their meetings.
Implemented the electronic distribution of board and committee papers through the use of iPads following output from the 2011 board evaluation regarding time management on board meeting days.
64 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 GOVERNANCE ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS Risk Audit Nomination Remuneration Advisory Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings in 2012 10 7 4 6 3 John van Kuffeler 10 4 Peter Crook 10 4 Andrew Fisher 10 3 Chris Gillespie 10 Rob Anderson 10 7 4 6 3 1 Robert Hough 10 7 4 6 3 Manjit Wolstenholme 10 7 4 6 3 2 Stuart Sinclair 2 2 2 1 1 Resigned on 31 January 2013 2 Appointed on 1 October 2012 THE RIGHT TEAM Chairman Strategy In addition to the responsibilities The board is responsible for the consideration of the opportunities set out in the diagram on page 64, establishment of, and changes to, to grow the group both organically the Chairman also chairs the boards of the group strategy.
In addition to the and by acquisition: and Hyperion Insurance Group Limited and regular discussion and review at board a restatement and refinement of Marlin Financial Group Limited.
These meetings of progress against strategy, the groups overall strategy which appointments involve no more than two an annual two-day Corporate Planning is designed to create value, deliver and a half days work per week and there Conference CPC is dedicated to results and integrate the groups have been no material changes in his reviewing and developing the groups businesses for the benefit of all other commitments since the year end.
The conference is attended stakeholders.
by all board members, the Company Secretary and the Director of Corporate KEY BOARD DISCUSSIONS AND ACTIONS Senior Independent Director SID Strategy.
In addition, in 2012 the Managing During 2012, the board discussed and Following the retirement of Robert Hough Director and Commercial Director of implemented the following key actions: in January 2013, Manjit Wolstenholme Vanquis Bank attended the CPC and assumed the role of SID in February 2013.
Renewal of the groups 382.5m the agenda included: She is available to shareholders, acts as syndicated bank facility.
a sounding board for the other directors a review of the progress made on the Update of the EMTN programme and and confidante for the Chairman.
issues identified at the CPC in 2011: approval of the issue of the groups Advisory a discussion on the general macrothird retail bond.
All directors are able to consult with the economic environment in which Discussion and delegation of Company Secretary, who is secretary the group operates: authority to negotiate with the to all of the board committees.
The a presentation by the Finance Director FSA on increasing the level of retail appointment and removal of the Company on the groups diversified funding deposit taking by Vanquis Bank from Secretary is a matter for the board.
strategy and how it supported the 80% to 90% of its receivables.
There is a formal procedure by which any groups strategic objectives: Appointment of Deloitte LLP as the director may take independent professional a presentation by the Managing groups auditor.
advice relating to the performance of his Director of CCD on the issues facing her duties at the companys expense.
Approval of a policy to implement the the division and the opportunities to requirements of auto-enrolment in improve business effectiveness in Risk management accordance with the requirements the new regulatory environment: Identification and management of risk of The Pensions Act 2008. is central to the creation of long-term a presentation by the Managing Appointment of Stuart Sinclair as shareholder value and is overseen by the Director of Vanquis Bank and a a non-executive director.
risk advisory committee on behalf of the detailed discussion on the key board.
The board receives regular updates business opportunities both Approval of the removal of the link on the key group risks and ensures that in the UK and overseas: between accrued benefits and final the risk management framework and salary in the staff defined benefit the risk profile for the group support pension scheme.
65 GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP BOARD CALENDAR IN 2012 At specific meetings JANUARY MAY JULY SEPTEMBER Review of the international Review of Corporate Review and approval of the Approval of removal of the opportunities for Vanquis Governance Reports on interim results including: salary link to accrued benefits Bank AGM resolutions within the defined benefit Report of the final salary pension scheme Review and approval of audit committee interim management Approval of new Interim results statement counterparty bank limit FEBRUARY announcement Two-day corporate Approval of a recovery Results presentation Approval of the planning conference CPC and resolution plan for Recommendation reappointment of auditor submission to the FSA regarding interim dividend Review and approval of Approval of external board Review of divisional and annual results, including: appointment for a noncorporate office compliance Report of the executive director with the corporate audit committee policies manual Preliminary Approval of updated announcement counterparty limits OCTOBER Results presentation Approval to implement use Annual report and Review and approval of of iPads for electronic board financial statements interim management paper distribution statement Recommendation Review and approval of regarding final dividend Authorisation of directors revisions to the corporate potential conflict of interest policies manual Review of divisional health and safety annual reports Approval of the reappointment of Rob JUNE 2 meetings in month AUGUST DECEMBER Anderson as a nonexecutive director Review of: Approval of appointment Review and approval Approval of proposals to of Stuart Sinclair as a of 2013 budget P otential new products be submitted to the AGM non-executive director being considered by Review of results of Review of divisional and Vanquis Bank board evaluation corporate office compliance CCD business effectiveness Agreement of actions with the corporate policies programme from board evaluation manual Review of the CPC Review of independence of Consideration of nonconclusions and actions non-executive directors executive director fees Appointment of Deloitte Review of group Renewal of the groups LLP as auditor tax strategy syndicated bank facilities 2012 budget update Approval of the policy to Approval of the update to implement the requirements groups EMTN Programme of auto-enrolment and issue of third retail bond under the programme Approval of external board appointment for a non-executive director At each main meeting Review and discussion of reports on: Review of: Strategic considerations Treasury matters Minutes of previous meetings Acquisition opportunities Legal and company Minutes of the meetings of secretary matters the executive committee Trading results and KPIs Board committee matters Review of implementation Management accounts and of actions agreed at a financial commentary Investor relations and previous meetings shareholder feedback Operational reports from each division Corporate affairs 66 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012
