GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITOR ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Review the groups internal and AUDIT COMMITTEE All matters relating to the external whistleblowing policies.
appointment and reappointment of Members: Review and approve the register 1 the auditor, auditors remuneration Stuart Sinclair Chairman of benefits offered to directors in and the policy on the supply of nonRob Anderson accordance with the companys code 2 audit services to the company by Robert Hough of practice on benefits.
Manjit Wolstenholme KEY HIGHLIGHTS Monitoring the integrity of the Change of group auditor in June Attendees by invitation: financial statements of the group and 2012 following a rigorous audit Peter Crook the formal announcements relating tender process.
Andrew Fisher to the groups financial performance.
Chris Gillespie Change of committee chairman Review significant financial reporting David Mortlock following the appointment of judgements contained in the financial Head of Audit & Risk a new non-executive director.
Gary Thompson Introduction of additional committee Group Financial Controller Approve the internal audit meetings to discuss the final and Deloitte LLP plan annually.
External auditor 1 Appointed on 1 October 2012 and assumed Chairmanship from Manjit Wolstenholme on that date 2 Resigned on 31 January 2013 Details of the work carried out by the audit committee are set out in the table below: AUDIT COMMITTEE CALENDAR IN 2012 At specific meetings FEBRUARY 2 MEETINGS JUNE JULY 2 MEETINGS DECEMBER Review of full-year results Consideration of the Review of interim results, Proposed internal audit including: output from the audit including: plan for the following year tender process External auditors report - External auditors report Annual report on external for the year ended Recommendation to the for the 6 months ended whistleblowing activity 31December board on appointment of 30 June Review of register of Deloitte as the groups Draft preliminary - Draft interim results benefits received auditor.
announcement for the announcement by directors year ended 31December Discussion with auditor Review of performance Draft Annual Report and without any executive and effectiveness of Financial Statements director or employee the committee for the year ended present 31December Independence of auditor Board statement on internal controls within Annual Report and OCTOBER Financial Statements Discussion with auditor Auditors planning report without any executive for forthcoming year end director or employee present Recommendation to the board regarding reappointment of auditor Independence of auditor At each main meeting Review of minutes of previous meetings Internal audit activity report Review of implementation of actions from previous meetings Schedule of fees paid to auditor, including for any non-audit work Review of subsidiary company audit committee minutes Fraud report 78 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 GOVERNANCE Manjit Wolstenholme chaired the Following a series of meetings with senior No information technology, remuneration, management of the group and detailed recruitment, valuation or general committee from joining the board in 2007 until 1 October 2012.
She is a chartered presentations by all three firms, the consultancy work may be awarded to committee recommended to the board the auditor without the prior written accountant and is considered to have the recent and relevant financial experience that Deloitte LLP Deloitte replace PwC as approval of the chairman of the audit the groups auditor.
The board accepted required by the provisions of the Code.
committee and such approval is only Stuart Sinclair was appointed chairman of the proposal of the committee and, as given in exceptional circumstances.
a result, PwC resigned as auditor and the committee on 1 October 2012 and is The chairman of the audit committee also considered to have the recent and Deloitte was appointed with effect must approve in advance any single from 29 June 2012.
Deloitte carried out relevant financial experience required by award of non-audit work with an the provisions of the Code.
the review of the groups interim results aggregate cost of 250,000 or more.
and provided the committee with a The auditor may not perform internal The other members of the committee letter of independence, which will be audit work.
Accordingly, following have a wide range of business and financial regularly updated and considered by the appointment of Deloitte as the experience which is evidenced by their the committee.
groups auditor, they ceased to provide biographical summaries on pages a supporting external resource to the 62 to 63.
In accordance with best practice and internal audit function, although they guidance from the Financial Reporting The group operates an in-house internal did complete a review which was in Council, the audit committee will continue audit function managed by the Head of progress.
External specialist resource to review the qualification, expertise, Audit & Risk with specialist service for the internal audit function is now resources and independence of the provided by third-party consultants provided by KPMG LLP.
external auditor and the effectiveness where necessary.
The internal audit of the audit process during the next In 2012, the committee regularly function reports to the audit committee financial year.
considered a schedule of audit and which helps to ensure the functions non-audit work carried out by the independence from group management, The committee has adopted a policy groups auditor Deloitte and PwC.
on the appointment of staff from the and the audit committee reviews regular This fell broadly into four categories: reports on the activity of this function.
auditors to positions within the various fees payable for the audit of the parent group finance departments.
It grades At its February and July meetings, company and consolidated financial appointments into four categories and the committee had a separate session statements: audit of the companys sets out the approvals required.
Neither with the groups auditor without any subsidiaries pursuant to legislation: a partner of the audit firm who has acted executive director or employee of the other services pursuant to legislation: as engagement partner, the quality review company or group being present.
partner, other key audit partners or gives members of the committee the partners in the chain of command, nor a Fees paid to Deloitte for non-audit work opportunity to raise any issues, including senior member of the audit engagement during the year amounted to 107,000 any issues on the final results of the group, team, may be employed as group Finance 2011: 147,000, comprising further directly with the auditor.
The chairman Director, Group Financial Controller or assurance services, tax advisory services of the committee also meets separately a divisional finance director.
Fees paid to PwC for with the Head of Audit & Risk on a non-audit work during the year amounted quarterly basis.
The company has a formal policy on the to 161,000 2011: 60,000 relating use of auditors for non-audit work.
This During the year, the audit committee was primarily to tax advisory services and policy is reviewed once a year.
authorised by the board to review the the issue of the third retail bond.
provision of audit services to the group.
The award of non-audit work to the The committee formally considered auditor is managed in order to ensure Following a rigorous tender process, its effectiveness in 2012.
On the basis which included the establishment of that the auditor is able to conduct an of the board and committee evaluation independent audit and is perceived to be a sub-committee comprising the nonundertaken, the overall view was that executive directors, the Finance Director, independent by the groups shareholders the committee was working effectively.
the Group Financial Controller, the Head It was also agreed that the increased of Audit & Risk, the Company Secretary The performance of non-audit work allocation of time to consider and review and the Finance Directors of the Consumer by the groups auditor is minimised and the interim and full-year results which Credit Division and Vanquis Bank, an work is awarded only when, by virtue of was implemented in 2012 as a result of the invitation to tender was issued to the their knowledge, skills or experience, the 2011 board and committee evaluation encumbent auditor, Pricewaterhouse auditor is clearly to be preferred over process had been very effective and Coopers LLP PwC, and two other alternative suppliers.
would continue in 2013. accounting firms.
The committee The group maintains an active relationship developed a scoring system based on pre-determined criteria to ensure that with at least two other professional the group continued to be subject to a accounting advisors.
The nature and cost robust and independent external audit.
of all non-audit work awarded to the groups external auditor for the period since the last meeting and for the yearto-date is reported to each meeting of the audit committee, together with an explanation as to why the auditor was the preferred supplier.
