e e y t r t u i s c E m a e o m x r T o m e c c m u i t t i t v e e e e D F n l i b a v e t o o n i i I s i t a r d i r e t u o t d t T a a n i s n N a I n l m i N m A m o o E N c c N a o t d n s a m D e y R t d v l g C m n R h v r i i m e i u i t o GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The board is responsible for the alignment of strategy and risk, and for maintaining a sound system of risk management and internal controls.
We continue to drive improvements to our risk management process and systems, which are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The group has a robust governance to the board.
An annual programme provides oversight of the key financial framework which is set out in the chart of work which targets and reports on matters of the group.
Our risk management framework higher-risk areas is carried out by the The group finance function establishes is firmly embedded within our corporate internal audit function.
The operation of the process and timetable for financial governance structure, and incorporates internal financial controls is monitored by reporting and consolidation activities a five-stage process as detailed in the regular management reviews, including and identifies and approves changes diagram on page 70. a requirement for each division to certify to accounting and financial reporting compliance quarterly.
The risk advisory committee, details The board requires the divisions and the of which can be found on pages 70 to 71, In accordance with the revised Guidance corporate office to operate in accordance considers the nature and extent of the for Directors on the Combined Code, the with the corporate policies manual and risks facing the group, keeps them board has reviewed the effectiveness the divisions and the corporate office under review, reviews the framework of the groups framework of internal are obliged to certify compliance on to mitigate such risks, and notifies the controls during 2012.
The process for a biannual basis.
board of changes in the status and identifying, evaluating and managing control of risks.
It reports to the board A six-weekly finance forum, chaired by the significant risks faced by the group on a regular basis.
In addition, the risk the Finance Director and attended by was in place throughout 2012 and up advisory group, details of which can divisional finance directors and senior to 26February 2013 and no significant be found on page 70, formally reviews finance management including the heads failings or weaknesses were identified the divisional risk registers four times of tax, treasury and risk, reviews and during this period.
a year and it reports to the risk advisory committee.
GOVERNANCE Details of the groups key risks, together FRAMEWORK with the controls and procedures in place to mitigate the risks, can be found on pages 72 to 75.
The key elements of the internal control system, including the financial reporting processes, have been established in accordance with the revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
In December each year, the board approves detailed budgets and cash flow forecasts for the year ahead.
It also approves outline Board of projections for the subsequent four years.
directors An update to the budget is approved in June each year.
Actual performance against budget is monitored in detail within the groups management accounts and this is supplemented with a rolling forecast of the full-year outturn.
The groups management accounts form part of the board papers for each meeting.
The audit committee, details of which can be found on pages 78 to 79, regularly reviews the adequacy of internal controls including financial, operational and compliance controls in conjunction with the internal audit function and reports 69 s s I n s g s o u I o i k o a c p r o t n c k M y V a a t A r m e y e e O L e t t t R i P i d m l F s u t a f i s e o u P n L e A g r n a m c R u d n n o u a m c r i o e C b e p B c c m o u m n m e i r t e t a l t s a e a e t u r i c i e o n i p l a o o r m o p n C GOVERNANCE ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES KEY HIGHLIGHTS RISK ADVISORY COMMITTEE Design, implementation End to end review of risk and monitoring of the risk management framework.
Rob Anderson Chairman Updated and refreshed the risk Andrew Fisher Consideration of the nature appetite framework.
1 Robert Hough and extent of the risks facing the 2 Strengthened underlying divisional Stuart Sinclair group and appropriate mitigation.
Manjit Wolstenholme Review and approval of the groups DRA.
Attendees by invitation: Peter Crook Review and approval of the Chris Gillespie groups ICAAP for submission David Mortlock to the board.
Head of Audit & Risk Review of the groups business Phil Shepherd continuity plans.
Group Treasurer 1 Resigned on 31 January 2013 2 Appointed on 1 October 2012 The groups risk management framework OUR RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK is overseen by the risk advisory committee on behalf of the board.
The committees 2 function is to keep under review the RISK groups risk management framework, APPETITE and to report to the board on its work.
It IDENTIFICATION Risk appetite sets reviews the group and divisional key risk There is an ongoing the boundaries for registers, considers the most important process of identifying acceptable levels of risk risks facing the group and is responsible risks which threaten and enables management for reviewing the groups Internal Capital the achievement of to review and control 1 Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP business objectives.. business activities and prior to submission to the board.
Details of the work carried out by the risk advisory committee is set out in the table on page 71.
The risk advisory committee delegates RISK a number of responsibilities to the risk 3 MONITORING advisory group which comprises the ADVISORY AND REPORTING ASSESSMENT executive directors, the Company Risk assessments and GROUP Each identified risk Secretary, the Group Financial Controller, action plans are monitored is assessed and graded the Head of Audit & Risk and the Group regularly and overseen by in terms of probability, Treasurer.
The Deputy Company Secretary divisional risk committees, impact and the controls and divisional risk managers also attend the risk advisory group in place to mitigate the meetings by invitation.
The risk and the risk advisory the risk.
advisory group considers the extent and committee on behalf of the board.
nature of the risks facing the group, the extent and categories of risk which are ACTION PLANS acceptable to bear, the likelihood of any 5 Action plans are risk materialising, the groups ability to developed for any risks mitigate any risk, and the costs of where the level of operating particular controls relative exposure is deemed to the benefits obtained.
It also reviews to be unacceptable.. the key risk registers prepared by the 4 group and the divisional risk committees three times a year, challenging and making changes where appropriate.
It submits a schedule of key risks, the group and divisional key risk registers and the ICAAP to the risk advisory committee for review and approval.
70 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 GOVERNANCE RISK ADVISORY COMMITTEE CALENDAR IN 2012 At specific meetings JANUARY JULY OCTOBER Reviewed divisional Business Detailed review and approval of Review of ICAAP for submission Continuity Plans the Documented Risk Assessment to board for approval Risk management framework development proposals Performance and effectiveness of the committee Review of the committees terms of reference At each main meeting Review of minutes of previous meetings Review of implementation of actions agreed at previous meetings Divisional risk registers Key group risks Risk appetite reports Throughout 2012, the risk advisory combined with the rest of the framework committee has overseen the continuing allow effective risk oversight and enhancement and embedding of the risk governance by the committee management framework across the group.
Enhancements during the year included The committee formally considered an updated risk appetite framework, its effectiveness in 2012.
On the basis further development of divisional risk of the board and committee evaluation governance processes and an improved undertaken, the overall view was that reporting suite.
These enhancements it was working effectively.
71 GOVERNANCE RISKS Set out below is a summary of the groups key risks together with the controls and procedures in place to mitigate the risks.
The summary is not intended to be an exhaustive or prioritised list of risks facing the group or a complete list of mitigating controls and procedures.
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2012 REGULATORY The risk of loss arising from a A central in-house legal team is in place which The Consumer Credit licence RISK breach of existing regulation or monitors legislative changes and supports of Provident Personal Credit regulatory changes in the markets divisional compliance functions.
was renewed by the OFT in within which the group operates.
Expert third-party legal advice is taken Increased focus on regulation, where necessary.
Proactive engagement particularly non-standard lenders.
with regulators both in Divisional compliance functions are in place the EU and UK.
Potential read-across from which monitor compliance and report to any legislation or regulatory divisional boards.
Bristol University Personal measures introduced to address Finance Research Centre Long relationship and developed credibility with the practices of payday lenders.
study into a variable cap key regulators who recognise the different on total cost of credit.
The Financial Conduct Authority dynamics of the home credit and credit card Final report is delayed will replace the Office of Fair sectors compared with the payday lending model.
Trading OFT as the regulatory There is constructive dialogue with regulators.
body for credit businesses in 2014 Final guidance on payment Full and active participation in all relevant and there remains uncertainty as protection products was regulatory review and consultation processes to the exact form of regulation.
published in January 2013. in the UK and EU.
Vanquis Bank will comply with the guidance but there may be some modest reduction in the take up of the ROP product.
CREDIT The risk that the group will The Consumer Credit Division CCD and Credit standards remained RISK suffer unexpected losses in the Vanquis Bank credit committees set policy unchanged in both CCD and event of customer defaults.
and regularly review credit performance.
Defaults in the non-standard Credit risk is subject to ongoing review in the Vanquis Bank continues to market are typically higher than current economic climate and management maintain tight underwriting in more mainstream markets.
continues to maintain its tight underwriting controls for new accounts stance.
and credit line increases Continued pressure on following progressive customers incomes from Comprehensive daily, weekly and monthly tightening between 2007 inflation together with a fragile reporting on KPIs.
and mid-2009 in light of employment market could CCD Home credit loans are underwritten economic conditions.
increase the level of defaults.
face-to-face by agents in the customers.
Further enhancements to home: agents generally maintain weekly the CCD agents commission contact with the customer and stay up to date scheme which now includes with their circumstances: agents commission a higher rate of commission is predominantly based on collections not on collections for agents credit issued: application and behavioural who successfully deliver scoring is used to assist agents underwriting: high-quality growth.
This is loans are short term, small-sum, with average expected to benefit future issue values of between 300 and 500, collections performance.
Record low delinquency levels Vanquis Bank uses highly bespoke at Vanquis Bank has enabled underwriting including full external bureau the business to generate a data: a telephone interview is conducted prior risk-adjusted margin of 34.8%, to issuing credit: initial credit lines are low well ahead of the minimum typically 250 : customers are re-scored target of 30%.
monthly: an intensive call centre-based operation focuses on collections.
72 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 GOVERNANCE RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2012 BUSINESS The risk of loss arising from the A clear board strategy is in place.
Vanquis Bank remains the most RISK failure of the groups strategy or active participant in the nonA corporate planning conference CPC management actions over the standard credit card market is held annually.
and booked a record 375,000 Central resource is in place to develop the accounts in 2012, up from Continued pressure on customers corporate strategy.
294,000 in 2011, following incomes from rises in fuel, food New products and processes are thoroughly increased investment in the and utility costs and a protracted tested prior to roll-out.
customer acquisition period of weak or negative growth programme.
There is comprehensive monitoring of in the UK economy could impact competitor products, pricing and strategy.
the demand for credit, impairments The pilot credit card operation and the groups growth plans.
in Poland is progressing in Robust business change functions oversee line with plan and a decision change programmes.
Potential increased competition on whether to roll out the from competing formats such as The group has comprehensive monthly operation will be made by direct mail and rent to own may management accounts, a monthly rolling the 2013 half year.
restrict the ability of CCD to forecast and a biannual budgeting process.
A number of initiatives are in Loans are short term in nature and, in CCD, place to deliver sustainable Increased marketing activity from agents visit customers in their homes and are growth in CCD including existing competitors may impact therefore able to stay up to date with expanding the geographic Vanquis Banks growth rates.
footprint, modernising the The group has demonstrated the ability to approach with agents, manage the business through many cycles improving the use of including the deterioration seen in the UK information technology and economy and employment market during product development.
The management team in CCD has been recently strengthened with the appointment of a new Director of Field Operations, Commercial Director and HR Director.
REPUTATIONAL The risk that an event or Credit and collection policies are designed to Customer satisfaction remains RISK circumstance could adversely ensure that both businesses adhere to high in both CCD 92% and impact on the groups reputation, responsible lending principles.
including adverse publicity from A Compliance Committee oversees the Customer complaints remain the activities of legislators, application of the FSAs treating customers low in both businesses.
pressure groups and the media.
fairly regime in Vanquis Bank.
Continued investment Media and pressure group activity Regular customer satisfaction surveys are and focus on Corporate increases during an economic undertaken in both businesses.
Responsibility and investment downturn or when the company in the community programme.
The group invests in a centrally coordinated is performing well.
Achieved maximum score There is currently significant media rating and ranked joint first Specialist in-house teams, external advisors interest in the non-standard globally for the second year and established procedures are in place for sector primarily focused on the running amongst financial dealing with media issues.
activities of the fast-growing services companies in the A proactive communication programme is payday lending sector.
FTSE4Good Index Series targeted at key opinion formers and is which measures the coordinated centrally.
environmental, social and The 130 year old home credit business is well governance ratings of listed understood and has been subject to regular companies worldwide.
OPERATIONAL The risk of loss resulting from IT is managed in CCD and Vanquis Bank by The groups IT systems are RISK IT systems failure.
hosted by proven external specialist suppliers and Vanquis Bank is reliant on thirdThere is significant experience of managing third recovery arrangements party IT application and systems party IT arrangements within the businesses.
have been extensively providers: There are established disaster recovery tested during 2012.
FDI for its core customer credit procedures which are tested on a regular basis.
card platform: and Specialist project teams are used to manage Newcastle Building Society NBS change programmes.
for its retail deposit platform.
Insurance policies are in place to cover IT systems in CCD are hosted by eventualities such as business interruption, an external third-party provider loss of IT systems and crime.
Rigorous selection processes for third party IT systems continue to be developed suppliers to ensure that they are best in class.
73 GOVERNANCE RISKS RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2012 Threats to agent safety make it Significant time and expenditure is invested The group continues unsafe to operate home collection.
in ensuring staff are safety conscious.
to focus significant time and effort promoting and Agents in CCD are required to Assistance is given to agents to ensure training staff on safety carry cash to issue credit and that they are safety aware.
and providing assistance they receive cash as a result of Induction sessions and regular updates to agents to ensure they their collections activities.
are provided on safety awareness.
Safety awareness weeks form part of AIG continue to confirm that the annual calendar.
the group has a high standard Safety incidents are monitored closely by of safety awareness across management with follow-up actions taken.
the group and its safety policies are properly An annual independent audit of health and implemented and followed.
safety policies and procedures is carried out by the groups insurers, AIG.
The risk of loss resulting from IT and physical security policies are in place.
Processes surrounding loss or abuse of confidential data physical security in CCD Dedicated resources are in place to support or systems.
the management of information security.
Additional controls have been Both CCD and Vanquis Bank utilise Reporting of security-related incidents implemented to manage and store sensitive personal data as to divisional risk committees.
physical data distribution part of their day-to-day operations.
Specialist departments are in place in each supported by a training There continues to be heightened business to prevent, detect and monitor fraud.
focus and emphasis on data loss by There is regular fraud reporting to divisional the Information Commissioners boards and to the group audit committee.
Hierarchical field management structure and weekly agent performance reviews ensure a strong controls environment within CCD.
Loss of key management or Effective recruitment, retention and succession Senior management reduction in staff morale impacts planning strategies are in place.
The group has competitive remuneration and The risk of loss of key staff is incentive structures.
increased following the groups Effective training and personal development successful performance over plans are in place throughout the group.
LIQUIDITY The risk that the group will have The model of borrowing long and lending short The group has continued to RISK insufficient liquid resources results in a positive maturity mismatch, which make excellent progress in available to fulfil its operational means the duration of the receivables book is diversifying its funding base plans and or meet its financial significantly less than the average duration of in 2012. obligations as they fall due.
This profile significantly Renewal of core syndicated reduces the liquidity risk for the group.
Wider restriction of credit bank facility of 382.5m in available from banks and A board approved policy is in place to maintain February 2012 through to institutional investors.
committed borrowing facilities which provide May 2015. funding headroom for at least the following Successful issue of third retail 12 months, after assuming that Vanquis Bank bond of 120m in March 2012. will fund 90% of its receivables book through Permitted retail deposits retail deposits.
funding limit increased by The groups strategy of maintaining committed the FSA from 80% to 90% of facility headroom and diversifying funding sources Vanquis Banks receivables.
has resulted in a strong balance sheet position.
Retail deposits base increased Liquidity is managed by an experienced central from 140m to 327m during treasury department.
2012, representing 51% of Vanquis Bank maintains a liquid assets buffer Vanquis Banks receivables in line with the FSAs liquidity guidelines.
against a permitted target ratio of 90%.
There is daily monitoring of actual and expected cashflows.
Headroom on committed facilities of 192m as at 31December 2012 which, together with the retail deposits programme at Vanquis Bank, is sufficient to meet growth and contractual maturities until May 2015.
The group remains an investment grade credit, with a credit rating maintained at BBB with a stable outlook.
74 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 GOVERNANCE RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2012 FINANCIAL The risk that the group suffers The groups approach to tax is embodied in a Working to further improve RISK a loss as a result of unexpected board-endorsed tax strategy which has also and embed the procedures tax liabilities.
This strategy seeks to in place which seek to ensure ensure that the group complies with tax rules that the agents engaged by HMRC is placing greater emphasis and regulations, pay the tax it is legally required CCD remain self-employed.
on taxation controls in assessing to pay in the territories in which it operates tax risk and the associated level Working alongside HMRC to and its reputation as a responsible taxpayer of scrutiny placed on companies.
agree a number of historic is safeguarded.
The strategy also sets out corporation tax matters, the groups approach for managing tax risk thereby building on the and ensuring tax receives the appropriate progress made in 2010. consideration at board level.
An experienced in-house team is responsible for managing the groups tax affairs and advice is sought from external advisors on all material transactions.
The group is committed to building open and honest relationships in its day-to-day interaction with tax authorities.
Management has regular and positive dialogue with HMRC across all UK taxes which includes advance discussion of transactions where the tax treatment is uncertain.
The group has documented systems, processes and controls to support the UK taxes it pays and the preparation and submission of related tax returns.
Policies and procedures are in place which support the management of key tax risk areas, including policies and procedures which seek to ensure that the relationship between CCD and the agents it engages is such that selfemployed status is maintained.
PENSION The risk that there may be The defined benefit pension scheme was The groups pension asset for RISK insufficient assets to meet the substantially closed to new members from accounting purposes stands liabilities of the groups defined 1January 2003. at 23.0m as at 31 December benefit pension scheme.
Cash balance arrangements are now in place The current economic within the defined benefit pension scheme to The defined benefit pension environment results in increased reduce the exposure to improving mortality scheme has recently been volatility in equity markets and rates.
amended so that accrued corporate bond yields.
pension benefits are now The pension investment strategy aims to linked to increases in CPI Improving mortality rates maintain an appropriate balance of assets rather than future salary in the UK.
This reduces New employees are invited to join the groups the future liabilities stakeholder pension scheme which carries no of the scheme.
investment or mortality risk for the group.
Annual contributions to the defined benefit scheme will increase from 10m to 16m in 2013, following the triennial funding valuation performed as at 1 June 2012.
