GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Further development and refinement Details of the committees work during NOMINATION COMMITTEE of the groups succession plans for the year are set out in the table below.
senior management, which included Members: At its meeting in February 2013, the significant appointments to the Vanquis John van Kuffeler Chairman committee formally considered its Bank board and the strengthening of the Peter Crook effectiveness in 2012, and on the basis senior management team within CCD.
Rob Anderson of the board and committee evaluation 1 Stuart Sinclair Worked in partnership with the undertaken, the overall view was that 2 Robert Hough Chief Executive in developing an is was working effectively.
The quality Manjit Wolstenholme outline succession plan with the of the work and thinking behind the 1 Appointed on 1 October 2012 assistance of external consultants.
succession plans for the Chief Executive 2 Resigned on 31 January 2013 and the CCD senior management team The nomination committee ensures were specifically acknowledged during that the balance of directors remains ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES the 2012 board and committee appropriate as the group develops Regular review of the structure, size evaluation process.
and it has sufficient oversight of the and composition of the board, and succession planning process below DIVERSITY POLICY make recommendations for change board level.
Succession planning allows Details of our diversity policy are set to the board to ensure it remains the board to analyse the balance of out in the Chairmans letter on page 60. constantly refreshed.
skills, experience and knowledge in the As part of the process for recruiting Consideration of the succession boardroom and identify and address any our new non-executive director, the planning for directors and other senior gaps as part of the natural refreshment committee appointed Egon Zehnder, a management to ensure the succession of the board.
It has a formal schedule of recruitment consultancy firm who have of candidates is managed smoothly matters reserved to it for decision.
signed up to the voluntary code of conduct and effectively.
on gender diversity best practice to assist The committee keeps under review a the board in identifying and prioritising Identification and nomination of detailed succession plan for the executive the skills and competencies required.
candidates for approval by the directors, the Chairman and the persons board to fill board vacancies.
Twenty two candidates were initially Below board level, succession planning identified, of which two were women.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS safeguards the pipeline of talented Following discussions, an initial shortlist Review of the performance of individuals within the group who are of seven, of which two were women, Rob Anderson and recommendation capable and have potential to succeed the was presented to the committee.
On the to the board to extend his term of executive directors and other members committees authority, having reviewed office to 30 March 2015, which was of the senior management team in the list, Egon Zehnder approached all approved by shareholders at the the short, medium and long term.
A final shortlist of three AGM in May 2012.
As a consequence, a series of bespoke was presented by the committee to the Recommendation to the board training and development plans have board and, as a result, Stuart Sinclair was regarding the appointment of been prepared and are being implemented appointed following a recommendation Stuart Sinclair.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE CALENDAR IN 2012 At specific meetings JANUARY MAY JUNE AUGUST Succession planning for Consideration of shortlist Update on recruitment of Recommendation to the board and senior of potential candidates for non-executive director the board to appoint management new non-executive director Stuart Sinclair as a Review of progress on position prepared by external non-executive director Review of the succession scoping of the Chief consultants planning process Executive role Consideration of the options and development of Performance and to enhance the CCD senior a succession plan effectiveness of management team the committee Update on CCD succession plans Recommendation to the board to extend Rob Andersons term of office At each main meeting Review of minutes of previous meetings Review of implementation of actions arising from previous meetings 80 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012
