GOVERNANCE ENGAGEMENT Understanding the views of our investors is a key part of managing our business and driving it forward.
We actively engage with investors, shareholder advisory bodies and governance organisations in order to encourage shareholders to become more informed investors.
INVESTOR RELATIONS IR PROGRAMME The Chairman is responsible for Senior management devote a large a proactive approach to inviting ensuring that appropriate channels of proportion of time to the groups investors and sell-side analysts to meet communication are established between IR programme to ensure that the with divisional senior management directors and shareholders and that all group is effective in communicating and to visit operational facilities.
directors are aware of any issues and transparently with all investors, a long-standing US roadshow concerns that major shareholders analysts and stakeholders.
This is programme, both on the East and may have.
achieved through the following channels: West Coast, to build knowledge of The company has a comprehensive the annual report is a key the groups business outside of the investor relations IR programme, communication vehicle for ensuring UK.
Over the last 18 months this has through which the group Chief Executive, that investors are kept fully informed been supplemented by a European Finance Director and Head of IR engage regarding developments in the business.
roadshow programme to allow regularly with the companys largest European shareholders access the corporate website provides shareholders on a one-to-one basis to to the Chief Executive, Finance investors with timely information discuss strategic and other issues as Director and Head of IR.
and details of the groups Corporate well as to give presentations on the Social Responsibility CSR activities.
a stand-alone annual CSR report groups results.
a web app was introduced in 2012 to enable shareholders to view key a commitment to respond to website data on their tablet devices shareholders, regardless of the and mobile phones including videos, size of their holding, within two presentations, and results working days.
using a third party to obtain a commitment to running an formal feedback from investors investor day every 18 months, and sellside analysts in the form inviting institutional shareholders of an annual perception audit.
This and sell-side analysts to an on-site enables management to actively facility or an external location to respond to any concerns in the provide them with a more detailed investment community.
INVESTOR RELATIONS PROGRAMME IN 2012 JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL MAY JUNE Trading Preliminary Additional US investor AGM and IMS Paris investor statement results Edinburgh roadshow roadshow Numis mid-cap announcement investor New York, investor Frankfurt roadshow Boston, Toronto, Investor sales conference investor Los Angeles, teams roadshow roadshow San Francisco, London San Diego Edinburgh 76 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 GOVERNANCE BOARD OVERSIGHT AGM There have been no significant issues Regular dialogue with shareholders is The 2012 AGM was again held in the raised by shareholders in relation to important for good governance.
At the companys new head office building in the company but if there were any centre of the companys engagement Bradford.
The company proposed separate they would be reported to the board, with its shareholders is the AGM, which resolutions on substantially separate discussed in detail, and an appropriate provides a forum for meeting with all issues and will continue to do so.
It is the corrective action plan developed to shareholders.
The chairman of each of the companys policy to give shareholders address any concerns raised.
board committees is available to answer in excess of 20 working days notice questions from shareholders at the AGM of the AGM.
The board considers an IR report at each and there is an opportunity for shareholders board meeting which covers the general Those who are able to attend our to ask questions on each resolution nature of matters communicated and AGM have the opportunity to ask proposed.
The company has thousands discussed and includes feedback from questions and hear the views of other of shareholders, most of whom do not institutional investors.
Independent shareholders before deciding how wish or are unable to attend the actual reviews of shareholder views are also to cast their votes.
However, all shareholders have commissioned annually and reviewed that all directors are subject to annual the opportunity to ensure that their votes by the board.
re-election by shareholders and, as a are cast.
To help facilitate this we provide consequence, all members of the board the following: stood for re-election in 2012 and will Electronic and postal voting: continue to do so in future years.
shareholders can vote on all the The 2013 AGM will be held on 9 May 2013 resolutions either electronically at the companys head office in Bradford via our website or by post.
and shareholders are encouraged to attend Questions and answers: and raise any questions they may have all shareholders have the opportunity on this governance report and other to submit questions by email or post.
matters covered by the resolutions to be put to the meeting.
Results: we publish the results of the voting on all resolutions on our website and through an RNS announcement.
JULY SEPTEMBER OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER Interim results KBW Financials IMS and Zurich investor Berenberg investor analysts call roadshow European Investor sales conference investor teams roadshow conference London US investor Edinburgh roadshow New York, Boston, Chicago, Montreal, Los Angeles, San Francisco 77
