GOVERNANCE OUR DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS 49 64 1.
PETER CROOK Raising over 300m through the Vanquis 4.
JOHN VAN KUFFELER Bank retail deposit programme.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN Agreeing with the Financial Services Authority to an increase in the level of retail Appointed to the board: 2006 Appointed to the board: 1991 deposit taking by Vanquis Bank from 80% Committee membership: to 90% of its receivables.
Committee membership: Chairman, Executive Committee: Chairman, Nomination Committee Previous board & management experience: Member, Nomination Committee Finance Director of Premier Farnell plc and Key strengths: Key achievements: partner at  LLP.
A director of the group for over 20 years and Creation of a sustainable development previously held the position of Chief Executive.
Current external appointments: and growth agenda for the group which Extensive knowledge of the business and None.
included a strategic review of growth and invaluable corporate governance oversight development opportunities at the annual gained from his involvement with many 49 3.
CHRIS GILLESPIE Corporate Planning Conference.
Overseeing the delivery of the operational MANAGING DIRECTOR Previous board & management experience: performance at CCD and Vanquis Bank.
Chief Executive of Provident Financial plc, CONSUMER CREDIT DIVISION Chairman of Huveaux plc, Chief Executive Overseeing the strengthening of the board of Brown Shipley Holdings plc, Chairman of Vanquis Bank including the recruitment Appointed to the board: 2007 of Finsbury Smaller Quoted Companies of two new independent non-executive Trust plc and Chairman of JP Morgan Committee membership: directors.
Member, Executive Committee Fleming Technology Trust plc.
Working with the Nomination Committee Key achievements: Current external appointments: on the composition of the board and the Chairman of Hyperion Insurance Group Limited development of an effective succession plan.
Developing and establishing the business effectiveness programme and Chairman of Marlin Financial Group Limited.
Previous board & management experience: for the Consumer Credit Division.
Recruiting a new cadre of senior management Current external appointments: within the Consumer Credit Division including None.
a new HR Director, Commercial Director and a Director of Field Operations.
ANDREW FISHER Creating a marketing and promotional programme for the Consumer Credit FINANCE DIRECTOR Division which included a sponsorship deal with Bradford Bulls.
Appointed to the board: 2006 Previous board & management experience: Committee membership: Director of Consumer Lending at Barclays, Member, Risk Advisory Committee Director of HFC Bank and Group Lending and Executive Committee Director at Bradford & Bingley.
Key achievements: Current external appointments: Renewing the groups 382.5m syndicated None.
Successfully launching the groups third retail bond offering raising 120m.
62 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 GOVERNANCE 48 59 54 5.
ROB ANDERSON NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Appointed to the board: 2012 Appointed to the board: 2009 Committee membership: Committee membership: Appointed to the board: 2007 Chairman, Audit Committee: Member Chairman, Risk Advisory Committee: Member, Committee membership: Remuneration Committee, Risk Advisory Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee Chairman, Remuneration Committee: Committee and Nomination Committee and Nomination Committee Member, Audit Committee, Risk Advisory Key strengths: Key strengths: Committee and Nomination Committee Extensive experience in financial services in Extensive retail experience and knowledge Key strengths: the UK and overseas, enabling him effectively of the type of consumer served by the group.
Extensive experience of Corporate Finance to challenge and significantly contribute to As a serving chief executive he has current matters, having spent 13 years in investment board discussions.
Ten years in US based operational business experience which is banking, enabling her to make a significant management consulting, 14 years as CEO or relevant to the groups businesses.
contribution to the corporate and financial equivalent in retail banking organisations and Previous board & management experience: structure of the group.
6 years on financial services boards.
Director of childrenswear business unit of Previous board & management experience: Previous board & management experience: Marks & Spencer.
Co-head of investment banking at Dresdner Chairman, GE Capital China: Chairman, GE Current external appointments: Kleinwort Wasserstein and Partner at Capital Bank UK : Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive of Signet Jewelers Limiteds Gleacher Shacklock.
of Tesco Personal Finance: Director, Virgin UK Division.
Current external appointments: Direct: Director of Retail Banking at The Royal Non-executive director of Future plc, Bank of Scotland and non-executive director 54 The Unite Group plc and Aviva Investors 8.
KEN MULLEN at Liverpool Victoria.
Current external appointments: GENERAL COUNSEL Director of Pru Health and Chairman of AND COMPANY SECRETARY Platinum Bank Kiev.
Council Member of the Royal Institute for International Affairs Appointed to the board: 2007 Chatham House.
Committee membership: Secretary to Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Risk Advisory Committee and Nomination Committee Key achievements: Responsible for the restructure of the companys defined benefit pension scheme by removing the link between benefits accrued and final salary.
Registration of the company with the Solicitors Regulation Authority enabling it to provide training contracts to trainee solicitors.
Previous board & management experience: Company Secretary and General Counsel for Premier Farnell plc, Silentnight plc and 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Whessoe plc.
Current external appointments: Chairman of Rexel UK Limited Pension Scheme.
