Governance report Governance Corporate governance Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 93 Corporate governance Good governance through leadership and accountability Paul Manduca Compliance with Corporate Governance Codes Chairman UK Corporate Governance Code and the Corporate Governance Code for Hong Kong In line with its premium and main listings on the London and Hong Kong stock exchanges, Prudential applies the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code and the Corporate Governance Code issued by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange the HK Code to its governance framework.
The Board con rms Prudential is currently in compliance with the UK Code provisions although, during the year, there was a period when the Company was without a Senior Independent Director in accordance with Code Provision A.
4.1 due to the Your Chairmans view: appointment of Paul Manduca as Chairman in July 2012.
Prudentials governance framework makes a vital Following this appointment, the search for a new Senior contribution to the long-term success of the Group.
To ensure Independent Director commenced and was successfully that our business is both successful and sustainable, the concluded with the appointment of Philip Remnant, who joined Board works closely with management in evaluating the the Board in January 2013.
Throughout the search process, the opportunities and risks we face.
We ensure that the Groups Company ensured that the non-executive directors were strategy remains appropriate and that rigorous oversight is in place across our geographically diverse business.
available for shareholders to contact should they have had any concerns and the Company believes that the governance of the The Board, which I lead, is responsible for ensuring that our Board and the Company as a whole was not adversely affected governance is strong, clear and appropriate, and plays the during the period while a successor was sought.
best possible part in supporting our business and its growth.
Like all aspects of business, governance is constantly The Board con rms that it has also complied with the HK Code evolving, and we ensure that we are well prepared for new throughout the period other than in respect of the responsibilities developments.
As well as complying with the relevant codes, of the Remuneration Committee as regards making we keep a close eye on upcoming changes to those codes, and recommendations to the Board in respect of the remuneration carry out intensive work to prepare our policies, structures of non-executive directors.
It would be inconsistent with the and procedures well in advance.
principles of the UK Code for the Remuneration Committee, We are committed to reporting on our governance in a clear which is comprised solely of non-executive directors, to be and transparent way, and will continue to ensure that our involved in the setting of their own fees.
governance is the best in its class and a central part of how we do business.
The principles of the UK and HK Codes have been applied as set out below and in the Directors remuneration report, which can be found on pages 113 to 143.
The UK Code can be viewed on the Financial Reporting Councils website, with a copy of the HK Code available on the website of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
Leadership Role of the Board The Board is accountable for the long-term success of the Group and for providing leadership within a framework of effective controls.
The control environment enables the Board to identify signi cant risks and apply appropriate measures to manage and mitigate them.
The Board is responsible for setting strategic targets and for ensuring that the Group is suitably resourced to achieve those targets.
In doing so, the Board takes account of its responsibilities to the Groups stakeholders, including the Groups employees, shareholders, suppliers and the communities in which Prudential operates.
94 Governance Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued The Board has terms of reference which speci cally set out and management of the business.
The chief executive of each matters reserved for its decision.
These are kept under regular business unit has authority for the management of that respective review and include matters such as setting the Groups strategy business unit and each has established a management board and monitoring its implementation, the approval of annual comprising its most senior executives.
budgets and business plans, as well as the risk appetite of the In performing its duties, the Board has access to the services Group and its capital and liquidity positions.
The Board has of the Group Company Secretary who advises on corporate approved a governance framework and under these procedures, governance matters, Board procedures and compliance with the all business units are required to seek approval from the Board for applicable rules and regulations.
Directors have the right to seek matters exceeding pre-determined authority limits.
The terms of independent professional advice at the Groups expense and reference are regularly reviewed and enable the Board to copies of such advice are circulated to other directors where exercise effective control over the Groups affairs.
The Board has delegated authority to a number of Board In the ordinary course of business, Board and Committee papers committees which assist the Board in delivering its are provided to the directors approximately one week in advance responsibilities and ensuring that there is appropriate of each meeting.
independent oversight of internal control and risk management.
Each of these committees has established terms of reference and Powers of the Board is comprised of independent non-executive directors, with the The Board may exercise all powers conferred on it by the exception of the Nomination Committee which, in keeping with Companys Articles of Association and the Companies Act 2006. the provisions of UK Code, is chaired by the Chairman.
This includes the powers of the Company to borrow money and The Board has also delegated authority for the operational to mortgage or charge any of its assets subject to the limitations management of the Groups businesses to the Group Chief set out in the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles Executive for execution or further delegation by him in respect of of Association and to give a guarantee, security or indemnity in matters which are necessary for the effective day-to-day running respect of a debt or other obligation of the Company.
Table 1 Board Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Risk scheduled additional Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 10 7 12 5 9 5 Chairman 1 Harvey McGrath retired 2 July 2012 5 5 2 2,3 Paul Manduca appointed 2 July 2012 9 6 5 3 8 Executive directors Tidjane Thiam 10 7 Nic Nicandrou 10 6 Rob Devey 10 7 John Foley 10 7 Michael McLintock 9 6 Barry Stowe 10 4 Mike Wells 10 4 Non-executive directors Keki Dadiseth 9 3 4 4 Howard Davies 10 5 12 2 5 Michael Garrett 10 6 5 4 Ann Godbehere 10 7 12 2 5 Alistair Johnston 10 7 12 6 Kai Nargolwala 10 6 5 4 Kathleen O'Donovan retired 31 March 2012 1 1 3 4 7 Lord Turnbull 10 7 5 9 5 Notes 1 Harvey McGrath did not attend Nomination Committee meetings when it dealt with the appointment of the successor to his Chairmanship, in accordance with the UK Code.
2 Paul Manduca was the Senior Independent Director and attended all scheduled Audit and Remuneration Committee meetings prior to his appointment as Chairman on 2 July 2012.
3 Paul Manduca missed one Nomination Committee meeting and one additional Board meeting due to a confl ict of interest.
4 Appointed as members of the Nomination Committee on 2 July 2012.
5 There was one additional Remuneration Committee meeting and two additional Risk Committee meetings during the year.
6 Kai Nargolwala was unable to attend one additional Risk Committee meeting and one additional Remuneration Committee meeting.
7 Lord Turnbull was unable to attend one additional Risk Committee meeting.
Governance report Governance Corporate governance Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 95 Chairman Meetings The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate During 2012, the Board met on 10 scheduled occasions and held and clearly fide ned.
The scope of these roles is approved and seven additional meetings.
A separate off-site strategy event was kept under regular review by the Board so that no individual also held.
A detailed forward agenda has been in operation for has unfettered decision-making powers.
a number of years and this is kept updated to re ect not only regular items of business but also any topical matters arising The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and governance during the year.
of the Board, and ensuring that suf cient time is available for discussion of all agenda items.
The Chairman also facilitates the Given the geographical spread of the Groups business, at least contribution of the non-executive directors and constructive one board meeting a year is held overseas at one of the Groups relationships between the non-executive and executive directors business operations.
These meetings facilitate a fuller by promoting a culture of openness and debate.
understanding of operations in that jurisdiction and provide an opportunity for the directors to meet with senior members of the Harvey McGrath retired as Chairman of the Board in July 2012 management teams in those countries.
The overseas meeting for and was succeeded by Paul Manduca.
The Board was satis ed that during 2012 the Chairmans external Where a director was unable to attend board meetings, their commitments did not hinder the day-to-day performance of his views were canvassed by the Chairman prior to the meeting.
duties for Prudential and that he had the commitment and capability to make himself available under unforeseen During the year, the Chairman met with the non-executive circumstances.
The major commitments of the Chairman, directors without the executive directors being present on four including changes during the year where applicable, are occasions.
detailed in his biography on page 88.
Table 1 on page 94 details the number of board and committee meetings attended by each director during the year.
Chief Executive The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the management Eff ectiveness of the Group and the implementation of the strategy and policy Composition approved by the Board.
In discharging his responsibilities, the At the date of this report, the Board comprised the Chairman, Group Chief Executive is advised and assisted by the Group seven executive directors and eight independent non-executive Executive Committee which comprises business unit heads directors.
and a Group Head Of ce team of functional specialists.
On 1 January 2012, Kai Nargolwala and Alistair Johnston joined Senior Independent Director the Board as non-executive directors.
Kathleen ODonovan Paul Manduca was the Senior Independent Director until July retired as a non-executive director on 31 March 2012.
Harvey 2012 when he succeeded Harvey McGrath as Chairman of the McGrath retired as a director on 2 July 2012 and was succeeded Board.
The Nomination Committee concluded its search for a as Chairman by Paul Manduca.
Philip Remnant was appointed as suitable replacement in December 2012, with the appointment the Senior Independent Director with effect from 1 January 2013. of Philip Remnant.
Philips appointment became effective on The biographies of all current directors are set out on pages 88 1 January 2013. to 92.
The Senior Independent Director is responsible for maintaining The Board, or the members in a general meeting, may appoint contact with shareholders with a view to understanding their directors up to a maximum total number of 20 as set out in the concerns and issues, as well as providing ongoing support to Companys Articles of Association.
The removal and resignation the Chairman and acting as an intermediary for the other of the Companys directors is governed by the relevant provisions non-executive directors if required.
The Senior Independent of the Companies Act 2006, the UK and HK Codes and the Director is accessible to all stakeholders, including debt Companys Articles of Association.
investors, particularly if they have concerns and where contact through the normal channels may have failed or would be inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director is also responsible for leading the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
96 Governance Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued Terms of appointment for non-executive directors Independence Non-executive directors are usually appointed for an initial The independence of the non-executive directors is determined three-year term commencing with their election by shareholders with reference to the UK and HK Codes.
Prudential is required to at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment af rm annually the independence of all non-executive directors by the Board and are subject to annual re-election by under the Hong Kong Listing Rules and also the independence shareholders.
Each appointment is reviewed towards the end of of its Audit Committee members under the Sarbanes-Oxley the three-year term against performance and the requirements of legislation.
The Board has appropriate processes in place to the Groups businesses.
The terms and conditions of all directors manage any potential con icts of interest.
appointments are available for inspection at the Companys Throughout the year the non-executive directors were registered of ce during normal business hours and at the Annual considered by the Board to be independent in character and General Meeting.
judgement and met the provisions for independence as set out in Non-executive directors are typically expected to serve for two the UK and HK Codes.
The Company has received con rmation terms of three years from their initial election by shareholders of independence from each of the independent non-executive although the Board may invite them to serve for an additional directors as required by the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
Non-executive directors serving a third term are subject Paul Manduca succeeded Harvey McGrath as Chairman in to rigorous annual review.
July 2012 and is considered to have met the independence requirements of the UK Code on appointment.
As the ongoing Re-election test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Directors appointed to the Board since the 2012 Annual Chairman under the UK Code, and to ensure a consistent General Meeting will stand for election for the first time and, approach in how the Chairman is described in all corporate in accordance with the provisions of the UK Code, all other communications, the Chairman has not been asked to provide serving directors will offer themselves for re-election at the con rmation of his independence for the purposes of the Hong Annual General Meeting to be held on 16 May 2013.
The Board Kong Listing Rules for the financial year 2012 and will not be believes that the non-executive directors bring a wide range asked to do so in future.
of business, financial and international experience to the Board and its committees.
Keki Dadiseth and Barry Stowe serve as non-executive directors of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, an Indian Succession planning company which is owned 26 per cent by Prudential.
In addition, The Board is actively engaged in succession planning for Keki serves, at Prudentials request, as a non-executive director both executive and non-executive roles to ensure that Board of ICICI Prudential Trust Limited, an Indian company which is composition is regularly refreshed and that the Board retains its owned 49 per cent by Prudential.
The Board does not consider effectiveness at all times.
This is delivered through an established that these appointments in any way affect Kekis status as an review process that is applied across all businesses and covers independent director of Prudential.
both director and senior management succession and Alistair Johnston was a partner in the Companys auditor, KPMG, development and also through the work of the Nomination from 1986 to 2010.
However, he did not audit the Prudential Committee as described more fully on page 103.
The Board Group and he no longer has any financial or other interest in considers annually the outcome of the review and actions arising KPMG.
The Board does not consider that this former relationship from the review are implemented as part of the management with KPMG affects Alistairs status as an independent director development agenda.
Diversity Prudential is one of the UKs largest institutional investors and The Group seeks, through its diversity policy, to encourage the Board does not believe that this situation compromises the the recruitment and retention of talented women at all levels.
independence of those non-executive directors who are on the Furthermore, the Board remains committed to inclusion in all its boards of companies in which the Group has a shareholding.
The forms and believes that leading companies seek out, and not Board also believes that such shareholdings should not preclude simply tolerate, diversity.
the Company from having the most appropriate and highest calibre non-executive directors.
The inclusion of women extends to the Board and is an important consideration during searches for new Board members.
Prudential embraces the proposition that more women on boards would be advantageous to companies as well as to society at large.
The Group remains duty-bound to recruit the best available talent, and although the Board does not endorse quotas, it does commit to having an increasing representation of women in senior positions in the Group and on the Board.
Governance report Governance Corporate governance Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 97 Induction and development Performance evaluation The Group Company Secretary supports the Chairman in In respect of 2011, there was a formal and rigorous review of providing tailored induction programmes for new directors the Board, its Committees and their effectiveness which was and ongoing development for all directors.
On appointment all undertaken by an external consultancy.
Areas of improvement directors embark upon a wide-ranging induction programme were identi ed and good progress was made against these covering, amongst other things, the principal bases of during the course of 2012. accounting for the Groups results, the role of the Board and In respect of 2012, the review was carried out internally and its key committees and the ambit of the internal audit and risk was facilitated by the Group Company Secretary.
In addition, they receive detailed was conducted using a combination of face-to-face meetings and brie ngs on the Groups principal businesses, its product range, questionnaires, and the findings will be presented to the Board the markets in which it operates and the overall competitive in March 2013.
Opportunities to improve Board performance environment.
These sessions are facilitated through meetings will be documented and an action plan for 2013 agreed.
with executive management and other senior members of the management team.
Other areas addressed include the directors The performance of the non-executive directors and the Group obligations under the different listing regimes, legal issues Chief Executive is evaluated by the Chairman in individual affecting directors of financial services companies, the Groups meetings.
The Senior Independent Director leads the governance arrangements and its investor relations programme, non-executive directors in a performance evaluation as well as its remuneration policies.
Throughout their period in of ce, directors are regularly updated Executive directors are subject to regular review and the Group on the Groups businesses and the regulatory and industry-speci c Chief Executive individually appraises the performance of each environments in which it operates as well as on their legal and of the executive directors as part of the annual Group-wide other duties and obligations as directors where appropriate.
The performance evaluation of all staff.
scope of these updates is reviewed in line with the requirements of the business and can be in the form of written reports to the Confl icts of interest Board, or presentations by senior executives or by external Directors have a statutory duty to avoid con icts of interest with advisers where appropriate.
In order to enhance their knowledge the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association allow the and effectiveness throughout their term in of ce, non-executive directors to authorise con icts of interest and the Board has directors serving on key committees are updated regularly adopted a policy and effective procedures to manage and, where on matters speci c to the relevant committee and receive appropriate, approve con icts or potential con icts of interest.
presentations from senior executives on topics of interest Under these procedures directors are required to declare all to them.
directorships or other appointments to companies which are not part of the Group as well as other situations which could result in Ongoing professional development was undertaken by all con icts or could give rise to a potential con ict.
This included a number of sector-speci c Committee, or the Board where appropriate, evaluates and and business issues as well as legal, accounting and regulatory approves each such situation individually where applicable.
changes and developments, and covered an update on key changes applicable to companies listed on the Hong Kong Stock Directors interests Exchange.
A number of business unit chief executive of cers Individual directors interests are set out on page 133 of the together with relevant senior executives gave presentations to Directors remuneration report.
the Board during the course of the year on the challenges and opportunities currently faced by their business unit.
In addition, senior managers within certain head of ce functions presented to the Board on the key issues currently facing their function and directors received brie ngs on Solvency II.
Members of the Audit Committee have the option to attend meetings of the business unit audit committees to aid their understanding of topical matters of interest to them and how they are handled by the Group.
Non-executive directors have also received updates and brie ngs relevant to their duties as directors of a company listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
98 Governance Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued External appointments Accountability Directors may hold directorships or other signi cant interests Internal control and risk management in companies outside the Group which may have business The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal relationships with the Group.
control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The framework setting out the Groups approach to internal Non-executive directors may serve on a number of other boards control, risk management and corporate responsibility comprises provided that they are able to demonstrate satisfactory time the following: commitment to their role at Prudential and that they discuss any new appointment with the Chairman prior to accepting.
This Group governance framework: Documents the Groups internal ensures that they do not compromise their independence and control policies and processes in an online manual, including the that any potential con icts of interest and any possible issues Groups risk framework, code of business conduct and detailed arising out of the time commitments required by the new role policies on key operational and financial risks.
Business units are can be identi ed and addressed appropriately.
The major also required to follow any additional processes necessary to commitments of our non-executive directors are detailed in comply with local statutory and regulatory requirements.
their biographies set out on pages 90 to 92.
Group risk framework: Provides an overview of the Group-wide Executive directors may accept external directorships and philosophy and approach to risk management and sets out the retain any fees earned from those directorships subject to prior key risk management processes which support the Groups discussion with the Group Chief Executive and always provided compliance with internal, statutory and regulatory requirements.
this does not lead to any con icts of interest.
In line with the UK Corporate responsibility framework: Provides an overview Code, executive directors would be expected to hold no more of the Group-wide philosophy and approach to corporate than one non-executive directorship, nor the chairmanship, of responsibility: supports the Groups commercial focus and the a FTSE 100 company.
Some of our executive directors hold increasing challenges faced including changes in stakeholder directorships or trustee positions of unquoted companies or expectations.
A key element is the Group Code of Business institutions.
Details of any fees retained are included in the Conduct which sets out the ethical standards the Board requires Directors remuneration report on page 131 and major of itself, employees, agents and others working on behalf of the commitments of our executive directors are detailed in their Group, in their dealings with employees, customers, biographies on pages 88 to 90. shareholders, suppliers, and competitors, in the wider community and in respect of the environment.
Directors indemnities and protections Suitable insurance cover is in place in respect of legal action The governance framework principally relates to the against directors and senior managers of companies within the operational management of the Groups businesses and Prudential Group.
Protection for directors, and certain senior includes pre-determined authority limits delegated by the managers, of companies within the Group, against personal Board in respect of matters which are necessary for the effective financial exposure which may be incurred in their capacity as day-to-day running and management of the business.
These include qualifying third party The system is regularly reviewed and complies with the UK and indemnity provisions as fide ned by the Companies Act 2006 for HK Codes, as well as the relevant provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley.
the bene t of directors of Prudential plc and other such persons In complying with the UK Code, the Group follows the 2005 including, where applicable, in their capacity as directors of other Turnbull Guidance relating to the sections of the Code dealing companies within the Group.
These indemnities were in force with risk management and internal control.
The Board during 2012 and remain in force.
reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control In addition, the Articles of Association of the Company permit the in February 2013, covering all material controls, including directors and of cers of the Company to be indemni ed in financial, operational and compliance controls, risk management respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their of ce.
systems and the adequacy of the resources, quali cations and experience of staff of the Groups accounting and financial reporting function.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and gives reasonable, but not absolute, assurance.
The Board con rms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant risks faced by the Group, which has been in place throughout the period and up to the date of this report.
Governance report Governance Corporate governance Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 99 The chief executive and chief financial of cer of each business The Business Review provides further detail on Prudentials unit, as well as the senior management in Group Head Of ce, risk appetite and exposures on pages 68 to 78 and corporate annually certify compliance with the Groups governance, responsibility activities on pages 79 to 85. internal control and risk management requirements.
The risk Further details on the procedures for the management of risk and management function reviewed any matters identi ed by the the systems of internal control operated by the Group are given certi cation process, and also assessed the risk and control in the section on Risk Governance on pages 105 and 106. issues that arose and were reported during the year.
This included routine and exception-based risk reporting, matters The internal control and risk management systems described identi ed and reported by other Group Head Of ce oversight above and also under the sections on Risk Governance on page 105 functions and the findings from the work of the internal audit and the Audit Committee on page 101, cover the Companys function, which executes risk-based audit plans throughout financial reporting process and the Groups process for the the Group.
The results were reported to and reviewed by the preparation of consolidated financial statements.
Committees In line with the Turnbull Guidance, the certi cation provided The Board has established Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and above does not apply to certain material joint ventures where Risk Committees as principal standing committees of the Board.
the Group does not exercise full management control.
In these Each committee has written terms of reference which are kept cases, the Group satis es itself that suitable governance and risk under regular review.
These committees are key elements of the management arrangements are in place to protect the Groups Groups corporate governance framework and reports on each interests.
However, the relevant Group company which is party committee are included below.
to the joint venture must, in respect of any services it provides in support of the joint venture, comply with the requirements of the Groups internal governance framework.
Our committee structure Prudential plc Board of directors Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Risk Committee Nomination Committee Group Chief Executive Group Executive Committee Management Committees 100 Governance Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued Audit Committee report Membership The Audit Committee the Committee is comprised of the Ann Godbehere independent non-executive directors as set out below: Chairman of the Audit Committee A A A A A A A A A A A A Ann Godbehere Chairman A A A A A A A A A A A A Sir Howard Davies A A A A A A A A A A A A Alistair Johnston A A A A A A A A A A A A Paul Manduca to 2 July 2012 A A A A A A A A A A A A Kathleen ODonovan to 31 March 2012 A A A A A A A A A A A A Philip Remnant from 1 January 2013 The membership is selected to provide a broad range of financial, commercial and other experience relevant to meet the The Committees responsibilities consist of oversight over Committees objectives.
fi financial reporting, the eff ectiveness of the internal control systems and monitoring auditor independence.
Its duties In performing its duties, the Committee has access to employees include gaining assurance on the control over fi financial and their financial or other relevant expertise across the Group processes and the integrity of the Groups fi financial reports, and to the services of the Group-wide Internal Audit Director and monitoring the performance, objectivity and independence the Group Company Secretary.
The Committee may also seek of the external auditor, reviewing the work of the internal external professional advice at the Companys expense.
auditor and providing oversight to the Group Compliance function.
The Board has determined that Ann Godbehere, the Committee Chairman, has recent and relevant financial experience in respect During 2012, the Audit Committee continued to focus on of the financial reporting period under review and for the ensuring the Groups fi financial reporting remained clear, purposes of the UK Code and the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
In robust and informative, and continued to work closely with the Risk Committee to ensure an integrated approach March 2012, the Board designated Ann Godbehere as its audit to risk assurance and risk management was achieved.
The committee financial expert for Sarbanes-Oxley Act purposes.
Committee met regularly with the Group-wide Internal Audit This will be reviewed during 2013 in conjunction with the Director and the Audit Partner from the external auditor.
The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to: Full biographical details of the members of the Committee are set A A A A A A A A A A A A A monitor the integrity of the fi financial statements, out on pages 88 to 92. including the review of half and full-year results, the annual report and accounts and other signifi cant fi financial Meetings announcements and review the critical accounting The Committee meets at least five times a year and gives policies and key judgmental areas contained therein: consideration to the financial statements of the Group and the A A A A A A A A A A A A A monitor the framework and eff ectiveness of the Groups Groups system of internal control, as well as its internal and systems of internal control, including the Turnbull external audit providers.
The Chairman of the Committee is a compliance statement and Sarbanes-Oxley procedures: member of the Risk Committee and works closely with that A A A A A A A A A A A A A monitor auditor independence and the external auditors committee in ful lling the Audit Committees responsibilities.
plans and audit strategy, the eff ectiveness of the external By invitation, the Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief audit process, the external auditors qualifi cations, Executive, the Chief Financial Of cer, the Group Chief Risk expertise and resources, and make recommendations for the re-appointment of the external auditor: Of cer and the Group General Counsel, as well as other senior staff from the Group finance, internal audit, risk, compliance and A A A A A A A A A A A A A review the internal audit plan and resources, and monitor security functions attended the meetings to contribute to the the audit framework and eff ectiveness of the internal audit discussions relating to their respective areas of expertise.
The function: lead and other partners of the external auditor also attended the A A A A A A A A A A A A A monitor the eff ectiveness of compliance processes and meetings.
controls, and performance against the Group Compliance Plan: During 2012, the Committee held 12 scheduled meetings and A A A A A A A A A A A A A review the anti-money laundering procedures in place, details of Committee members attendance is set out on page 94. as well as the review of procedures operated for handling A detailed forward agenda has been in operation for a number of allegations from whistleblowers: and years and is reviewed and updated regularly to ensure all matters A A A A A A A A A A A A A review the eff ectiveness of the business unit audit for which the Committee is responsible are addressed at the committees.
The Audit Committee has received balanced and timely information over the course of the year which has enabled it to provide eff ective oversight of the Groups key fi financial reporting risks and internal controls.
Governance report Governance Corporate governance Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 101 The Committee also received in-depth presentations on a resources.
During the year the business unit audit committees range of topics and received the minutes of both the Disclosure reviewed their respective internal audit plans, resources and Committee and the Assumptions Approval Committee.
Further the results of internal audit work, and both external and internal information on the Disclosure Committee appears under the auditors were able to discuss any relevant matters with the heading US corporate governance and regulations on page 109.
Chairman and members of the Committee as required.
The Assumptions Approval Committee reviews the economic assumptions to be used for EEV reporting, business planning, Eff ectiveness of business unit audit committees forecasting and the IAS 19 valuation of the three UK fide ned Group-wide Internal Audit has reviewed the effectiveness bene t pension schemes.
Further information on risk governance of each business unit audit committee using an established appears on pages 105 and 106 respectively.
The evaluation comprises an annual review questionnaire which is divided into speci c areas for appraisal The Committee Chairman reported to the Board on matters of and a walk through of each committees terms of reference, particular signi cance after each meeting and the minutes were assessing whether these are appropriate for the business unit circulated to all Board members.
The terms of reference for the and if the committee has ful lled its responsibilities under the Committee are kept under regular review and are updated where terms.
A memorandum summarising the findings of the review, required.
A copy of these can be found on the Companys website.
as well as any action points, is compiled for each business unit The Committee recognises the need to meet without the audit committee.
Such sessions were held The findings were reviewed by the Group-wide Internal Audit with the external auditor in July and October 2012, and with the business unit audit director in conjunction with the Chairman and internal auditor in July 2012.
At all other times management and discussed by the respective business unit audit committees.
In auditors had open access to the Chairman and the Committee.
addition, the Chairman of each business unit audit committee has con rmed that, in their opinion, the current members have the Financial reporting appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and expertise to oversee The Committee is regularly briefed by management on the relevant business unit.
developments in International Financial Reporting Standards and focussed on the critical accounting policies and practices as part On completion of the review, Group-wide Internal Audit of its review of financial statements prior to recommending their concluded that the overall arrangements for the business unit publication to the Board.
The Committee also reviewed any audit committees remained appropriate for the nature and changes or decisions requiring a major element of judgement, purpose of each business unit and that each business unit audit unusual transactions, clarity of disclosures, signi cant audit committee continued to meet the responsibilities as set out in adjustments of which there were none in 2012, the going their respective terms of reference.
concern assumption, compliance with accounting standards, and compliance with obligations under applicable laws, Internal control and risk management regulations and governance codes.
The Committee reviewed the Groups statement on internal control systems prior to its endorsement by the Board.
Confi dential reporting Pursuant to the requirements of Section 404 of the A standing agenda item of the Committee is to review a report Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Group undertakes an annual on the use of the con dential reporting procedures, which are assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over available to employees to enable them to communicate financial reporting.
Further details are provided below.
con dentially, and anonymously if they so wish, on matters of concern and actions taken in response to these communications.
Group-wide Internal Audit No material control implications were raised through these The Committee regards its relationship with the internal audit procedures during the year.
function as pivotal to the effectiveness of its own activities.
Group-wide Internal Audit plays an important role in supporting Business unit audit committees the Committee to ful l its responsibilities under the UK and HK Every business unit has its own audit committee which provides Codes, as well as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and provides oversight to the respective business unit and reports any relevant independent assurance on the Groups processes of matters to the Committee.
The members and chairmen are identi cation and control of risk.
Each of the Groups business comprised primarily of senior management who are independent units has an internal audit team, the heads of which report to the of the respective business unit.
The minutes of these committees Group-wide Internal Audit Director.
Internal audit resources, are reported regularly to the Committee and their meetings are plans and work are overseen by the Committee and by the attended by senior management of the respective business unit, business unit audit committees.
Total approved internal audit including the business units heads of finance, risk, compliance headcount across the Group was 148 at 31 December 2012. and Group-wide internal audit.
The Group-wide Internal Audit Director reports functionally to the Committee and for management purposes to the Business unit audit committees have adopted standard terms of Chief Financial Of cer.
reference across the Group with minor variations to address local requirements or particular requirements of the business.
The terms of reference of those committees were reviewed during the year and all include escalation of signi cant matters to the Committee, recommendations for approval of the business unit internal audit plans and overseeing the adequacy of internal audit 102 Governance Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the internal Independence Policy, all services were approved prior to work audit function by means of regular reviews, some of which commencing and each of the non-audit services was con rmed are carried out by external advisers, and through ongoing to be permissible for the external auditor to undertake as fide ned dialogue with the Group-wide Internal Audit Director.
A further by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Committee reviewed the external effectiveness review of Group-wide Internal Audit was non-audit services provided to the Group by KPMG at regular undertaken in quarter four 2012, the findings of which were intervals during 2012.
These included tax services, due diligence reported to the Committee in detail in February 2013.
The services, attestation reports on internal controls not required by purpose of the review was to ensure that the activities and legislation, agreed-upon procedures, other reports, certi cations resources of internal audit continue to be effectively organised and examinations required by regulators, risk and compliance to support the oversight responsibilities of the Committee.
work, advising on accounting standards and regulatory rules and The review, performed by , provision of comfort letters.
A summary of fees payable to the con rmed that Group-wide Internal Audit continued to auditor for the year ended 31 December 2012 is provided in remain in general conformance with the Institute of Internal note I6 to the Group financial statements.
Auditors IIA International Standards with no material exceptions and demonstrated a noted enhancement of Auditor performance and independence GwIA processes and practices, since the last review in 2011.
The Committee assessed the performance, as well as the independence and objectivity, of the external auditor and The Committee approved the Group-wide Internal Audit annual the effectiveness of the audit process.
The review of the audit plan of assurance work to be undertaken during 2013. effectiveness of the external audit process was conducted through a questionnaire-based exercise administered by Group Compliance Group Finance.
The Committee receives regular reports from Group Compliance, who are responsible for assessing the risks posed to the Group as The Committee also reviewed the external audit strategy a result of non-compliance with relevant regulations, including and received reports from the auditor on its own policies and those in respect of anti-money laundering and sanctions.
Each procedures regarding independence and quality control, business unit has its own compliance function, and the role of including an annual con rmation of its independence in line Group Compliance is to assess the effectiveness of these with industry standards.
functions, as well as to provide oversight and support in the identi cation, mitigation and reporting of regulatory risks arising Re-appointment of auditor from both current business activities and from changes in the The Group operates a policy under which at least once every five regulatory environment.
years a formal review is undertaken by the Committee to assess whether the external audit should be re-tendered.
The external During 2012, the Committee reviewed and approved the target audit was last put out to competitive tender in 1999 when the operating model, as well as the plan of work to be undertaken present auditor was appointed.
Since 2005 the Committee has by Group Compliance during 2013. annually considered the need to re-tender the external audit service and it again considered this in February 2012, concluding External audit that there was nothing in the performance of the auditor which The Committee has a key oversight role in relation to the required a change.
external auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, whose primary relationship is with the Committee.
The Group has established an Auditor In line with the Auditing Practices Board Ethical Statements Independence Policy which ensures that the independence and and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the lead audit partner who was objectivity of the external auditor is not impaired.
The four key appointed by KPMG Audit Plc in 2007, was replaced by a new principles of the policy underpin the provision of non-audit lead audit partner in respect of the 2012 financial year.
services by the external auditor, namely that the auditor should Following its review of the external auditors effectiveness and not audit its own rms work, make management decisions for the independence, the Committee has recommended to the Board Group, have a mutuality of financial interest with the Group, or be that KPMG Audit Plc be re-appointed as auditor of the Company put in the role of advocate for the Group.
and a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as All services provided by the auditor under this policy are auditor of the Company will be put to a shareholder vote at the provided in accordance with a pre-approved budget and are Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2013. reviewed by the Committee and approved where necessary.
The Committee regularly reviews and updates the policy to Review of Committee eff ectiveness ensure alignment with the latest standards and best practice in The effectiveness of the Committee was reviewed as part of the establishing, maintaining and monitoring auditor independence internally facilitated review of the Board and its committees.
findings will be discussed by the Board in March 2013.
The Committee is satis ed, taking into account the findings of Fees payable to the auditor the internal review, that it had been operating as an effective For the year ended 31 December 2012 the Committee approved audit committee throughout the year.
Further reviews of the fees payable of 14.3 million to its auditor, KPMG Audit Plc.
effectiveness of the Committee will be undertaken regularly and Within this total, the Committee approved fees payable of will, from time to time, be conducted by external consultants.
2.6 million to KPMG for services not related to audit work which accounted for 18 per cent of total fees payable to the external auditor in the year.
In accordance with the Groups Auditor Governance report Governance Corporate governance Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 103 Nomination Committee report Membership The Nomination Committee the Committee is comprised of the Paul Manduca Chairman and the independent non-executive directors as set Chairman of the out below: Nomination Committee A A A A A A A A A A A A A Harvey McGrath Chairman to 2 July 2012 A A A A A A A A A A A A A Paul Manduca Chairman from 2 July 2012 A A A A A A A A A A A A A Sir Howard Davies from 2 July 2012 A A A A A A A A A A A A A Ann Godbehere from 2 July 2012 A A A A A A A A A A A A A Kathleen ODonovan to 31 March 2012 A A A A A A A A A A A A A Philip Remnant from 1 January 2013 A A A A A A A A A A A A A Lord Turnbull In performing its duties, the Committee has access to the services The Nomination Committee plays a leading role in assessing of the Group Company Secretary.
The Committee may also seek the balance of skills and experience on the Board and the external professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Committee identifi es the roles and capabilities required to meet the demands of the Full biographical details of the members of the Committee are set business and, with due regard to diversity, ensures that out on pages 88 to 92. suitable succession planning is in place.
Candidates continue to be considered on merit against specifi c criteria determined Meetings by the Committee.
The Committee meets at least twice a year to consider the Board The Committee also reviews confl icts of interest or potential composition and membership of the principal Committees and confl icts of interest raised by directors between Board to consider the suitability of all directors standing for re-election meetings and for prospective Board members.
In addition, the Committee meets to consider there might be an actual or potential confl ict of interest the candidates for appointment to the Board.
The Group Chief Committee has powers to authorise any such actual or Executive is closely involved in the work of the Committee and is potential confl ict situation on behalf of the Board, imposing invited to attend and contribute to meetings.
By invitation, the any terms and conditions it deems appropriate, or to make Group HR Director also attends the meetings.
recommendations to the Board as to whether the confl ict or potential confl ict should be authorised and if any specifi c The Committee met on nine occasions during 2012 and details terms should be included in the authorisation.
of Committee members attendance is set out on page 94.
During 2012, the Committee, under the leadership of As part of the process for appointing any new director, Lord Turnbull, led the search for a new Chairman and, once the Chairman had been appointed, embarked on the search the Committee gives consideration to the balance of skills, for a Senior Independent Director led by the Chairman.
experience and knowledge on the Board and, in light of this evaluation, prepares a description of the role and capabilities The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to: required for a particular appointment, as well as the expected A A A A A A A A A A A A A review the size, structure and composition of the Board, time commitment.
Appointments are made based on merit, including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity against objective criteria set by the Committee.
of Board members, and make recommendations to the Board with regard to changes: The focus of the Committee during the year was the search for a new Chairman and a replacement for the role of the Senior A A A A A A A A A A A A A identify and nominate candidates for appointment to the Board, based on merit and against objective criteria: Independent Director.
Harvey McGrath, the retiring Chairman, was not involved in the selection or appointment of the new A A A A A A A A A A A A A make recommendations to the membership of the audit, Chairman, a process which was led by Lord Turnbull.
Once this risk, remuneration and nomination committees in appointment had been made, the Committee, led by Paul consultation with the Chairmen of those committees: and Manduca, initiated the process for nding a Senior Independent A A A A A A A A A A A A A consider and, where necessary, authorise any actual or Director.
The Committee used the services of Spencer Stuart, potential situational confl icts, upon such terms and Korn Ferry International and Ridgeway Partners, executive conditions as the Committee considered appropriate, search agencies to facilitate both of these searches.
None of arising out of a proposed new appointment, the changed circumstances of an existing appointment or that of a these rms undertook any other signi cant projects for the Group.
The effectiveness of the Committee was reviewed as part of The Committee will continue to review the time commitment the internally facilitated review of the Board and its committees.
required from each of our non-executive directors and, going The findings will be discussed by the Board in March 2013. into 2013, the Committee will continue to review and refresh the skills required to pursue our strategic objectives The Chairman reported to the Board on matters of particular successfully.
signi cance after each meeting.
The terms of reference for the Committee are kept under regular review and are updated where required.
A copy of these can be found on the Groups website.
104 Governance Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued Risk Committee report Membership The Risk Committee the Committee is comprised of the Sir Howard Davies independent non-executive directors as set out below: Chairman of the Risk Committee A A A A A A A A A A A A Sir Howard Davies Chairman A A A A A A A A A A A A Ann Godbehere A A A A A A A A A A A A Kai Nargolwala A A A A A A A A A A A A Lord Turnbull In performing its duties, the Committee has access to the Group Chief Risk Of cer and the services of the Group Company Secretary.
The Committee may seek external professional advice at the Companys expense.
Full biographical details of the members of the Committee are set The Risk Committee continued its work during 2012 with the out on pages 91 to 92. specifi c objectives of furthering the in depth understanding of the risks facing the business and enhancing the risk Meetings reporting framework with a view to ensuring that the various The Committee meets at least four times a year to consider the stakeholders received both timely and suitable information Groups risk appetite and provide oversight to the management around risk exposures.
The Chairman of the Committee is a The Committee provides leadership, direction and oversight member of the Audit Committee and works closely with that in relation to the Groups overall risk appetite and tolerance committee in ful lling the Risk Committees responsibilities.
and the risk management framework.
Oversight of the framework includes reviewing the Groups risk policies and The Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief Executive, the standards, supporting risk limits, methodologies adopted and Chief Financial Of cer, the Group Chief Risk Of cer, Group-wide the processes and controls in place for assessing the Groups Internal Audit Director, the Group General Counsel and the risks.
During the year the Committee carried out an in depth Group Risk Directors are invited to attend the meetings.
review of a number of policies and other components forming part of the overall Group Risk Framework and recommended During 2012, the Committee held five scheduled meetings and improvements to the Board, providing eff ective oversight details of Committee members attendance is set out on page 94. with regard to the Groups risk appetite, tolerance and risk The Committee undertook the identi cation and comprehensive management framework.
The Committee also provides analysis of the Groups key risks and approved the enhancements oversight in respect of the Group Chief Risk Offi cers responsibilities.
to the management information provided to the Group Risk Committees and the Board.
The Committee further received The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to: presentations from certain of the business units on the particular A A A A A A A A A A A A A review the Group risk, capital and liquidity management risks inherent in those businesses, as well as the systems and framework, as well as the Groups risk appetite, its risk controls in place to monitor and manage those risks.
The policies and standards, including the parameters used and Committee approved and subsequently reviewed the process for methodologies and processes adopted for identifying and approving large credit risk exposures: it also approved a framework assessing risks: which provides separate limits for global counterparties in respect A A A A A A A A A A A A A review the material and emerging risk exposures of the of counterparty risk exposures.
The Committee also reviewed the Group, including market, credit, insurance, operational, Group-wide risk appetite framework, including risk appetite liquidity and economic and regulatory capital risks as well statements and limits by risk type.
The Committee worked closely as regulatory and compliance matters: with the Audit Committee to ensure any risk assurance relevant to A A A A A A A A A A A A A oversee the Groups processes and policies for determining financial reporting was referred to the Audit Committee and with risk tolerance and reviewing managements measurement the Remuneration Committee on providing input in respect of risk and eff ectiveness of the Groups risk tolerance levels: adjustment measures for the executive remuneration policy.
In A A A A A A A A A A A A A receive and review Group-wide Internal Audit reports on addition, the role of the Committee includes responding to the the risk management function: needs of the business and carrying out reviews of speci c areas of A A A A A A A A A A A A A assist the Board in reviewing the risks inherent in the risk as they arise.
The Committee worked closely with business plans: and management and the Group-wide Internal Audit Director during the year and assisted the Board by providing oversight over A A A A A A A A A A A A A provide qualitative and quantitative advice to the Remuneration Committee on risk weightings applied requests for speci c risk assessments.
to performance objectives incorporated in executive The Chairman reviewed the work of the Committee and the Groups remuneration and evaluate whether the remuneration risk framework as part of the ongoing dialogue with the regulator.
approach for senior executives was positioned within the Groups overall risk appetite framework.
The effectiveness of the Committee was reviewed as part of The Committee also continued to build synergies with the the internally facilitated review of the Board and its committees.
Audit Committee, to ensure that areas of overlap were The findings will be discussed by the Board in March 2013. managed appropriately.
The Committee Chairman reported to the Board on matters of signi cance after each meeting.
Governance report Governance Risk governance Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 105 Risk governance Principles and objectives In keeping with this philosophy, the Group has five objectives Risk is fide ned as the uncertainty that Prudential faces in for risk and capital management which are as follows: successfully implementing its strategies and objectives.
Framework: to design, implement and maintain a capital This includes all internal or external events, acts or omissions management and risk oversight framework, which is consistent that have the potential to threaten the success and survival with the Groups risk appetite and philosophy towards risk taking: of Prudential.
Monitoring: to establish a no surprises risk management culture The control procedures and systems established within the by identifying the risk landscape, assessing and monitoring risk Group are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk exposures and understanding change drivers: of failure to meet business objectives.
They can only provide Control: to implement suitable risk mitigation strategies and reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss and focus on aligning the levels of remedial actions where exposures are deemed inappropriate, and to manage the response to potentially extreme events: risk-taking with the achievement of business objectives.
Material risks will only be retained where this is consistent with Communication: to effectively communicate the Group risk, Prudentials risk appetite framework and its philosophy towards capital and pro tability position to both internal and external risk-taking.
The Groups current approach is to retain such risks stakeholders: and where doing so contributes to value creation and the Group is Culture: to foster a risk management culture, providing quality able to withstand the impact of an adverse outcome, and has assurance and facilitating the sharing of best practice.
the necessary capabilities, expertise, processes and controls to appropriately manage the risk.
Diagram 1: Group level framework Board Board Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Risk Committee Audit Committee 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence Executives Group CEO GEC GERC BSCMC CFO Group CRO Management TAC GCRC GORC GCC STOC Group Security Group Compliance Group Risk Group-wide Internal Audit Key Board-level Committees Direct Reporting Line GEC Group Executive Committee Executive personnel Regular Communication BSCMC Balance Sheet & Capital Management Committee Exec Management Committees and Escalation GERC Group Executive Risk Committee GHO Functions TAC Technical Actuarial Committee GCRC Group Credit Risk Committee GORC Group Operational Risk Committee GCC Group Compliance Committee STOC Solvency II Technical Oversight Committee 106 Governance Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Risk governance continued Prudentials risk governance framework requires that all of financial and nonfinancial risks faced by the Group and has the Groups businesses and functions establish processes for responsibility to consider Group-wide regulatory compliance identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the risks and controls.
The framework is based on the concept of three lines of The Group-level risk committees are supported by the Group defence comprising risk taking and management, risk control Chief Risk Of cer, with functional oversight provided by Group and oversight and independent assurance.
Security, Group Compliance and Group Risk.
Group Security is Diagram 1 on page 105 outlines the Group-level framework.
responsible for developing and delivering appropriate security measures with a view to protecting the Groups staff, physical Primary responsibility for strategy, performance management assets and intellectual property.
Group Compliance provides and risk control lies with the Board, which has established the veri cation of compliance with regulatory standards and informs Risk Committee to assist in providing leadership, direction and the Board, as well as the Groups management, on key regulatory oversight in respect of the Groups signi cant risks, and with the issues affecting the Group.
Group Risk has responsibility for Group Chief Executive and the chief executives of each of the establishing and embedding a capital management and risk Groups business units.
oversight framework and culture consistent with Prudentials risk appetite that protects and enhances the Groups embedded and Risk management franchise value.
Risk taking and the management thereof forms the first line of defence and is facilitated through both the Group Executive Independent assurance Committee GEC and the Balance Sheet and Capital The third line of defence comprises the Group-wide Internal Management Committee BSCMC.
Audit function, which provides independent and objective The GEC is comprised of the chief executives of each of the assurance to the Board, GEC, Audit and Risk Committees on Groups major business units, as well as a number of functional the overall effectiveness of risk management, control and specialists, and supports the Group Chief Executive in the governance processes across the Group.
executive management of the Group.
Reporting The BSCMC is comprised of functional specialists and supports The Risk Committee is provided with regular reports on the the Chief Financial Of cer in the management of the Groups activities of the risk function and, where it affects the results balance sheet, as well as providing oversight to the activities of of the assurances under the Turnbull compliance statement, Prudential Capital, which undertakes the treasury function for the Audit Committee also receives appropriate reporting from the Group.
Reports to the Risk Committee include information on the activities of the Group Executive Risk Risk oversight Committee, the Group Operational Risk Committee, the Group Risk control and oversight constitutes the second line of defence, Credit Risk Committee, the Solvency II Technical Oversight and is achieved through the operation of a number of Group-level Committee, the Technical Actuarial Committee and the Group risk committees, chaired by either the Chief Financial Of cer or Compliance Committee, as well as reports from Group-wide the Group Chief Risk Of cer, which monitor and keep risk Internal Audit.
These committees are as follows: The Groups capital position and overall position against risk Group Executive Risk Committee: the committee meets limits are reviewed regularly by the Group Executive Risk monthly to oversee the Groups risk exposures, including market, Committee, the Group Risk Committee and the Board.
Key credit, liquidity, insurance and operational risks, and also economic capital metrics, as well as risk-adjusted pro tability monitors the Groups capital position: information, are included in the business plans which are Group Credit Risk Committee: the committee reports reviewed by the Group Executive Risk Committee, the Group directly to the Group Executive Risk Committee and meets Risk Committee and the Board.
monthly to review the Groups investment and counterparty Routine internal reporting by the business units vary according credit risk positions: to the nature of the business, with each business unit responsible Group Operational Risk Committee: the committee meets for ensuring that its risk reporting framework meets both the quarterly to oversee the Groups operational risk exposures.
needs of the respective business unit and the standards set by The committee reports directly to the Group Executive Risk the Group Risk function.
Clear escalation criteria and processes Committee: are in place for the timely reporting of risks and incidents by business units to the various Group-level risk committees and, Solvency II Technical Oversight Committee: the committee where appropriate, the Board.
normally meets ten times per year to provide ongoing technical oversight and advice to the Board and executive in respect of Each business unit reviews the risks inherent in their business their duties with regard to the Groups Internal Model.
The operations as part of the annual preparation of their business committee reports to the Group Executive Risk Committee: plan, and subsequently, these opportunities and risks are regularly reviewed against business objectives with Group Risk.
Technical Actuarial Committee: the committee reports to the The impact of large transactions or divergences from the agreed Group Executive Risk Committee and usually meets monthly to business plan are also reviewed and reported by Group Risk.
set the methodology for valuing Prudentials assets, liabilities and capital requirements under Solvency II and the Groups internal Remuneration economic capital basis: and The report on the responsibilities and activities of the Group Compliance Committee: the committee reports to the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Directors Group Executive Risk Committee and meets every two months to remuneration report, which is set out on pages 113 to 143. oversee the effectiveness of risk and capital management for all Governance report Governance Risk governance R Re ela lat ti io on ns s w wi ith th shar shareh ehol old fide er rs s Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 107 Relations with shareholders Communication with shareholders In accordance with the relevant legislation, shareholders holding Being a major institutional investor, the Company is very 5 per cent or more of the fully paid up issued share capital of the aware of the importance of maintaining good relations with its Company, are able to require the directors to hold a general shareholders, as well as with its debt investors.
If the shareholders request identi es a resolution to held regularly with major shareholders and a programme of be moved at the meeting, the resolution must be included in the meetings took place throughout the year.
In addition, Prudential notice of meeting.
Where such a request has been duly lodged regularly holds a conference for investors to provide further with the Company, the directors are obliged to call a general insight on selected areas of the business.
In 2012, the conference meeting within 21 days of becoming subject to the request and was held in New York during November.
must set a date for the meeting not more than 28 days from the date of the issue of the notice.
Shareholders can also require the The latest analysts and brokers reports on the Company and Company to circulate a statement of not more than 1,000 words the sector are circulated regularly to Board members to develop on the subject matter of the resolution.
Shareholders need not further their knowledge and understanding of external views cover the costs of circulating such statements where the requests about the Company.
The Chairman and the non-executive relate to the annual general meeting of a public company and directors also provided feedback to the Board on topics raised provided suf cient requests to require the circulation are with them by major shareholders.
Major shareholders and debt received prior to the financial year end preceding the meeting.
investors are welcome to meet with newly appointed directors, Written shareholder requests should be addressed to the Group or any of the directors generally.
Company Secretary at the registered of ce.
The Group maintains a corporate website containing a wide range of relevant information for private and institutional Company constitution investors, including the Groups financial calendar.
The The Company is governed by the Companies Act 2006, other shareholder information section on pages 396 and 397 contains applicable legislation and regulation as well as by provisions of further details which may be of interest to shareholders.
The Memorandum and Articles of Association are available on the Groups website.
Annual General Meeting Any change to the Articles must be approved by special The Annual General Meeting will be held in the Churchill resolution of the shareholders in accordance with the provisions Auditorium at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, of the Companies Act 2006.
There were no changes to the Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Companys constitutional documents during 2012.
Share capital The Annual General Meeting is an important forum for both institutional and private shareholders and the Company The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2012, which is set out in note H11 on page 287, consisted of encourages all its shareholders to vote.
Shareholders are given the opportunity during annual general meetings to put questions 2,557,242,352 2011: 2,548,039,330 ordinary shares of 5 pence each, all fully paid up and listed on the London Stock Exchange to the Board on matters relating to the Groups operations and performance.
and the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
Subject to applicable local securities law, the Companys shares may be registered on the The Company has continued its practice of calling a poll on all main register in the UK or the Companys branch registers in resolutions and the voting results, including all proxies lodged Ireland or Hong Kong.
The number of accounts on the share prior to the meeting, are displayed at the meeting and published register at 31 December 2012 was 60,522 2011: 63,338. on the Companys website.
This practice provides shareholders present with suf cient information regarding the level of support The Company also maintains secondary listings on the New York and opposition to each resolution and ensures all votes cast Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Receipts either at the meeting or through proxies are included in the result.
which are referenced to ordinary shares on the main UK register, under a depositary agreement with J. P. Morgan, and on the Details of the 2012 AGM, including the major items discussed Singapore Stock Exchange in the form of interests in shares, at the meeting and the results of the voting, can be found on which are referenced to the shares on the Hong Kong register the Companys website.
All directors in of ce at the time of the under a depository agreement with the Central Depository Pte Annual General Meeting held on 17 May 2012 attended the Limited the CDP.
AGM, with the exception of Michael Garrett, who was unable to do so due to a prior commitment.
The Company has maintained a suf ciency of public oat throughout the reporting period as required by the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
A number of dividend waivers are in place and these relate to shares issued but not allocated under the Groups employee share plans.
These shares are held by the Trustees and will, in due course, be used to satisfy requirements under the Groups employee share plans.
108 Governance Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Relations with shareholders continued Rights and obligations Signifi cant shareholdings The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares The Company had received noti cation of interests in the shares are set out in full in the Companys Articles of Association.
There of Prudential plc as at 31 December 2012 and in accordance with are currently no voting restrictions on the ordinary shares, all of Rule 5.1.
2 R of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the which are fully paid, and each share carries one vote on a poll.
Financial Services Authority, from Legal & General Group plc of If votes are cast on a show of hands, each shareholder present in 3.99 per cent, from Norges Bank of an interest in 4.03 per cent, person or by proxy, or in the case of a corporation, each of its duly from BlackRock, Inc. of an interest in 5.08 per cent and from authorised corporate representatives, has one vote except that if Capital Group International Inc. of an interest in 10.39 per cent.
a proxy is appointed by more than one member, the proxy has No further noti cations have been received between the end of one vote for and one vote against if instructed by one or more 2012 and the date of this report.
members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
Authority to issue shares The directors require authority from shareholders in relation to Where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, the issue of shares by the Company.
Whenever shares are issued participants are the bene cial owners of the shares but not the the Company has to offer the shares to existing shareholders registered owners, the voting rights are normally exercisable by pro rata to their holdings unless it has been given authority by the registered owner in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
shareholders to issue shares without offering them first to Trustees may vote at their discretion, but do not vote on any existing shareholders.
The Company seeks authority from its unawarded shares held as surplus assets.
shareholders on an annual basis to issue shares up to a maximum As at 12 March 2013, Trustees held 0.34 per cent of the issued amount and to issue up to 5 per cent of its issued share capital share capital of the Company under the various plans in without observing pre-emption rights, in line with relevant operation.
Dis-application of statutory pre-emption procedures is also sought for rights issues.
The Rights to dividends under the various schemes are set out in Companys existing authorities to issue shares and to do so note I4 on page 308. without observing pre-emption rights are due to expire at the end of this years Annual General Meeting.
An ordinary Restrictions on transfer resolution and a special resolution to approve the renewal of In accordance with English company law, shares may be these authorities respectively will be put to shareholders at the transferred by an instrument of transfer or through an electronic Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2013. system currently CREST and transfer is not restricted except that the directors may in certain circumstances refuse to register Details of shares issued during 2012 and 2011 are given in transfers of shares, but only if such refusal does not prevent note H11 on page 287. dealings in the shares from taking place on an open and proper In accordance with the terms of a waiver granted by the Hong basis.
If the directors make use of that power, they must send Kong Stock Exchange, the Company con rms that it complies the transferee notice of the refusal within two months.
with the applicable law and regulation in the UK in relation to Certain restrictions may be imposed from time to time by the holding of shares in treasury and with the conditions of the applicable laws and regulations for example, insider trading waiver in connection with the purchase of own shares and any laws and pursuant to the Listing Rules of both the Financial treasury shares it may hold.
Services Authority, and any successor organisation, and the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, as well as Prudentials own share dealing rules, whereby directors and certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
Some of the Companys employee share plans include restrictions on transfer of shares while the shares are subject to the plan.
All directors are required to obtain a number of quali cation shares within one year of appointment, which they would also be expected to retain under guidelines approved by the Board and as described on page 129 of the Directors remuneration report.
Governance report Governance Relations with shareholders Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 109 Authority to purchase own shares In discharging these objectives, the Committee helps to support The directors also require authority from shareholders in relation the certi cations by the Group Chief Executive and the Chief to the purchase of own shares by the Company.
The Company Financial Of cer of the effectiveness of disclosure procedures seeks authority by special resolution on an annual basis for the and controls required by Section 302 of the Act.
buyback of its own shares in accordance with the relevant The provisions of Section 404 of the Act require the Companys provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and other related management to report on the effectiveness of internal controls guidance.
The Company has not made use of that authority since over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 20-F, which it was last granted at its Annual General Meeting in 2012.
This is led with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
existing authority is due to expire at the end of this years Annual To comply with this requirement to report on the effectiveness General Meeting.
A special resolution to approve the renewal of of internal control, the Group has documented and tested its this authority will be put to shareholders at the Annual General internal controls over financial reporting in the format required Meeting on 16 May 2013. by the Act.
The annual assessment and related report from the external auditor will be included in the Groups annual report Model code for securities transactions by directors on Form 20-F.
The Company con rms that it has adopted a code of conduct regarding securities transactions by directors on terms no less In addition, the Disclosure Committee evaluates whether or not exacting than required by Appendix 10 to the Hong Kong Listing a particular matter requires disclosure to the market, taking into Rules, and that the directors of the Company have complied with account relevant regulations and reviews all forward looking this code of conduct throughout the period.
US corporate governance and regulations As a result of the listing of its securities on the New York Stock Exchange, the Company is required to comply with the relevant provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 the Act as they apply to foreign private issuers and has adopted procedures to ensure this is the case.
In particular, in relation to the provisions of Section 302 of that Act, which covers disclosure controls and procedures, a Disclosure Committee has been established reporting to the Group Chief Executive, chaired by the Chief Financial Of cer and comprising members of senior management.
The objectives of this Committee are to: A A A A A A A A A A A A A Assist the Group Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Of cer in designing, implementing and periodically evaluating the Companys disclosure controls and procedures: A A A A A A A A A A A A A Monitor compliance with the Companys disclosure controls and procedures: A A A A A A A A A A A A A Review and provide advice to the Group Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Of cer with regard to the scope and content of all public disclosures made by the Company which are of material signi cance to the market or investors: and A A A A A A A A A A A A A Review and consider, and where applicable follow up on, matters raised by other components of the disclosure process.
These may include, to the extent they are relevant to the disclosure process, any matters to be raised with the Audit Committee, the internal auditors or the external auditor on the Companys internal controls.
