Audit committee report Audit committee chairmans statement 2012 was a busy year for the audit committee in spite of relatively modest changes to the financial reporting regime.
In addition to its regular activities, the committee considered the judgement areas referred to below, reviewed the accounting implications of the head office move, approved a revised policy on non-audit services provided by the auditors and reviewed Group recharges between legal entities.
Internal audit reported its findings to the committee across a wide range of topics on a regular basis.
In addition, the committee undertook detailed and specific training on reporting and regulatory matters, and reviewed auditor rotation.
Areas of particular focus in 2013 will include the key regulatory capital and liquidity reports, a review of acquisitions made in 2012, the impact on capital and reserves of any future acquisitions and the efficacy of the external audit process.
Committee members The current members of the audit committee are the independent non-executive directors Oliver Corbett chairman, Kate Avery, Caroline Burton, David Harrel and Kathryn Matthews.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The chairman is a chartered accountant whilst other members have extensive experience of financial matters and of the financial services industry.
The committee met on seven occasions in 2012 2011: seven.
Details of attendance by members are set out on page 51.
Role and responsibilities of the committee These are set out in the terms of reference of the committee, which are reviewed annually.
Financial reporting The committee regularly considers: significant financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the parent company and consolidated financial statements: the appropriateness of accounting policies and bases: narrative statements and disclosures to ensure that they are reasonable and consistent with the reported results: and regulatory financial reporting.
Key judgement areas considered in 2012 included the carrying value of the Jersey loan notes received on the sale of the Groups Jersey trust operation in 2008, the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, provisions and the valuation of defined benefit pension obligations.
Internal controls and risk management systems The review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls is achieved primarily by the assessment of the work of the Group internal audit department, reports produced by the compliance functions, the half year and annual financial statements, the scope and findings of the annual external audit and periodic reviews of identified risks and mitigating controls undertaken by senior management.
A separate group risk committee report considers risk management issues see page 27.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 Report and accounts 2012 6161 Audit committee report continued Internal audit The Group internal audit department reviews Group operations on a continuing basis.
The frequency of reviews is determined by an internal risk-based audit programme which is approved by the audit committee.
This ensures that whilst the focus is on higher risk areas, all parts of the business are covered over a three year cycle.
Regular updates are given to the committee on the findings of internal audit reviews, the status of scheduled work and on the follow up of reviews to ensure that agreed recommendations are acted upon promptly.
The committee sees all reviews containing a high risk-related recommendation and a sample of other reviews.
The internal audit department will also undertake occasional ad hoc reviews at the request of management or the committee.
The committee also regularly reviews the resources and authority of the internal audit department.
External audit The committee is responsible for reviewing external audit arrangements and for any recommendation to the Board regarding change of audit firm.
This review includes consideration of the external auditors period in office, their compensation and the scope, quality and cost-effectiveness of their work.
The last audit services contract tender process was undertaken in June 2009, which led to the appointment of KPMG as auditors.
The committee plan to undertake an audit services contract tender process again before the tenth anniversary of their appointment.
The committee reviews the independence and the nature of non-audit services supplied by the auditor and non-audit fee levels relative to the audit fee.
Prior approval by the committee is required where the fee for an individual non-audit service is expected to exceed 25,000.
Fees for non-audit services paid to the auditor should not, in aggregate, exceed 50% of the audit fee in any year without the prior written approval of the committee.
Non-audit fees payable to the auditor in 2012 were 65,000.
This represents 13.1% of the fees for assurance services of 497,000, which includes the audit of regulatory returns and of the interim statement 2011: 114,000, 23.2% of 491,000.
The committee recognises that, given their knowledge of the business, there are often advantages in using the auditor to provide certain non-audit services.
The committee is satisfied that the independence of the auditor has not been impaired by providing these services.
Details of the auditors fees are shown in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
The committee also reviews the audit engagement letters each year and has discussions with the auditor with no management present.
Regarding the year end audit, presentations were received from the auditor on audit progress, findings and recommendations and any adjusted and unadjusted errors.
Confidential reporting policy The committee annually reviews the Groups Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 confidential reporting policy and approves any changes to the document.
It also receives details of any reports made.
Other On invitation, the finance and other executive directors, compliance officers, senior finance and internal audit staff and the external auditor attend meetings to assist the committee to fulfil its duties.
The committee can access independent professional advice if it considers it necessary.
The committee performs an annual review of its performance and this is also reviewed by the Board.
Oliver Corbett Chairman of the audit committee 62 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012
