Nomination committee report Committee members The current members of the nomination committee are Mark Nicholls chairman, Kate Avery, Caroline Burton, Oliver Corbett, David Harrel, Kathryn Matthews and Andy Pomfret.
The committee met formally on two occasions in 2012 2011: one.
Details of attendance by members are set out on page 51.
It also had informal discussions on a number of other occasions during the year.
Role of the committee The committee considers and makes recommendations to the Board for the appointment of directors: the Board as a whole decides upon any such appointment.
During the year, the remit of the committee was widened to cover issues such as appraisals, training and director development.
An external search consultancy and or open advertising are generally used when recruiting new non-executive directors and may often be used when recruiting executive directors.
When considering possible candidates, the committee evaluates the skills, knowledge and experience of the candidates and, in the case of non-executive appointments, their other commitments.
The committee is mindful of the benefits of a diverse Board with a broad range of skills and experience and this has been reflected in recent Board appointments.
During 2012, the committee focused on the Board effectiveness review process, the proposed reduction in Board size and succession planning.
With regard to the Board effectiveness review, it was agreed that an independent third party be used to oversee the process and, having interviewed a number of candidates, it was agreed to re-appoint Lintstock with a wider brief.
With regard to the reduction in size of the Board, it was agreed that the Board should ensure it had more exposure to a broader range of attendees who would be asked to attend and speak on specific topics.
It was also agreed that non-executive directors should have more interaction with senior executives and that a programme of lunches and informal meetings would be arranged.
With regard to succession planning it was agreed that we needed to formalise both short term emergency and long term succession plans for executives in management roles and for non-executives.
This would reinforce and supplement the current process whereby the Board is regularly exposed to senior management below Board level during visits to other offices, attendance at internal meetings and presentations by senior managers to the Board.
Regarding non-executive director succession, the committee will be looking to recruit in 2013 following the retirement from the Board of Kate Avery and Caroline Burton at the 2013 AGM.
In particular, the committee are mindful of the need to ensure that the audit committee includes members with accounting and or auditing experience.
It will be looking to recruit a suitably qualified accountant to provide support for the current chairman of the committee and to potentially succeed him as audit committee chairman in due course.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors are required to seek election by the members at the AGM following their appointment, and re-election every year thereafter.
A non-executive director is not appointed for a fixed term but would not normally serve as a director for more than nine years.
The committee is mindful of the UK Corporate Governance Code requirement that any term beyond six years for a non-executive director should be subject to particularly vigorous review and should take into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
Mark Nicholls Chairman of the nomination committee Rathbone Brothers Plc Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 Report and accounts 2012 6363 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect ofthe report and accounts The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the consolidated and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare consolidated and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the consolidated and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a directors report, directors remuneration report and corporate governance report that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Group website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclosure of information to the auditor The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Statement as a result of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial ServicesAuthority We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the parent company and its undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the directors report, together with the information provided in the business review, financial review and group risk committee report, includes a fair view of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By Order of the Board A D Pomfret Chief Executive 19 February 2013 64 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 Consolidated Financial Statements 66 Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc 68 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 69 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 70 Consolidated balance sheet 71 Consolidated statement of cash flows 72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 65
