Group risk committee report Group risk committee chairmans statement The responsibilities of the group risk committee include: 2012 has seen the considerable enhancement of our risk advising the Board on the Groups overall risk appetite management processes.
In May 2012 we recruited a senior and risk strategy, taking into account the current and risk analyst and now have a small stand-alone risk team who prospective macroeconomic and financial environment: have developed our risk register and, in particular, the overseeing the current risk exposures of the Group: supporting management information.
reviewing the risk assessment processes: In 2013, we expect to see further enhancement to the Companys defined risk appetite with the identification and supporting the Boards assessment of any proposed embedding of risk appetite metrics in relation to growth and strategic business change: and shareholder value, the management of capital and liquidity assessing reports on any material breaches of and risk of unexpected loss to earnings.
This appetite risk tolerances and the adequacy of proposed framework will be applied though the use of principles, risk management action.
tolerances and limits documented within a company risk appetite statement and defined for each risk category.
Work The full remit of the committee is detailed within its terms on the quantification of operational risk is also planned.
of reference, which is subject to annual review and approval by the Board.
The group risk committee meets on a quarterly basis.
Committee members The group risk committee, chaired by Kathryn Matthews, Risk appetite comprises two non-executive directors Oliver Corbett and Kathryn Matthews, members of the executive committee, Rathbones risk appetite is defined as the level of risk the the chief executive of Rathbone Unit Trust Management Company is prepared to accept, within defined tolerance and the group heads of HR, compliance, internal audit and levels, in the pursuit of its strategic objectives.
Ian Buckley is the executive committee member recognises that taking risks is a normal part of running a with responsibility for risk management.
business, and that the business will necessarily bear losses from financial and operational risks which may manifest themselves either as reductions in income or as either Role and responsibilities of the committee operating or opportunity costs.
The Board is committed to Rathbones has a risk management framework, the key mitigating risk as much as possible, but would be prepared objective of which is to identify and manage risk within a to accept unexpected losses of up to 10 million in any Board-approved risk appetite.
The Board is responsible for five year period before it materially changes the current the Groups system of risk management and governance business model.
framework which is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks of failure to achieve business objectives.
Risk register Rathbones believes that the most effective way of achieving this is by embedding risk management throughout the A risk register is maintained which is considered the principal organisation and the risk framework is designed to ensure tool for monitoring risks.
During 2012 a review was that all identified risks are owned by management, business conducted of the Companys risk universe to ensure the units and specific committees, all with responsibility for system of risk management remains fit for purpose to enable identifying, evaluating and managing risk.
The system has the identification and evaluation of all material risks facing been in place through the period under review and is a the Group.
Risks are classified at different levels.
The highest continuing process supported by independent risk and level Level 1 groups risks as either business, financial or compliance functions.
The next level Level 2 contains 15 risk categories which are listed below.
Detailed risks Level 3 are Committees within the governance framework report a subset of Level 2 risks and are captured and maintained through the risk management framework to the group risk across the Company within business unit risk registers.
committee, which takes a more holistic view of risk, defining risk appetite, identifying trends and correlations and providing guidance to other committees and to the Board.
This approach allows for risk decisions to be taken at the most appropriate level and also be subject to robust review and challenge.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 27 Group risk committee report continued Risk scoring Risk heat map The risk scoring methodology adopted by Rathbones and The risk heat map illustrates the relative overall positioning approved by the group risk committee assesses each risk of our Level 2 risk categories as described on pages 29 to 31 using a 1 4 scoring system.
Each Level 3 risk is rated by in terms of residual impact and likelihood.
assessing both the probability of the risk occurring and its impact should it occur.
A residual risk score is then derived taking into account an assessment of the internal control I environment or related insurance.
A L G E H M Principal risks and uncertainties F D J The Board believes that the principal risks and uncertainties N facing the Group are identified within the information O K below.
Our overall risk profile is analysed at the Level 2 B risk category and these are defined below together C with key factors that mitigate these risks.
These are not exhaustive listings.
Risk profile Thirty-three Level 3 risks currently form the basis of the Groups risk register, each of which is classified under one of the 15 Level 2 risk categories.
Rathbones approach for managing risk is underpinned by Unlikely Likelihood Almost certain our understanding of our current risk exposures and how our risks change over time.
The full risk register is monitored closely by executive management, the group risk committee and the Board.
The risk heat map opposite summarises the overall risk rating of each Level 2 risk.
The risk profile and ratings for the majority of Level 2 risks have remained consistent during 2012.
Changes to Level 2 risks are presented in the table below.
Risk Risk change in 2012 Description of risk change Credit Market conditions have improved along with the credit quality of our counterparties.
Liquidity Increased balances held with the Bank of England.
Business change Significant activity and increasing number of projects planned for 2013.
28 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 Very low Impact Severe Group risk committee report continued Financial risks Residual rating Reference Level 2 risk Impact Likelihood Definition Key mitigators A Credit High Very low Risk associated with one or more Banking committee oversight.
counterparties failing to fulfil its Counterparty limits and credit reviews.
contractual obligations, including stock Treasury policy and procedures manual.
Annual Individual Capital Adequacy Assessment Process.
B Liquidity Low Low Risk of insufficient financial resources to Banking committee oversight.
meet obligations as they fall due, or can Daily reconciliations and reporting only secure access to such resources at to senior management.
Annual Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment including stress testing.
C Market Low Low Risk that earnings or capital will be Banking committee oversight.
adversely affected by changes in the level or volatility of interest rates, Daily monitoring of interest rates, exchange rates and maturity mismatch.
foreign currency exchange rates or market prices.
Robust application of policy and investment limits.
D Pension Medium Low Risk that the obligation to fund any Management and trustee oversight.
deficit arising from defined benefit Monthly valuation estimates.
schemes materially affects dividend, Triennial independent actuarial reserves and capital.
Further detailed discussion of the Groups exposures to financial risks is included in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
Business risks Residual rating Reference Level 2 risk Impact Likelihood Definition Key mitigators E Business Medium Medium Risk that the business model does Board and executive oversight.
not respond in an optimal manner to Documented strategy.
model changing market conditions such that Annual business targets, subject to sustainable growth or market share is regular review and challenge.
Regular reviews of pricing structure.
Continued investment in marketing, the investment process and service standards.
F Performance Medium Medium Risk of inappropriate financial or Investment governance and investment advice, inadequate structured committee oversight, and advice documentation, unsuitable portfolios or specifically strategic asset inadequate performance failing to meet allocation and stock selection.
our clients investment and or other Management oversight and objectives or expectations.
active client service, performance measurement and attribution analysis.
Monthly investment manager peer reviews.
Consistent and competitive remuneration schemes.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 29 Group risk committee report continued Business risks continued Residual rating Reference Level 2 risk Impact Likelihood Definition Key mitigators G Regulatory High High Risk that the introduction of new Active involvement with representative industry bodies.
regulation or changes to interpretation or enforcement of existing regulation Compliance monitoring and oversight of regulatory developments.
materially affects the business model, services or operations.
Close contact with the regulators.
H Reputational Medium Low Risk of reputational damage from Board and executive oversight with financial and non-financial events a strong compliance culture.
or failing to meet stakeholders Investment in staff training expectations.
Proactive communications with shareholders investor relations.
Investment process, management and performance monitoring.
Treating clients fairly culture, values and governance.
Operational risks Residual rating Reference Level 2 risk Impact Likelihood Definition Key mitigators Risk that the planning or implementation Project and IT committees.
I Business High Low of change is ineffective or fails to deliver Dedicated project office function.
Documented business plans and IT strategy.
Two-stage assessment, challenge and approval of project plans.
Documented project and change procedures.
Risk that an internal or external event Group business continuity J Business Medium Low results in either failure or detriment to committee oversight.
continuity core business processes or services.
Documented crisis incident management and disaster recovery plans.
Continuous monitoring of IT systems availability.
Risk of inappropriate access to, Data security committee oversight.
K Data integrity Low Low disclosure of or integrity of client or Data protection policy and procedures.
and security company sensitive information.
Training and employee awareness programmes.
Office and physical security within all locations.
30 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 Group risk committee report continued Operational risks continued Residual rating Reference Level 2 risk Impact Likelihood Definition Key mitigators L Legal and Medium Low Risk of remediation, censure, fines Executive oversight.
or legal action as a result of a failure Retained specialist legal advisers.
compliance to identify or inability to comply with Compliance department.
Data protection policy and compliance monitoring.
M Outsourcing Medium Low Risk of one or more third parties failing Executive oversight.
to provide or perform outsourced Active relationship management, services to standards expected by the including regular service Group, impacting the ability to deliver review meetings.
Service level agreements and monitoring of key performance indicators.
Risk of loss of key staff or group, Executive oversight.
N People Low Low insufficiently skilled resources and Succession and contingency planning.
inappropriate individual or group Transparent, consistent and behaviour or actions.
Investment in staff training and development.
Contractual clauses with restrictive covenants.
O Processing Low Medium Risk that the design or execution of Authorisation limits and client financial settlement transaction management oversight.
processes including dealing activity Dealing limits and supporting are inadequate or fail to deliver an system controls.
appropriate level of service and Active investment in protection to client or company assets.
Kathryn Matthews Chairman of the group risk committee Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 31
