Corporate governance report In relation to compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, this report together with the directors report states the position at 19 February 2013.
The UK Corporate Governance Code compliance statement The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code was issued in June 2010 by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
Explanations of how the Code principles and supporting principles have been applied are set out in the Governance sections of the report and accounts.
The directors believe the Company was in compliance with the Code throughout the year with the following exception: Composition of the Board Provision B.
1.2 During 2012, the Company was not in compliance with the Code requirement that at least half the Board, excluding the chairman, should be independent non-executive directors.
However, following the Board changes made at the year end there are now a majority of independent non-executive directors on the Board.
Board meetings The Board meets a minimum of seven times per annum with one meeting devoted entirely to strategic issues.
Some Board meetings are preceded by Board dinners which allow for broader discussions.
In months where no formal Board meeting is scheduled, an informal meeting of the non-executive directors and the chairman and chief executive is generally held.
The non-executive directors also have informal meetings without the chairman or chief executive present.
Board membership The Board currently consists of a non-executive chairman, three executive directors and five other non-executive directors.
The roles of the chairman, Mark Nicholls, and the chief executive, Andy Pomfret, are separated and are clearly defined in writing and agreed by the Board.
The chairmans role includes setting a Board agenda which is primarily focused on strategy, performance, value creation and accountability and ensuring that issues relevant to these areas are reserved for Board decision.
The chief executive is the most senior executive director on the Board, with responsibility for proposing strategy to the Board, and for delivering the strategy as agreed.
The Board considers that all of the non-executive directors are independent.
Caroline Burton was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2003.
1.1 of the Code notes that board service of over nine years is a factor that a board should consider when assessing the independence of a director.
Whilst still considered to be independent, Caroline stood down as chairman of the remuneration committee on 1 November 2012 and will retire from the Board at the AGM on 14 May 2013.
Kate Avery is also standing down from the Board at the AGM.
The non-executive directors participate fully with their executive colleagues in Board meetings and have access to any information they need to perform their duties.
They bring an independent judgement to bear on Group policies and strategies as well as management actions and performance, including resourcing and standards of conduct.
The senior independent director is David Harrel, who is available to shareholders if they have concerns that they would rather not address to the chairman or executive directors or which remain unresolved after an approach through the normal channels.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its attention, which covers key areas of the Groups business.
These include determination of the Groups aims and the strategy to be adopted in achieving those aims, reviews of budgets and financial statements, company acquisitions and disposals, major capital expenditure and the review of decisions taken by the boards of subsidiary companies.
Board performance The Board undertakes an annual review of its operation and performance.
In 2012 this was carried out based on an internal questionnaire, developed and executed with assistance from Lintstock Limited, a London-based corporate advisory firm.
On completion of the review process, Lintstock produced a report highlighting the key issues raised.
In the review there was a consensus that the Board was working better than in the previous year.
It was not felt that the Board lacked any specific area of non-executive expertise but that we should recruit a second person with appropriate financial expertise to support the chairman of the audit committee.
It was agreed that there should be more discussion of strategic matters at Board meetings and Board papers should reflect better a strategic context.
Other actions arising from the review included the arrangement of regular discussions with the management layer below Board level and improvements to Board papers to ensure that the key issues were highlighted.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 Report and accounts 2012 4949 Corporate governance report continued Board performance continued Directors Individual appraisal of each directors performance is undertaken by the chief executive in respect of the executive directors executive roles and the chairman for all directors in respect of their contribution to the Board.
This involves meetings with each director on a one to one basis.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, carry out an appraisal of the performance of the chairman.
Board training Rathbones is committed to the training and development of all staff to ensure professional standards are maintained and enhanced.
All directors are required to dedicate a certain number of hours to their own development.
Training and development include activities to keep up to date with Rathbones specific issues and industry, market and regulatory changes.
New directors are involved in a thorough induction process designed to enable them to become quickly familiar with the business.
This includes meeting staff in a number of key business areas, attendance at important internal meetings and demonstrations of systems and key business processes.
Board committees The principal Board committees are the executive, audit, remuneration, nomination and group risk committees.
The Board has delegated full authority to the executive committee, subject to a list of matters which are reserved for decision by the full Board.
The other Board committees have formal terms of reference, which are reviewed and approved by the Board on an annual basis.
These are available on request from the Companys registered office and on the Group website.
Executive committee The executive committee is chaired by the chief executive, Andy Pomfret, and comprises Ian Buckley, Paul Chavasse and Paul Stockton together with the chief operating officer, Andrew Butcher.
The purpose of the executive committee is to monitor every aspect of the Group businesses on a continuing basis and to analyse and plan all business proposals in detail for submission to and consideration by the Board.
It meets monthly and more frequently when required.
Audit committee Current members of the audit committee are Oliver Corbett chairman, Kate Avery, Caroline Burton, David Harrel and Kathryn Matthews.
Details of its work are set out in the audit committee report.
Group risk committee Current members of the group risk committee are Kathryn Matthews chairman, Ian Buckley, Paul Chavasse, Oliver Corbett, Richard Lanyon, Andy Pomfret and Paul Stockton together with the chief operating officer, chief executive of Rathbone Unit Trust Management, heads of compliance, internal audit, HR and treasury.
Full details of its role are set out in the group risk committee report.
Remuneration committee Current members of the remuneration committee are David Harrel chairman, Kate Avery, Caroline Burton, Oliver Corbett, Kathryn Matthews and Mark Nicholls.
Full details of its role are set out in the remuneration report.
Nomination committee Current members of the nomination committee are Mark Nicholls chairman, Kate Avery, Caroline Burton, Oliver Corbett, David Harrel, Kathryn Matthews and Andy Pomfret.
Full details of its role are set out in the nomination committee report.
50 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 Corporate governance report continued Conflicts of interest A director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the Act to avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
The Act allows the Board to authorise a directors conflict or potential conflict of interest where the Articles of Association contain a provision to this effect and also allows the Articles of Association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
Shareholders approved the necessary changes to the Companys Articles of Association at the AGM on 7 May 2008.
There are safeguards which apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Only independent directors those who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision and, in taking the decision, the directors must act in a way which they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors are also able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation.
A register of actual or potential conflicts notified and authorised is maintained and reviewed regularly by the Board.
Other Board issues The Company has appropriate insurance cover in place in respect of legal action against its directors.
Any director has access to the advice and services of the company secretary and may seek independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The company secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring Board procedures are followed and compliance with rules and regulations applicable to the Company.
Any removal or appointment of the company secretary is decided by the Board.
Board meeting and committee attendance in 2012 Executive Audit Remuneration Nomination Group risk 1 2 Plc Board committee committee committee committee committee C R R Avery 6 7 5 7 7 7 1 2 I M Buckley 7 7 12 12 4 4 C M Burton 7 7 6 7 7 7 2 2 P D G Chavasse 6 7 10 12 4 4 O R P Corbett 6 7 7 7 7 7 2 2 4 4 D T D Harrel 7 7 7 7 6 7 2 2 R P Lanyon 2 2 3 4 3 4 K A Matthews 7 7 7 7 6 7 2 2 4 4 A T Morris 7 7 M P Nicholls 7 7 7 7 2 2 A D Pomfret 7 7 12 12 1 2 4 4 R I Smeeton 6 7 R P Stockton 7 7 12 12 3 4 1 Scheduled bi-monthly meeting 2 Scheduled monthly meeting Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 51 Corporate governance report continued Shareholder relations The Company is committed to ensuring that there is effective communication with all shareholders.
All regulatory news announcements, press releases and financial reports are available on the Group website.
Following the publication of the interim and full year results, presentations are given to major shareholders, investment managers, analysts and employees.
The presentation packs used and any webcasts are also on the Group website.
Meetings with major shareholders provide an opportunity to discuss governance and strategy issues and to introduce other directors including non-executive directors.
Feedback from these meetings is reported to the Board.
All shareholders have the opportunity to meet non-executive directors at the AGM.
At least 20 business days notice of the AGM is given to allow time for proper consideration of the resolutions by shareholders.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantially separate issue.
Every effort is made to ensure that all directors, and in particular committee chairmen, are at the meeting.
The Board welcomes questions and comments from shareholders.
Votes are taken on a show of hands unless a poll is requested and full details of proxy voting figures are reported at the meeting and on the Group website.
Going concern The Companys business activities, risks and uncertainties, financial performance in 2012 and the financial position at 31 December 2012 are summarised in the business and financial review on pages 16 to 26 and group risk committee report on pages 27 to 31.
Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements summarises how the Group manages its financial risk.
Regulation Rathbone Investment Management Limited, Rathbone Unit Trust Management Limited and Rathbone Pension & Advisory Services Limited are all authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
Rathbone Investment Management Limited is registered as an investment adviser with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Rathbone Investment Management International Limited is regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission.
The Board together with the executive committee and the audit committee have implemented systems and procedures to ensure adherence to the statutes and regulations relevant to each of the Group companies.
Model code The Company has its own internal dealing rules which extend the FSA Listing Rules Model Code provisions to all employees.
52 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012
