Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 54 We work with a number of other partners on some Assessing our supply chain Building successful of our major contracts to help deliver all the services All our suppliers must register on our supplier in these contracts.
When we are working with these assessment portal, allowing us to monitor them and supplier relationships partners we ensure that they understand our ensuring we are consistent in the way we capture principles and meet our standards by means of an information.
We also use the portal for online We recognise that good procurement practices active supplier relationship management process.
tendering, giving all registered organisations, have a direct influence on our business performance.
We have embedded this process in our category regardless of size, the opportunity to work with us.
We manage our supply chain effectively, ensure that management methodology.
It gives us a set of robust the goods and services that we buy are provided by We ask suppliers to complete a detailed tools and techniques to formalise our supplier approved suppliers who are fully committed to our questionnaire, including questions covering their relationships and ensures that deliverables are met policies, meet the highest ethical standards and anti-bribery and corruption policies, working by both parties.
This process also ensures open two comply with our responsible sourcing policy.
conditions and the health and safety of their way communications, in contrast to the conventional employees.
This allows us to identify and manage View all our policies online one way buyer-supplier relationship, where buyers any potential risks in our supply chain, including risks capita.
co. uk responsibility tend to dictate to suppliers.
to our reputation and continuity of supply of goods and services.
It is a robust process that ensures we How we manage our approach Engaging and actively managing our suppliers select only suppliers who meet our standards.
We have a very diverse supplier base, spending Our Group procurement team meets our strategic If requirements for improvement are identified 950m with over 22,000 companies.
Our key suppliers regularly to ensure that the products and through this process, we obtain further detailed supplier relationships are managed by a central services they provide are compliant with our policies information from external sources so that we fully procurement team that works collaboratively with and guidelines: this is a routine part of our supplier understand the risks.
We then contact the supplier to our business units on policy, process and best practice, relationship management.
Regular meetings of this understand its view on the information we have as well as supporting local procurement specialists.
kind also give us the opportunity to share knowledge discovered.
We can provide support to suppliers and expertise and look for further ways to improve Our Group procurement team takes a category where appropriate for example, by using our the way we work together.
management approach that allows us to build procurement expertise to help the supplier manage strategic partnerships.
We categorise our suppliers its supply chain risk and offering support based on based both on the value of the contract and on the our insights on procurement cost reduction.
Our 2012 performance services they provide.
We conduct continual detailed 2012 2011 analysis of our spend with suppliers.
Through this Smart procurement continual review, we are able to further investigate all Annually audit all strategic suppliers 100% strategic 100% strategic Where we have acquired a new business, our risks to the supply chain and to take action to suppliers audited suppliers audited procurement team undertakes a risk assessment mitigate these risks and to support suppliers.
This Engaging with our suppliers All new suppliers All new suppliers as part of the due diligence process to ensure that also provides us with an insight into the proportion of registered on registered on their suppliers meet Capitas standards before they SMEs that are currently delivering goods or services online portal to online portal to migrate to become one of our own suppliers.
ensure they ensure they meet This identification process enables us to gain better Suppliers providing services across the Group are meet our our standards visibility of risks, so we can mitigate them through classified as strategic suppliers and our Group standards the use of existing suppliers in the Group.
In addition, procurement team centrally manages relationships the process identifies suppliers that we could use with them, actively controlling over 400m of spend.
more widely across the Group.
This allows them to grow their businesses internally to the benefit both of Capita and the supply chain generally.
