Governance C Cor orpor pora at te e G Go ov five er rn nan anc ce e Capita plc 67 Audit Committee report I am pleased to present the report on the activities of the Audit Committee for The Audit Committee terms of reference set out in full the role, responsibilities the year to 31 December 2012.
Set out below is a summary of the work carried and authority of the Committee and can be found on the Companys website out by the Committee.
Audit Committee Committee activities during 2012 Throughout 2012 the members of the Audit Committee were Paul Bowtell The Committee met six times during the year.
Meetings are planned around Chairman, Martina King, Nigel Wilson and Gillian Sheldon from appointment the financial calendar for the Company and the meeting held in May is specifically in September 2012, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Paul to focus on the risk, internal control and compliance agendas.
Reports are Bowtell is a Chartered Accountant and has recent and relevant financial received at all meetings from the Group Risk & Compliance and Group Internal experience for the purposes of the Code and the FRCs Guidance on Audit Audit departments and new contract terms are also reviewed as appropriate.
The Board has reviewed the performance of the Committee and During the year the Committee undertook the following activities: is satisfied that the combined knowledge and experience of its members is such January: This meeting specifically reviewed the Group Internal Audit plans for that the Committee discharges its responsibilities in an effective, informed and 2012 and looked at the structure of the department, the scope and emphasis of challenging manner.
These plans were approved by the Committee Audit Committee meetings are by invitation and generally attended by: the February: At the meeting to review the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts, Non-Executive Chairman: Group Finance Director: Group Risk & Compliance the Committee considered the level of non-audit services being provided by Director: the Group Internal Audit Director and by representatives of the the Groups Auditors in order to satisfy itself that the objectivity and external Auditors.
independence of the Auditors were safeguarded The Chairman of the Committee is directly available to and holds regular February: Reviewed and approved the Representation Letter required by meetings with the Group Risk & Compliance Director, Deputy Company the Auditors Secretary, who acts as Secretary to the Committee, the Group Internal Audit February: Met with the Auditors independently of the Executive Directors Director and external Auditors.
and also separately met with the Group Risk and Business Assurance Director The external Auditor was tendered in July 2010 and therefore no tendering February: Update from Group Compliance and Group Risk and Business is expected to be undertaken in the medium term.
This resulted in a change Assurance including Group safety, health and environment of external Auditor at that time.
May and ongoing: Monitored the internal controls that are operated by The Auditors undertook various non-audit work such as assistance on acquisitions management to ensure the integrity of information reported to shareholders and bids across our business.
May: Discussion and update on the Anti-Bribery Act and the processes and Role and responsibilities policies implemented across the Group The Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in respect May: Review of business continuity planning and the plans within both the of the Company and the Group.
The Committees key responsibilities are: financial services and non-financial services businesses.
All plans were well i t o review the reporting of financial and other information to the established and emphasis was being driven on new contracts and acquisitions shareholders of the Company and monitor the integrity of the financial to bring the businesses to the same standard statements May: A full review of all risk maps was included for the Committee for each ii to review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit process, Division assess the independence of the Auditors and ensure appropriate policies and May: the terms of reference were reviewed and no amendments proposed procedures are in place to protect such independence July: Contract wins to date in the year were reviewed iii to review and assess the adequacy of the systems of internal control and risk management which includes monitoring the Companys Internal Audit function and monitor the risk profile of the business.
Governance C Cor orpor pora at te e G Go ov five er rn nan anc ce e Capita plc 68 Audit Committee report July: Review of Half Yearly Accounts for 2012.
This included consideration Statutory Auditors of both financial and non-financial aspects of the accounts The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups Auditors KPMG, October: A review of the split of Audit to non-audit fees was undertaken and it advises the Board on the appointment, independence and objectivity of the and noted Auditors and on the remuneration for both statutory audit and non-audit work.
It also discussed the nature, scope and timing of the statutory audit with the October: A review of the internal audits was undertaken and the schedule Auditors.
The Audit Committee annually performs an independent assessment of audits for the remainder of the year with a discussion on the headcount for of the suitability and performance of the Auditors in making its recommendation the area to the Board for their re-appointment.
October: Audit evaluation An evaluation of the Audit Committee had been The Committee discussed the performance of KPMG during the period and undertaken as part of the main board evaluation and the results were presented was satisfied that the level of communication and reporting was in line with to the Committee requirements.
The evaluation of KPMG also included the planning of the audit November: Report from the external Auditors on the audit planning and a post audit evaluation.
for the year-end audit process A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as the Auditors of the Company November: Presentation given to the Committee from Dawn Marriott-Sims on will be put forward at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
vetting procedures for areas working with vulnerable adults and children within The lead audit partner is rotated on a five-yearly basis.
In line with its responsibilities, the Committee reviewed the annual internal Disclosure of information to Auditors audit programme and ensured that the Group Internal Audit function was The Directors who held office at the date of the approval of this Directors report adequately sponsored and resourced.
The Group Internal Audit business plan confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information was presented to the Committee in October 2012 and approved at the meeting of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all in November 2012. steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware Ongoing: Reviewed a wide range of financial reporting and related matters during of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors the year, in addition to the review of the half year and annual accounts prior to are aware of that information.
their submission to the Board.
The Committee focused in particular on critical accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group and any significant areas of judgement that materially impact on reported results.
At each meeting an update was also received from Group Risk & Compliance and Group Internal Audit.
The Committee is also responsible for the policies on whistleblowing speak up and the provision of the non-audit services by the external Auditors.
Both policies are published on the Companys intranet.
The Committee also receives feedback from the Financial Services Risk & Governance Forum that brings together all the regulated areas within the Group.
Governance Corporate Governance Capita plc 69 Auditor independence Remuneration Committee The Committee takes seriously its responsibility to put in place safeguards Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities are given in the to Auditor objectivity and independence.
It has therefore established a policy Directors remuneration report on pages 78 to 89. on the provision of services by the Groups Auditors.
The policy describes the Board and Committee members, frequency of meetings and attendance circumstances in which the Auditors may be permitted to undertake non-audit During 2012 the Board met nine times, excluding ad hoc meetings, solely to deal work for the Group.
The Committee oversees compliance with the policy and with procedural matters.
The Nomination Committee and the Remuneration considers and approves requests to use the Auditors for non-audit work.
Any Committee met two and four times during the year, respectively.
The Audit assignment where the expected fee is above the relevant threshold requires Committee met six times during the year.
Attendance is recorded in the specific approval from the Committee or a member of the Committee.
table below: The Deputy Company Secretary deals with day-to-day administration of the policy, facilitating requests for approval by the Committee.
The policy is Nomination Remuneration reviewed by the Committee annually.
Details of audit and non-audit fees are Committee Committee Audit Committee Board meetings meetings meetings meetings given in note 7 on page 105.
Scheduled 9 2 4 6 The Company is committed to ensuring appropriate independence in its meetings relationship with the Auditors and the key safeguards are: Martin Bolland 9 2 the Group Finance Director monitors the independence of the Auditors as Paul Pindar 8 part of the Groups assessment of auditor effectiveness and reports to the Gordon Hurst 8 Audit Committee Andy Parker 8 the Audit Committee routinely benchmarks the level of the Group audit fee Vic Gysin 8 against other comparable companies both within and outside of the Groups Maggi Bell 8 sector, to ensure ongoing objectivity in the audit process Gillian Sheldon 3 1 2 2 the Group Finance Director monitors the level and nature of non-audit fees Paul Bowtell 9 2 4 6 accruing to the Auditors, and specific assignments are discussed in advance with the Auditors and flagged for the approval of the Audit Committee as Martina King 8 2 4 6 appropriate and in accordance with the Companys policy on the provision of Nigel Wilson 9 2 4 6 non-audit services by the Auditors.
The Audit Committee reviews, in aggregate, Paddy Doyle 3 - non-audit fees of this nature on a six monthly basis and considers implications Gillian Sheldons attendance at meetings were following her appointment in September 2012. for the objectivity and independence of the relationship with the Auditors Due to the nature of the acquisition and bid strategy, consideration of meeting Ensuring conflicts of interest are avoided is a fundamental criterion in the times has to include flexibility to hold meetings outside of this timetable and selection of any third party auditor for assignments with which the Group is meetings of this nature tend to be held by telephone.
Such conflicts may arise across public or private sector clients and key Any Directors absence from Board meetings or meetings of the Audit, supplier relationships, for example, and are a key determinant in the award Remuneration or Nomination Committees was previously agreed with the process for external audit assignments.
Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive or the Chair of the relevant committee.
Paul Bowtell Chairman Audit Committee Governance Corporate Governance Capita plc 70 Audit Committee report Dialogue with shareholders This process is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Groups key internal control procedures include the following: The Board encourages and seeks to build a mutual understanding of objectives between the Group and its shareholders.
As part of this process the Executive the Board has responsibility to set, communicate and monitor the application Directors make regular presentations and meet with institutional shareholders of policies, procedures and standards in areas including operations, finance, to discuss the Groups business model and growth strategy, address any issues legal, commercial and regulatory compliance, human resources and health and of concern, obtain feedback and consider corporate governance issues.
The Board safety, information security and property management and corporate social welcomes the revised UK Stewardship Code 2012 and the steps it has made to responsibility and the environment and these policies are cascaded to the improve engagement and purposeful dialogue between companies and investors.
businesses via the MOB review process and additional internal All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting and communication channels information for shareholders is available on the Companys website authority to operate the individual businesses comprising the Divisions that www.
All the Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with make up the Group who then delegate to Managing Directors, within limits set shareholders to understand their views more fully.
The Chairman is personally by the Group, including the recruitment of the underlying management teams.
available to the significant shareholders in the Group.
The Board establishes key operations, functional and financial reporting The Corporate Communications team has effective day-to-day responsibility standards for application across the whole Group and this is cascaded through for managing shareholder communications and always acts in close consultation the MOB review process.
These are supplemented by operational standards with the Board.
A Disclosure Committee consisting of the Corporate set by local management teams, as required for the type of business and Communications Director, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director ensures geographical location of each subsidiary and business unit all appropriate communications are made to the London Stock Exchange and comprehensive annual financial plans are prepared at the individual business shareholders.
Shareholders can also access up-to-date information through unit level and summarised at a Divisional and Group level.
Financial plans are the Groups website at www.
A telephone helpline, 0871 664 0300, reviewed and approved by the Board following challenge within the MOB provides a contact point directly to the Groups registrars.
Capital expenditure is subject to rigorous budgetary control All members of the Board, including the Non-Executive Directors, receive a report beyond specified levels and detailed written proposals have to be submitted on any significant discussions with shareholders and feedback that follows the to the Board.
Expenditure on acquisitions is the subject of appropriate annual and half-yearly presentations to investment analysts and shareholders.
consideration, review and approval by the Board.
Results are monitored All analyst reports concerning Capita are circulated to the Directors.
routinely by means of comprehensive management accounts and actual progress against plan is challenged directly by Executive Directors of the Board Directors, including the Chair of the various committees, are present at on a Group-wide basis and at the business unit level each month.
The Nonthe Annual General Meeting to answer any questions.
The Board particularly Executive Directors challenge the Executive Directors at each Board meeting encourages communication with and the participation of private investors at the Annual General Meeting.
a framework is in place to identify, assess and mitigate the major business risks, including credit, liquidity, operations, reputation, information security, Internal control regulatory and fraud.
The framework also includes specific provision for The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for risk-based due diligence in respect of business acquisitions and new customer regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
Procedures have been designed for, inter alia, contracts.
The Groups exposure to business risk is ultimately monitored by the the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use or disposition, maintaining Audit Committee proper accounting records and the reliability of financial information used within across many of the Groups businesses including all regulated financial services the business or for publication.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than businesses there are formally constituted risk committees.
These committees eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide provide an appropriate means to routinely monitor the risk profile for these reasonable and not absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
businesses, including regulatory risks, and for proposed mitigating actions to There is an ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks be challenged and tracked faced by the Group, which has been in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts.
Governance C Cor orpor pora at te e G Go ov five er rn nan anc ce e Capita plc 71 the Group Internal Audit function reports for administrative purposes to the Group Financial Services Risk & Governance Forum Group Finance Director and independently to the Audit Committee.
It is The Group Financial Services Risk & Governance Forum Forum was established separate and independent from the other functions and activities of the at the beginning of 2012 and meets at least quarterly to assess the risks across business.
It delivers a risk-based internal audit programme, to provide assurance Capitas financial services businesses.
The Forum is chaired by Tim Brooke, on the effectiveness of the internal control structures operating across the independent non-executive chair.
Membership includes Vic Gysin and Gordon business.
The annual audit programme is focused on areas of greatest risk to the Hurst with the Group Risk & Compliance Director and the Group Internal Audit Group, as determined by the Group risk framework, and an independent view of Director.
Other key divisional staff are invited to attend and report to this forum.
those risks is taken by the Group Internal Audit function.
In addition, risk and All Non-Executive Directors have open invitations to attend any of these meetings.
compliance matters are overseen by the Group Risk & Compliance Director The terms of reference for this Forum include: reporting through the Group Finance Director and independently to the Audit Reviewing and commenting upon Group control function oversight plans and Committee and the Group Financial Services Risk & Governance Forum.
monitoring progress of the same Dedicated risk and compliance teams within the relevant businesses independently monitor risk by way of risk-based work programmes and support Reviewing material findings arising from oversight activities and issues identified operations in identifying and mitigating regulatory risks as an integral part by management of the Group risk framework Tracking key regulatory changes impacting on the Groups regulated firms both the Group Risk & Compliance function and the Group Internal Audit Tracking key business developments, including bids, acquisitions and offshoring function routinely apprise the Groups senior management and the Audit developments Committee of their work programmes and findings.
Receiving updates on regulatory capital issues e. g. ICAAP The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of this system of internal control.
Reviewing and adopting policies applicable to the financial services businesses The key mechanisms used by the Board to achieve this include regular MOB Identifying items for the attention of the Board or Audit Committee.
review reports, periodic updates from the Audit Committee based on its review of risk management, business assurance and compliance reports by the relevant The scope of the Forum includes the FSA in the UK and the equivalent financial Group functions: discussions with and reports from the external auditors and services regulator in other jurisdictions where the Group operates regulated other advisers.
Through the above mechanisms, the Board and the Audit Committee have The Forum met six times in 2012 and attendance was as follows: performed a Group-wide review of the effectiveness of the internal control Number of system, including financial and operational controls and risk management Name of Forum member meetings attended in accordance with the Code for the period from 1 January 2012 to the date 1 Tim Brooke 4 of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board and the Audit Vic Gysin 4 Committee were satisfied with the process of monitoring the effectiveness of Gordon Hurst 5 internal controls and that it complies with the Internal Control Guidance for Chris Terry Group Risk & Compliance Director 6 Directors in the Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England 2 and Wales and in the revised Turnbull Guidance 2005.
Clive Smith Group Internal Audit Director 2 3 Risk management and governance is also referred to on pages 36 to 39.
David Edwards Group Risk & Business Assurance Director 4 1 Appointed April 2012 2 Appointed July 2012 3 Resigned June 2012
