Governance C Cor orpor pora at te e G Go ov five er rn nan anc ce e Capita plc 61 Corporate governance report Chairmans report In September we were pleased to appoint Gillian Sheldon as Non-Executive Director and appoint her as Senior Independent Director from 1 January 2013.
I am pleased to present to you this report on the work of the Capita Board during Her experience at Credit Suisse advising boards on a wide range of complex 2012.
This section of the Report and Accounts pages 58 to 89 together with the transactions brings additional strength to the Board.
I believe that we have a business review which includes sections: A snapshot of our business and Our talented and strong team in place on the Group Board and across our divisional business on pages 1 to 57 form the Directors Report.
management team to support our continued growth as a Group.
I continue to be impressed by the Boards commitment to the highest standard In order that the Board can ensure that the strategic direction and growth of the of corporate governance and, most importantly, how this works within the Group can continue successfully and with the appropriate risk oversight, meetings structure of the whole organisation without being overly cumbersome.
are held individually between the Group Risk & Compliance Director and the It is vital that a Board balances its time between strategy and oversight, as this Group Internal Audit Director with the Chairman of the Audit Committee responsibility is given to them by the shareholders, but consideration of all its throughout the year as well as the normal scheduled meetings.
Risks are stakeholders is also important.
I believe that this balance is managed well within identified in a number of ways and are prioritised and delegated in accordance Capita at Board, divisional and business unit level.
with the risk ratings provided.
Results for 2012 Approximate allocation of agenda time in 2012 Capita has had a strong sales year securing new major contracts and has During the year the Boards discussions have been wide-ranging, including: continued to perform well in challenging trading conditions, achieving revenue strategy, acquisitions, finance, placement of shares, corporate reporting, growth of 14%, underlying operating profit growth of 10%, and an underlying operational performance and risk and internal audit.
The work of the Board EPS growth of 10%.
During 2012 we were selected as preferred bidder with is shown in the diagram below.
Staffordshire County Council to initially deliver a range of educational services for schools and academies in this region.
This is expected to generate circa 85m of revenue per annum over 20 years and is the single largest contract win Other 5% in Capitas history.
Corporate reporting 5% Strategy 15% Board activities in 2012 During 2012 the Board discussed a range of items as well as the business as usual Bids 15% of strategy, risk and oversight of the Group.
The Group has undertaken a large Risk 15% number of acquisitions and had its best year on record for securing new and renewed major contracts.
In April we undertook a placing of 40 million shares.
This has enabled us to pursue Acquisitions 15% acquisitions whilst maintaining an efficient balance sheet.
We have a strong track Finance 10% record of generating valuable returns from our acquisitions and they play a key role in opening up new markets and helping us to secure new contracts.
Operations 20% The Board and committee meetings are structured, and agendas drawn up accordingly, to cover the wide range of matters that are brought to their attention and the meetings are aligned with the financial calendar of the Company: this ensures that appropriate focus can be given to the items brought to their attention.
Governance Corporate Governance Capita plc 62 Corporate governance report Strategy Board evaluation in 2012 A specific session to review the Groups strategy in detail is held each year.
During 2012 a full external evaluation of the Board was undertaken by Genius Strategy is also a standing item at each Board meeting.
The diverse nature of the Methods, an external provider with no previous connection with Capita.
The business means that we must continue to be adaptable to the opportunities and evaluation was questionnaire based and covered the Board, governance review and challenges that face us, our clients and our stakeholders.
Risk is considered side by the Audit Committee.
The topics covered within the evaluation included risk, board side with strategy and is included in our operational reporting.
The questions were discussed with the Senior Independent Director and the questionnaire was agreed with the external provider, Board members reporting myself and the Deputy Company Secretary.
The evaluation was entirely administered All Executive Directors prepare and present a report at each Board meeting.
The participants included all Board members and comments These include the key issues including risk and opportunity, operational and and observations from regular attendees at the Audit Committee such as the Group financial performance and bid and acquisition activity.
These reports are then Financial Controller, Group Risk & Compliance Director, Group Internal Audit Director complemented with verbal updates at the meeting.
This allows the Directors to and the external Auditors were also factored into the final analysis.
focus on specific issues and also for the other Directors to debate and challenge The evaluation report analysed the responses, drew on above comments and was as required.
See management and governance structure on page 36. presented to the Deputy Company Secretary and myself by the provider.
Financial and corporate reporting The report continued the theme from our previous evaluations and recognised The Board considers the Groups statutory reports and the broader aspects of the strong governance process within the Board and the strength of the dynamics corporate reporting at each scheduled meeting.
Regular updates are received on that exist between strategic challenge and strategic focus amongst Executive and the financial results from Gordon Hurst and Paul Pindar, which also include the Non-Executive Directors.
financial outlook for the Group.
The results of the evaluation were once again very positive and the final report was presented, without amendment, to the Board in October 2012.
A small Major bids and acquisitions number of minor follow-up matters were identified and are being resolved.
Maggi Bell, Business Development Director, presents a report at each Board meeting As part of our Board evaluation process, a series of meetings were held with the which covers the current major bid strategy, constituents of the bid pipeline bids over Non-Executives and the Senior Independent Director and also all members of the 25m in value where we are shortlisted to four or fewer and prospects which are Board to discuss my own performance.
The views of the Executive Directors were sitting just outside of the bid pipeline.
As many of these potential contracts are of taken into consideration by the Non-Executives as part of the evaluation.
I was not significant size and duration, these opportunities can make a significant impact on the present at either meeting.
A meeting of the Non-Executives without the Executive shape and resource requirements of the Group as it grows.
I met with all members of the Board individually and regularly Paul Pindar reports on the acquisition strategy and current acquisition activity in during the year to receive feedback and discuss current and long term opportunities.
addition to his Chief Executive report.
Consideration of the Board balance is kept under regular review by the Chief Following the contract wins of Barnet and Staffordshire and the acquisitions made Executive and myself.
during the period, a review has been undertaken of the Divisional senior management and changes and adaptations made to meet the changing resource requirements of the Group.
In order to meet these requirements the Board identifies candidates from within the Group or externally for key positions in the transition periods and ongoing delivery of these operations.
Governance Corporate Governance Capita plc 63 Risk & Compliance and Internal Audit Compliance with the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code This year, following the departure of the Group Risk & Business Assurance Director, we decided to combine the role of Risk & Compliance and separate the Capita plc and its subsidiaries the Group continue to be committed to Internal Audit function from Risk.
We believe that this better aligns the various maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
The UK Corporate processes with the operational activities.
Governance Code 2010 the Code applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 will apply to Both the Group Risk & Compliance Director and the Group Internal Audit accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012, however we have Director report to the Group Finance Director and independently to the Audit chosen to comply with the majority of this as well as the Code detailed above Committee.
Both report on the internal audit programme and risk and together the Codes.
A copy of both Codes are available from the Financial compliance management activities across the Group.
They have access to all Reporting Councils website www.
Throughout the accounting period members of the Board and hold regular meetings with the Executive Directors to which this report relates, the Company applied all of the principles set out in and meet with the Audit Committee Chairman and myself at least quarterly.
Sections A to E of the Code except as detailed below: See pages 36 to 39.
Code provision Area of non-compliance Position at 31 December 2012 Directors B.
1.2 Composition of During the period the Board The balance was 5 Executive The Directors of the Company currently in office are listed on pages 59 and 60. the Board had an imbalance of Executive Directors and 4 Independent As explained in our 2011 report and accounts, Paddy Doyle retired from the Board Directors to Independent Non-Executive Directors and at the end of March 2012.
Nigel Wilson resigned from the Board at the end of Non-Executive Directors.
As noted above, the balance of independent Non-Executives to Executives is not At the end of August we were pleased to announce the appointment of Gillian equal.
However, in accordance with the Codes, B.
1 Supporting Principles the Sheldon as an independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 September Board needs to be appropriate in size and experience to manage the complexities 2012 and as Senior Independent Director from 1 January 2013.
As explained in her it faces.
We believe that the number of our Board Directors and their range of biography on page 59 Gillian is currently a senior banker at Credit Suisse.
Gillian skills are appropriate for the scale and scope of the business and to ensure has substantial experience of advising boards across a wide range of complex effective Board processes.
The Board has the broad range of experience that is situations and transactions.
Gillian joined Credit Suisse in 1997 having worked essential to ensure effective execution of strategy and management of risk, whilst for seven years at NM Rothschild & Sons.
Gillian is also a Trustee of BBC Children also ensuring that the balance of skills is appropriate for the committees.
Our in Need, appointed in September 2012.
Gillian brings to Capita a wealth of Executives recognise all of their responsibilities and do not solely represent the experience gained from advising clients across a broad range of sectors, she has a activities they have within the Group which adds to open and constructive strong financial background and a record of business performance.
Her skills and debate, as well as demonstrating the overall strength of the Board.
experience have added further depth to the Board.
This area of non-compliance is expected to remain throughout 2013.
No Director has a service contract exceeding one year.
For each appointment the Board undertook a formal appointment process, led by All the Board will stand for re-election Gillian Sheldon for election at the the Nomination Committee and, where appropriate, the assistance of forthcoming AGM.
All of the Board have received a formal performance independent external search consultants.
evaluation and each Director continues to be effective and to demonstrate their commitment to the role.
Board changes in the year The following pages in this section consist of our corporate governance and There were the following changes to the Board during the year.
I hope that you will find these and the entire Annual Paddy Doyle retired at the end of March 2012.
Nigel Wilson resigned at the end of Report and Accounts informative and the Board will be happy to receive any December 2012 and Gillian Sheldon was appointed as an Independent Nonfeedback you may have.
Executive Director in September 2012 and was appointed Senior Independent Director from 1 January 2013.
Martin Bolland Non-Executive Chairman Governance Corporate Governance Capita plc 64 Corporate governance report Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Role of the Board January 2012 Paul Pindar Martin Bolland The Companies Act 2006 requires Directors to act in a way they consider, in good Gordon Hurst Nigel Wilson faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of shareholders as a whole.
In doing so, the Directors must have regard amongst Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell other matters to: Vic Gysin Martina King the likely consequences of any decision in the long term Andy Parker Paddy Doyle the interests of the Companys employees the need to foster business relationships with suppliers, customers and others Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors the impact of the Companys operations on the community and the December 2012 Paul Pindar Martin Bolland environment Gordon Hurst Nigel Wilson the desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell business conduct Vic Gysin Martina King the need to act fairly between shareholders of the Company.
Andy Parker Gillian Sheldon In addition to their statutory duties, the Directors must ensure that the Board focuses effectively on all its accountabilities.
Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors The Board determines the strategic objectives and policies of the Group to best January 2013 Paul Pindar Martin Bolland support the delivery of long term value, providing overall strategic direction Gordon Hurst Gillian Sheldon within an appropriate framework of rewards, incentives and controls.
The Board is Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell collectively responsible for the success of the Company: the Executive Directors Vic Gysin Martina King are directly responsible for running the business operations and the NonAndy Parker Executive Directors are responsible for bringing independent judgement and scrutiny to decisions taken by the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors must Independent in accordance with the Code.
satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that financial Board leadership controls and systems of risk management are robust.
Following presentations by Consistent with previous years, the Board continues to support the need to executive and divisional management and a disciplined process of review and segregate the responsibility for operating the Board and managing the underlying challenge by the Board, clear decisions on policy or strategy are adopted, and the business.
Martin Bollands role as Non-Executive Chairman and Paul Pindars role executive management are fully empowered to implement those decisions.
as Chief Executive are separate.
Martin Bolland as Chairman and Nigel Wilson as Senior Independent Director also held meetings solely comprising the Non-Executive Directors during 2012.
Both Martin and Gillian are also available to meet with shareholders when requested.
Governance Corporate Governance Capita plc 65 Board independence Following the appointment of Gillian Sheldon to the Board in September 2012, training was given in respect of her role as a Non-Executive Director.
This included Non-Executive Directors are required to be independent in character and meetings and briefings with the Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Group judgement.
All relationships that may materially interfere with this judgement are Financial Controller, Group Risk & Compliance Director, Group Internal Audit disclosed as required under the conflicts of interest policy.
The Board has Director and the Deputy Company Secretary.
Gillian also spent an afternoon determined that all the Non-Executive Directors who served during the year were meeting all the key heads of department in Finance.
independent and before and upon appointment as Chairman, Martin Bolland met the criteria of independence as outlined in the Codes.
Ongoing training and briefings are also given to all Directors, including external courses as required.
Provision B1.1 of the Codes suggests that serving more than nine years could be relevant to the determination of a Non-Executive Directors independence.
Company Secretary Martina King was appointed on 1 January 2005 and therefore is serving her ninth All Board members have access to independent advice on any matters relating to year with Capita.
The Board continue to believe that she is independent in their responsibilities as Directors and as members of the various committees of character and judgement.
She continues to bring challenge and rigour to the Board at the Groups expense.
Board discussions and her high degree of knowledge and understanding of The Company Secretary, Gordon Hurst, who is also the Group Finance Director, the Company are of great benefit to shareholders and add significantly to the is available to all Directors and he is responsible for ensuring that all Board strength of the Board.
As with the Board composition and ongoing The Board does not believe that a Non-Executives tenure materially interferes requirements, this is regularly reviewed.
with their ability to act in the best interests of the Group.
The Board also believes The duties of the Company Secretary continue to grow with the increase in size that each of the Non-Executives has retained independence of character and and diversity of the Groups activities and legislative changes.
judgement and has not formed associations with management or others that may compromise their ability to exercise independent judgement or act in the To assist in this area, the Deputy Company Secretary coordinates and manages best interests of the Group.
the provision of share registration, company secretarial services and share plans to the Group on behalf of Gordon Hurst.
The Deputy Company Secretary has The Board is satisfied that no conflict of interest exists for any Director.
This direct access and responsibility to the Chairs of the standing committees matter is a standing agenda item.
and open access to all the Directors.
The Deputy Company Secretary has been Board Directors inductions and training appointed as Secretary to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees Following appointment to the Board all new Directors receive an induction to ensure that there are no conflicts of interest.
The Deputy Company Secretary tailored to their individual requirements.
They are encouraged to meet and be meets regularly with the Chairman, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and briefed on the roles of key people across the Group and have open access to all the Chair of the Remuneration Committee and briefs them on areas of business areas and employees to build up an appropriate level of knowledge of governance and committee requirements.
the business that extends beyond formal papers and presentations to the Board.
The Board continues to keep the Company Secretary role under review, but All Directors have received an appropriate induction for their roles within Capita.
feels that the combination of the roles continues to work well for the business These have included familiarisation with: as a whole.
terms of reference for all committees and matters reserved for the Board overviews of the business via Monthly Operations Business MOB reports the Group approach to risk management.
Governance Corporate Governance Capita plc 66 Corporate governance report Committees terms of reference The Committee is also authorised under its terms of reference to obtain the advice of independent search consultants.
The terms of reference for the The terms of reference of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Nomination Committee can be found on the Groups website at Committees were reviewed during the year.
The terms of reference are www.
summarised in the table below and displayed in full in the investor centre at www.
co. uk investors along with the matters reserved for the Board.
The Committee reports and makes recommendations to the Board in relation to its activities and deliberations.
The Committees key responsibilities are: Nomination Remuneration Terms of reference Committee Audit Committee Committee to identify and nominate appropriate candidates for appointment to the Board, having due regard to the provisions of the Code and, in particular, the balance Brief description of Reviews composition Reviews accounting Sets the policy for responsibilities of the Board.
policies and the Executive Directors of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and the diversity of Recommends contents of financial and senior executives its composition appointment of new reports.
to keep the structure and size of the Board and the leadership needs of the Directors.
Considers internal control Approves individual succession plans for environment.
organisation under review and ensure that plans are in place for orderly Chairman and Considers the Agrees changes to succession and appointment to the Board Executive positions.
adequacy and scope senior executive to review the time commitment required from Non-Executive Directors, the Monitors corporate of the external and incentive plans.
performance of Directors and all declarations of interest made by Board members governance issues.
internal audit Approves the policy The Group diversity programme.
Oversees on remuneration for to consider the Group Diversity Statement.
statement is reviewed the relationship with FSA regulated firms and recommended by our external auditors.
and also reviews and Committee activities during 2012 this committee.
Monitors risk profile approves the During the year Gillian Sheldon was appointed to the Board as an Independent and obtains assurance Remuneration Policy that principal risks Statement in respect Non-Executive Director.
Prior to recommending the appointment for approval, have been properly of the FSA the Committee conducted a rigorous review of the size and structure of the Board identified and Remuneration Code.
and the balance and range of its Directors knowledge and experience.
For this appropriately appointment neither an external search agency nor open advertising was used.
Martin Bolland continues to review opportunities for the Board on an ongoing Membership of the committees basis and directly approached Gillian for this post following a recommendation.
Membership of the Companys standing committees at the end of the year is During the year the Nomination Committee has also considered succession shown below: planning for the Board more generally.
Given that all Directors will be retiring at the Annual General Meeting the Martin Bolland Gillian Sheldon Martina King Paul Bowtell Nigel Wilson performance of all Directors, their interests and any potential conflicts of interest Nomination C x x x x x declared to the Company were reviewed.
Audit x x C x x The Committee considered many issues, such as length of service and conflicts Remuneration x C x x x of interest, and how these may have an impact on the independence of the C Chair Non-Executives.
The Committee also considers diversity on the Board and this is detailed further on page 72 of this report.
Nomination Committee The time committed by the Non-Executives was also considered and this The Nomination Committee in 2012 comprised Martin Bolland Committee remained appropriate to ensure that each discharged their duties and Chairman, Nigel Wilson, Martina King, Paul Bowtell and Gillian Sheldon responsibilities effectively.
Paddy Doyle was a member of the Committee until his retirement.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and is available to assist the members of the Committee as required, ensuring that timely and accurate information is distributed accordingly.
