224233 RIT R&A pp18-pp27 31 05 2012 22:10 Page 18 Corporate Governance Report Introduction The Directors present the Companys Corporate The Board is responsible for setting the Companys Governance Report.
The biographies of the Directors strategic aims for its long-term success and ensuring and executive management on the pages immediately that the necessary resources are in place to these preceding this Report demonstrate a strength of ends, delegating as appropriate to the Companys experience in the areas required to oversee and executive management.
In general terms, the implement the Companys strategic, investment and executive management of the Company is responsible operational aims.
Many of the Directors hold or have for the implementation and execution of the Boards held senior director positions at prominent investment strategic directives relating to investment management, banks, asset management companies, or at audit the Companys governance and administration.
firms specialising in the asset management industry.
The Board met formally on eight occasions in the year In addition, there are Directors with considerable ended 31 March 2012.
The attendance of the Directors experience beyond these areas, including Government holding office on 31 March 2012 was as follows: and general commercial organisations.
of meetings This report is split into two sections.
This first section Member invited to attend attended describes the Companys principal governance Lord Rothschild 8 8 bodies, their composition, purpose and operation.
The Mikael Breuer-Weil 8 8 second section starting on page 90 covers the other Michael Marks 8 7 aspects of the Companys governance prescribed John Cornish 8 7 under the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Lord Douro 8 8 Code to which the Company is subject and which Jean Laurent-Bellue may be viewed at www.
The Directors appointed March 2012 1 1 believe that the Company has complied with the James Leigh-Pemberton 8 7 provisions of the Code throughout the year, except as Lord Myners 8 8 described on pages 90 and 91.
Sandra Robertson 8 6 The Board of Directors Rick Sopher 8 7 The Company is an investment trust managed by its Bill Winters Board of Directors the Board currently comprising appointed October 2011 2 2 eleven Directors, two of whom including the Chairman are Executive Directors.
Three Directors are nonThe non-executive Directors participate in discussions independent and non-executive and the remaining six regarding the Companys strategy and performance.
They also meet once a year without Executive Directors present to consider the conclusions of the The Board has a formal Schedule of Reserved annual Board evaluation exercise and the Matters, which may be viewed on the Companys performance of the Chairman.
This is designed to prescribe the responsibilities of the Board in In addition, there are five permanent Board managing the Companys business within a committees a majority of whose membership is framework of prudent and effective controls to comprised of non-executive Directors.
facilitate assessment and management of risk.
The composition of these committees is set out below.
Each committee has its own Terms of Reference which may be viewed on the Companys website.
18 Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc | Overview | Business Review | | Financial Statements | Other Information | Governance 224233 RIT R&A pp18-pp27 31 05 2012 22:10 Page 19 Corporate Governance Report Committee Membership Audit and Risk Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee John Cornish Chairman Lord Rothschild Chairman Lord Douro Chairman James Leigh-Pemberton Lord Douro John Cornish Lord Myners James Leigh-Pemberton James Leigh-Pemberton Michael Marks Michael Marks Conflicts Committee Valuation Committee Lord Douro Chairman John Cornish Chairman John Cornish Lord Myners James Leigh-Pemberton Sandra Robertson Michael Marks The Audit and Risk Committee independence of the audit team from the Company is not compromised.
Non-audit services provided by The Audit and Risk Committee comprises three nonexecutive Directors, all of whom are independent of  LLP in the year ended the Company.
It is chaired by John Cornish, a former 31 March 2012 were primarily in relation to corporate partner at Deloitte LLP.
John is the chairman of the advisory and taxation services.
Further information is audit committees of three other public companies, contained in note 4 of the Financial Statements.
and is considered by the Board to have appropriate The Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial experience.
Companys whistleblowing procedures for staff to The Audit Committee was renamed the Audit and Risk follow in the event that they might have any concerns Committee on 1 April 2011 to reflect the expansion about possible improprieties in matters of financial of its remit and focus on the identification and reporting or other matters.
The procedures in place management of risk covering principally operational, provide for staff to have direct recourse to the Audit financial, reputational and regulatory matters.
and Risk Committee, through its Chairman.
As part of this role the Committee monitors the risk Further information relating to the operation of the profile and tolerance acceptable to the Company and Committee and its role in risk management is set by the Board in delivering the business strategy, included on pages 92 and 93. and ensures this is communicated appropriately within The Committee met formally on four occasions in the the Company.
Members of the Committee receive year ended 31 March 2012 with attendance as follows: monthly reports detailing investment exposure as well No.
of meetings as currency and liquidity positioning.
Member invited to attend attended The Committee meets at least twice each year to John Cornish 4 4 review the Companys interim and annual financial James Leigh-Pemberton 4 3 statements, to consider reports thereon from the Lord Myners 4 4 external audit process and to review any issues arising with the Companys management.
The Conflicts Committee The Conflicts Committee meets at least once a year The Committee also meets on separate and dedicated on a formal, scheduled basis and on other occasions occasions to review the effectiveness of the Companys as and when required.
The Committee is chaired by system of internal controls by reference to reports Lord Douro.
The Committees principal responsibilities prepared and compiled by management.
The remaining cover proposed co-investment related party matters in the Audit and Risk Committees Terms of transactions and the approvals of cost sharing Reference are considered as and when necessary.
arrangements with parties related to Lord Rothschild or any other Director as described in Note 30.
The Committee monitors the adequacy of the Groups The Committee is responsible for monitoring and accounting policies and financial reporting, which are pre-approving any arrangements entered into between discussed with the external auditors.
The Committee the Company and any of its Directors, or their also considers the external auditors independence, connected interests, to ensure that any conflicts of objectivity and the cost effectiveness of the audit interest are avoided or pre-approved and managed process.
The level of non-audit services provided to the appropriately.
Company by the auditors is monitored as is the auditors objectivity in providing such services to ensure that the RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 19 224233 RIT R&A pp18-pp27 31 05 2012 22:10 Page 20 Corporate Governance Report The attendance record of the members in the year to The Committee met formally on two occasions in 31 March 2012 was as follows: relation to the year ended 31 March 2012, with attendance as follows: No.
of meetings Member invited to attend attended No.
of meetings Member invited to attend attended Lord Douro 1 1 John Cornish 1 1 John Cornish 2 2 Sandra Robertson 2 2 James Leigh-Pemberton 1 1 Lord Myners 2 2 Michael Marks 1 1 The Remuneration Committee The Nominations Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises four nonThe Nominations Committee comprises four executive Directors, all of whom are independent.
The Directors, three of whom are independent and nonCommittee is chaired by Lord Douro.
The Committee executive and the fourth is Lord Rothschild, who is meets at least once each year on a formal basis, and the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee on additional occasions as may be required.
Its meets at least once a year on a formal basis, and on primary responsibilities include the creation and additional occasions as required.
Its remit, as set out maintenance of remuneration policies designed to in its Terms of Reference, includes leading the attract, retain and motivate Directors and senior process for appointments to the Board, to ensure that management appropriately.
It is also the responsibility appointments are made on merit and against of the Committee to determine the policy for the objective criteria and to review the suitability of those pension arrangements of the Executive Directors.
Directors who are standing for re-election.
The Committee also monitors the composition of the The Committee reviews the total remuneration Board on an ongoing basis, with a view to succession packages of the Executive Directors and senior planning, Board diversity and the maintenance of an management, ensuring an appropriate balance appropriate balance of skills and experience within between fixed and performance-related elements.
the Company and on the Board.
This exercise is conducted in part by reference to Appropriate Board diversity in all its forms, including other companies of similar size and business gender, is important to ensure the optimum range of objectives.
The Remuneration Committee receives the perspective in decision making.
The policy of the advice of New Bridge Street.
The Committee is also Nominations Committee in refreshing the composition responsible for monitoring the fees paid to the nonof the Board is to consider Board diversity, including on executive Directors, by reference to the roles and time grounds of gender, as central to its Director selection commitment of each individual concerned, although process, alongside the relevance and appropriateness the final determination of the fees payable to nonof candidates experience.
executive Directors is a matter for the Board of Directors as a whole.
The attendance record of the members of the Committee in the year to 31 March 2012 was as follows: The attendance of the members at the two meetings of the Committee in the year to 31 March 2012 was No.
of meetings Member invited to attend attended as follows: Lord Rothschild 1 1 No.
of meetings Lord Douro 1 1 Member invited to attend attended James Leigh-Pemberton 1 1 Lord Douro 2 2 Michael Marks 1 1 John Cornish 2 2 James Leigh-Pemberton 2 2 Michael Marks 2 2 The Valuation Committee At 31 March 2012, the Valuation Committee comprised The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee three Directors, all of whom were independent nonpresents the Directors Remuneration Report on pages executive Directors.
The Committee is chaired by John 21 to 27.
The Committee meets at least twice each year and additionally as may be required.
Its principal Additional disclosures relating to the Companys responsibility is to review the Companys unquoted corporate governance arrangements are contained in investments to ensure they are presented in the the second part of this Report, which starts on page 90. annual and half-yearly accounts at fair value.
20 Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc
