224233 RIT R&A pp88-pp94 31 05 2012 22:09 Page 90 Corporate Governance Report Additional Disclosures This second section of the Corporate Governance are properly briefed on issues arising at Board report also forms part of the Directors Report and meetings.
He is also responsible for ensuring covers the additional disclosures required under the effective communication with shareholders, making Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Directors aware of any concerns raised by Authority and the UK Corporate Governance shareholders and for facilitating the full and effective Code 2010. contribution of the non-executive Directors.
The Company has not complied with the following Board Balance And Independence provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, as The Board is comprised of eleven Directors of whom explained below.
two are executive, three are non-independent and non-executive and six are non-executive and A.
2.1 Chairman has executive responsibilities independent.
This balance is intended to limit the B.
2.3 Non-executive directors are not appointed for scope for an individual, or a small group of individuals, specified terms to dominate the Boards decision-making.
More than half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, therefore B.
2.4 External search consultancies and open comprise non-executive Directors determined by the advertising are not used in the appointment of Board to be independent.
non-executive directors The size and composition of the Board is considered Chairman with Executive Responsibilities to be suitable for the Companys size and business, Lord Rothschild is both Chairman of the Board and an whilst not being so large as to be unwieldy.
The Board recognises that this is at variance with the recommendations of the Code, Appointments To The Board which are concerned with the potential problems of The Nominations Committee is responsible for the combining the running of the Board with the executive process of appointment of new Directors to the responsibility for the running of the Company.
The Board, through the Nominations Board believes that the current arrangements are Committee, recognises the need to consider, on an appropriate for a self-managed investment trust and ongoing basis, the appointment of new Directors to are in the best interests of the Company and its bring fresh impetus, diversity and objectivity.
Such shareholders on an ongoing basis.
The Company has appointments will be made on merit and ability to in place a structure of permanent board committees, devote such time as is necessary to the position, as described on pages 19 and 20, which are designed to described in each Directors letter of appointment.
devolve responsibility and control of certain key areas The Committee will also be mindful of succession of Board responsibility away from the Chairman.
The planning and board balance and diversity when Audit and Risk Committee, the Conflicts Committee, recommending future appointments to the Board.
the Remuneration Committee and the Valuation Neither open advertising nor external search Committee are comprised entirely of independent consultancies have been used for non-executive non-executive Directors.
Whilst the Nominations Director appointments in the past, as the Board and Committee is chaired by Lord Rothschild, independent Nominations Committee identify and assess non-executive Directors represent a majority of its candidates on the basis of their potential contribution members.
The Board is therefore of the view that the to the Company.
Company is not at risk from a concentration of power caused by the Chairman having executive Non-executive Directors are not appointed for responsibilities and believes that Lord Rothschild is specified terms.
As all Directors stand for re-election well qualified for both roles.
annually, neither the Nominations Committee nor the Board consider that such contractual limitations As Chairman, Lord Rothschild is responsible for the would be in the best interests of the Company.
leadership of the Board and its effectiveness in dealing with the matters reserved for its decision with Appropriate training on listed company governance adequate time for discussion.
This includes ensuring and on the Company is provided to new Directors on a culture of openness and debate and that Directors their first appointment.
90 Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc | Overview | Business Review | Governance | Financial Statements | | Other Information 224233 RIT R&A pp88-pp94 31 05 2012 22:09 Page 91 Corporate Governance Report Additional Disclosures Information and Professional Development Re-Election of Directors The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the The UK Corporate Governance Code incorporates a Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information requirement that all directors of FTSE 350 companies through the Company Secretary, JRCM.
This is should be put forward for re-election every year.
All effected through regular oral and written Directors of the Company stood for election or recommunication, including detailed papers provided for election at the Companys 2011 Annual General each of the Companys scheduled Board and Board Meeting and this will be repeated at the 2012 Annual committee meetings.
Such communication is intended General Meeting.
The Notice of Annual General to update Directors knowledge and familiarity with the Meeting is enclosed on pages 95 to 98, and the Company and its business, to enable them to fulfil their summary of AGM business is contained in the respective roles on the Board or its committees.
The Explanatory Notes on pages 99 to 101.
Directors have access to the Company Secretary for Following the performance evaluation of the Board advice and services.
The Chairman, the Nominations described above, it is confirmed that the performance Committee and the Company Secretary have of each Director standing for re-election continues to formulated a full, formal and tailored induction process be satisfactory.
The re-election of each of the for new Directors on their joining the Board.
Directors standing at the forthcoming Annual General All Directors are entitled to take independent Meeting is therefore recommended by the Board.
professional advice, including legal advice, at the Relations With Shareholders Companys expense where they judge it necessary to The Board and executive management maintain a discharge their responsibilities as Directors, up to a dialogue with both institutional shareholders and maximum of 25,000 per annum.
analysts and also respond promptly to other The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring shareholders enquiries.
Shareholders are invited to that Board procedures and applicable rules and ask questions at the Annual General Meeting and, as regulations are complied with and for advising the far as is practicable, the chairmen of the Boards Board, through the Chairman, on corporate committees and the other Directors will be available governance matters.
to answer any questions from shareholders.
Performance Evaluation Apart from when the Company is in a closed period, The Code requires the Company to report on the its net asset value is disclosed on a monthly basis to means by which performance evaluation of the the London Stock Exchange to enable shareholders Board, its committees and its individual Directors has and analysts to follow the progress of the Company.
In the year to 31 March 2012, a The Company also maintains a website at questionnaire was completed by the Directors www.
com where shareholders have access to covering the processes, efficiency and composition of the latest monthly financial data released by the each of the Board, its committees and the Directors.
Company, together with historical information and The summarised responses were evaluated and financial statements.
considered by the Board and separately by the non-executive Directors in a meeting without any Executive Directors being present.
Under the Code, the evaluation of the boards of FTSE 350 companies is required to be externally facilitated at least every three years.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 91 224233 RIT R&A pp88-pp94 31 05 2012 22:09 Page 92 Corporate Governance Report Additional Disclosures Accountability and Audit Principal Risks and their Management Statement of Directors Responsibilities The principal risks facing RIT incorporate both The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial risks and operational risks.
The ongoing Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report process for identifying, evaluating and managing and the financial statements in accordance with these risks is the responsibility of the Board and the applicable law and regulations.
Audit and Risk Committee in conjunction with the relevant executives.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under As an investment company, RIT is exposed to that law the Directors have elected to prepare the financial risks inherent in its portfolio which are Group and Parent company financial statements in primarily market-related and common to any portfolio accordance with International Financial Reporting predominantly invested in equities.
These financial Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
risks include market risk price risk, interest rate risk Under company law the Directors must not approve and currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Details the financial statements unless they are satisfied that of the overall approach to portfolio risk management, they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the specific categories of financial risks and their the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss management are set out in the Investment Directors of the Group for that period.
In preparing these Review on page 10 and in note 28 on pages 65 to 80. financial statements, the Directors are required to: In relation to the financial risk management, detailed select suitable accounting policies and then apply portfolio valuations are prepared each week which them consistently: form the basis for the ongoing risk control decisions regarding asset allocation and exposure to market risk, make judgements and accounting estimates that credit risk and liquidity risk.
On a regular basis, detailed are reasonable and prudent: scenario modelling is undertaken to assess likely downside risks as well as assessing the underlying state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the correlations amongst the separate asset classes.
European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in In addition, the Board is responsible for monitoring the financial statements: the Companys strategy to ensure it is appropriate to meet the Companys Corporate Objective by prepare the financial statements on a going following the Companys Investment Policy.
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
Operational risks include those related to legal, regulatory, taxation and other areas where internal or The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate external factors could result in financial or accounting records that are sufficient to show and reputational loss.
explain the Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position The Audit and Risk Committee, working with the of the Company and the Group and enable them to Chief Risk Officer, is responsible for ensuring that an ensure that the financial statements and the appropriate system of risk management and internal Directors' Remuneration Report comply with the controls is in place.
This is described in more detail on Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group page 19.
As part of this approach, an internal audit of financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
selected areas is undertaken on an annual basis by They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets the Compliance Officer.
Where required of the Company and the Group and hence for taking improvements are identified, timetables are agreed reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of for implementing these and progress is monitored fraud and other irregularities.
Further information is set out below on page 93.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
92 Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc | Overview | Business Review | Governance | Financial Statements | | Other Information 224233 RIT R&A pp88-pp94 31 05 2012 22:09 Page 93 Corporate Governance Report Additional Disclosures Internal Control Control Environment The Board of Directors is responsible for the Groups The Group has established an organisational structure system of internal control although it has delegated which allocates defined levels of authority and the supervision of the system to the Audit and Risk reporting responsibility in respect of the operational, Committee.
Such systems are designed to manage, compliance, financial and taxation affairs of the Group rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve to a small number of senior executives who meet business objectives and, as such, can provide only regularly to discuss matters of importance to the reasonable and not absolute assurance against any Group.
The Board has Social, Environmental and Ethical SEE delegated to executive management the Responsibility implementation of the system of internal control The Board is responsible for investment strategy and within an established framework applicable related questions of SEE policy.
It has delegated the throughout the Group.
The system of internal control supervision of SEE related matters to the Audit and is reviewed at least annually.
The Board considers Risk Committee, and day-to-day responsibility resides that the necessary procedures have been with executive management.
As an investment trust, implemented to satisfy the requirements of the the Board considers that the Companys direct SEE Financial Services Authority with respect to the impact is low.
However, SEE risk is considered on a Turnbull guidance Internal Control: Guidance for case-by-case basis where management believes that Directors on the Combined Code issued in investments made internally, as opposed to those September 1999 and revised in 2005. made by external managers, would create a SEE risk As part of the review of the control environment, an exposure.
Potential SEE risk is also considered in the internal audit of selected area is undertaken.
This is selection of external investment managers.
performed on an annual basis and follows a rolling Financial Reporting and Control Procedures program targeting key areas.
The precise scope and There is a budgeting system with an annual budget depth of the remit will continue to be reviewed and, approved by the executive management.
Clear and direct reporting actual results are reviewed and reported against lines between the Compliance Officer who has the budget and reviewed regularly by the executive responsibility for this area and the Chairman of the management.
Audit and Risk Committee and Senior Independent Director have been established to maximise the The Group maintains guidelines in relation to the key independence of the Compliance Officer from controls exercised over its financial and operating executive management.
Duties are segregated to the extent commensurate with the size of the Groups The Compliance Officer also monitors the compliance organisation and business environment.
of external managers with the terms of their investment management agreements as well as reviewing their internal control procedures.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the key systems of internal control in operation during the financial period and up to the date of this report through the monitoring processes set out below.
During the course of its review of the system of internal controls, the Audit and Risk Committee has not identified or been appraised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 93 224233 RIT R&A pp88-pp94 31 05 2012 22:09 Page 94 Corporate Governance Report Additional Disclosures Statement on Going Concern The Directors have assessed the ability of the Company and the Group to continue as a going concern with reference to guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
The Company and the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4.
Further details of the financial position of the Company and the Group can be found in the Investment Directors Review and the Investment Portfolio on pages 5 to 12.
In addition, note 28 to the financial statements includes details of the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
As at the year-end the Group had cash at bank of 75.1 million, money market funds of 5.0 million and government bonds of 84.5 million.
In addition to these liquidity balances the Group held quoted equities of 1,223.6 million.
The Groups borrowings totalled 250.1 million under a facility that expires in December 2013.
The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable management arrangements in place to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
94 Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc
