GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 297 RBS GROUP 2012 Our governance structure Group Board and Board committee structure Group Board Group Group Group Group Audit Board Risk Performance and Executive Group Board Group Board Group Board Group Board Nominations Group Board Sustainability Group Board Committee Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Group Board is the main decision making forum at Group level, setting Group Performance and Remuneration Committee formerly Group the strategic direction of the Group and ensuring that the Group manages Remuneration Committee has oversight of the Groups policy on risk effectively.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for financial remuneration.
It also considers senior executive remuneration and makes and operational performance.
recommendations to the Board on remuneration of executive directors.
Group Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its Group Nominations Committee assists the Board in the selection and responsibilities for the disclosure of the financial affairs of the Group.
It reviews the structure, size and composition of reviews the accounting policies, financial reporting and regulatory the Board, and membership and chairmanship of Board committees.
compliance practices of the Group and the Groups system and standards of internal controls, and monitors the Groups processes for Group Sustainability Committee is responsible for overseeing and internal audit and external audit.
challenging how management is addressing sustainability and reputation issues relating to all stakeholder groups, except where such issues have Board Risk Committee provides oversight and advice to the Board on already been dealt with by other Board committees.
current and potential future risk exposures of the Group and risk strategy.
It reviews the Groups performance on risk appetite and oversees the Executive Committee is responsible for managing Group-wide issues and operation of the Group Policy Framework.
those operational issues that affect the broader Group.
It reviews strategic issues and initiatives, monitors financial performance and capital allocations and considers risk strategy, policy and risk management.
