GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 303 RBS GROUP 2012 Corporate governance The Role of the Board The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and is The Board is the main decision-making forum for the company.
It is satisfied that all directors allocate sufficient time to enable them to collectively responsible for the long-term success of the company and is discharge their responsibilities effectively.
accountable to shareholders for financial and operational performance.
Under the Companies Act 2006, directors have a duty to avoid conflicts of The Board has overall responsibility for: interest unless authorised.
The Board has, since this duty was introduced in 2008, operated procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers for x establishment of Group strategy and consideration of strategic authorising directors conflicts of interest as set out in the Articles of challenges: Association are being operated effectively.
The Board has therefore considered, and where appropriate authorised, any actual or potential x management of the business and affairs of the Group: conflicts of interest that directors may have.
The Board reviews its conflicts register annually.
x ensuring the Group manages risk effectively through the approval and monitoring of the Groups risk appetite: Election and re-election of directors In accordance with the provisions of the Code, all directors of the x considering stress scenarios and agreed mitigants and identifying company are required to stand for re-election annually by shareholders at longer term strategic threats to the Groups business operations: the companys Annual General Meeting.
Further information in relation to the companys Annual General Meeting can be found in the Chairmans x the allocation and raising of capital: and letter to shareholders that accompanies the notice of meeting.
x the preparation and approval of the Groups annual report and Board balance and independence accounts.
The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are distinct and separate, with a clear division of responsibilities.
The Chairman leads the The Boards terms of reference include key aspects of the companys Board and ensures the effective engagement and contribution of all affairs reserved for the Boards decision and are reviewed at least executive and non-executive directors.
The Group Chief Executive has annually.
The terms of reference are available on the Groups website responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in accordance with the www.
authority delegated by the Board.
There are a number of areas where the Board has delegated specific The non-executive directors combine broad business and commercial responsibility to management, including to the Group Chief Executive and experience with independent and objective judgement.
The nonthe Group Finance Director.
These include responsibility for the executive directors provide independent challenge to the executive operational management of the Groups businesses as well as reviewing directors and the leadership team.
The balance between non-executive high level strategic issues and considering risk appetite, risk policies and and executive directors enables the Board to provide clear and effective risk management strategies in advance of these being considered by the leadership across the Groups business activities.
Board and or its Committees.
Specific delegated authorities are also in place in relation to business commitments across the Group.
The Board considers that the Chairman was independent on appointment and that all non-executive directors are independent for the purposes of All directors participate in discussing strategy, performance and the the Code.
The standard terms and conditions of appointment of nonfinancial and risk management of the company.
Meetings of the Board executive directors are available on the Groups website www.
com are structured to allow sufficient time for consideration of all items and the and copies are available on request from RBS Secretariat.
Chairman encourages constructive challenge and debate.
Membership of the Board The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two executive directors and nine independent non-executive directors, one of whom is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board functions effectively and efficiently and is considered to be of an appropriate size.
The directors provide the Group with the knowledge, mix of skills and experience required.
The Board committees comprise directors with a variety of relevant skills and experience so that no undue reliance is placed on any individual.
The names and biographical details of the current members of the Board are shown on pages 298 to 301.
