GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 307 RBS GROUP 2012 Board and Committee membership Group Sustainability Committee At the request of the Board and taking into consideration feedback from During 2012, the Group Sustainability Committee focused on reviewing the Board committee evaluations and John McFarlanes departure, the the Groups overall sustainability strategy, values and policies and Group Nominations Committee reviewed the membership of the Board aligning the Groups approach to ethical, social and environmental committees.
The Group Nominations Committee agreed to strengthen the issues.
The role, responsibilities and membership of the Committee were Board Risk Committee with the appointment of Baroness Noakes, the reviewed at the end of 2012 as part of the Groups Purpose, Vision and Group Performance and Remuneration Committee with the appointment Values programme.
In 2013, the Committees scope will widen to of Art Ryan, and the Group Sustainability Committee with the include:- appointment of Alison Davis.
x sustainability and reputational issues related to customer and Boardroom diversity citizenship activities: The Board remains supportive of Lord Davies recommendations and currently meets the target of 25 per cent female board representation as x oversight of the delivery of the Purpose, Vision and Values cultural set out in Lord Davies report.
In accordance with the recommendations and behavioural change: and contained within Lord Davies report, the Board operates a boardroom diversity policy and a copy of the Boards diversity statement is available x oversight of the sustainability aspects of the people agenda.
com In addition, the Committee will be responsible for overseeing and The Group understands the importance of diversity and recognises the challenging how management is addressing sustainability and reputation importance of women having greater representation at key decision issues relating to all stakeholder groups, except where such issues have making points in organisations.
The search for Board candidates will already been dealt with by other Board committees.
continue to be conducted, and nominations appointments made, with due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
One of the challenges the Membership has been reviewed in line with the increased scope of the Group faces in the promotion of gender diversity is identifying suitably Committee and now consists of independent non-executive directors and qualified female Board candidates.
Where appropriate, the Group has is chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
All key business areas are engaged specialist search consultants to assist in the search for suitable represented at Committee meetings and the Group Chairman is also candidates.
However, all appointments to the Board are ultimately based invited to attend.
The frequency of meetings will also increase from on merit, measured against objective criteria, and the skills and quarterly to six times per annum, in addition to more regular stakeholder experience the individual can bring to the Board.
For more information on the Groups approach to sustainability see pages 33 to 35.
Further details of the Groups The balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity sustainability policies are available on the Groups website on the Board, and how the Board operates together as a unit is reviewed www.
com sustainability and in the Annual Sustainability Report.
annually as part of the Board evaluation.
Where appropriate, findings from the evaluation will be considered in the search, nomination and Relations with investors appointment process.
If appropriate, additional targets on diversity will be The Chairman is responsible for ensuring effective communication with developed in due course.
The company communicates with shareholders through the Annual Report and Accounts and by providing information in advance of Further details on the Groups approach to diversity can be found on the Annual General Meeting.
Individual shareholders can raise matters pages 346 and 347. relating to their shareholdings and the business of the Group at any time throughout the year by letter, telephone or email via the Groups website Succession planning www.
com ir The Group Nominations Committee considers succession planning on an ongoing basis and succession planning for the Board was considered at Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions at the Annual all Group Nominations Committee meetings during the year.
The Board General Meeting or can submit written questions in advance.
Directors considered talent and succession planning for the Group Chief Executive including the chairs of the Group Audit, Board Risk, Group Performance and members of the Executive Committee specifically at meetings in and Remuneration and Group Nominations Committees are available to June and October 2012, including a review of talent pools and answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Senior development opportunities for potential successors.
The Board continues Independent Director is also available.
to monitor succession planning taking into account business requirements and industry developments.
307 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 308 Corporate governance continued Communication with the company's largest institutional shareholders is x the Chair of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee undertaken as part of the Investor Relations programme: consults extensively with institutional shareholders in respect of the Groups remuneration policy.
x the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director meet regularly with UKFI, the organisation set up to manage the Throughout the year, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Governments investments in financial institutions, to discuss the Finance Director and Chair of the Group Performance and Remuneration strategy and financial performance of the Group.
The Group Chief Committee communicate shareholder feedback to the Board and the Executive and Group Finance Director also undertake an extensive directors receive independent analyst notes and reports reviewing share annual programme of meetings with the companys largest price movements and the Groups performance against the sector.
Detailed market and shareholder feedback is also provided to the Board after major public announcements such as results announcements.
The x the Chairman independently meets with the Groups largest arrangements used to ensure that directors develop an understanding of institutional shareholders annually to hear their feedback on the views of major shareholders and other stakeholders are considered management, strategy, business performance and corporate as part of the annual Board evaluation.
Additionally, the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and chairs of the Board committees met with the The Groups Investor Relations programme also includes governance representatives of a number of institutional communications aimed specifically at its fixed income debt investors.
The Group Finance Director and or Group Treasurer give regular presentations to fixed income investors to discuss strategy and financial x the Senior Independent Director is available if any shareholder has performance.
Further information is available on the Groups website concerns that they feel are not being addressed through the normal www.
