GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 316 Report of the Board Risk Committee Letter from Philip Scott, Chairman of the Board Risk Committee Dear Shareholder, I report to you following another challenging twelve months for the Board Enhancements to risk reporting have continued in the period to ensure Risk Committee.
The already demanding schedule of the Committee was that reports are insightful and relevant, and provide more metric based intensified in the period by a number of significant issues, most notably information.
Data quality is, of course, critical to the accuracy of reporting the IT incident that occurred in June 2012.
The Board Risk Committee and the Committee has received in depth updates on the progress of has undertaken, on behalf of the Board, to review the cause, data quality programmes and reporting initiatives ongoing throughout the consequence and subsequent management of the IT incident which had organisation, most notably the Finance and Risk Transformation such unacceptable consequences for many of our customers.
priority, the Committee has overseen remediation and has sought to ensure appropriate redress for customers.
It will continue carefully to However, inevitably risk management tools and measures can only take oversee management of residual technology risks and will ensure the organisation so far.
The future success of RBS depends upon the communication with our regulators and stakeholders on conclusion of the correct culture and approach that places the customer at the forefront of internal and external investigations of the incident, as appropriate.
The Board Risk Committee is fully supportive of the measures being developed to engender the correct behaviours at all While 2012 has presented significant challenges, there has also been a levels within the RBS Group.
The Committee has worked closely with the great deal of progress on the development and implementation of risk Group Performance and Remuneration Committee over the past 12 and control throughout the organisation.
The Board Risk Committee has months to consider issues relating to individual accountability and been pleased to exercise an oversight role in the development and responsibility for legacy and new issues.
Where appropriate, enhancement of the risk management framework and associated tools recommendations have been made to the Group Performance and that support the Groups aim of being a safer and more sustainable bank.
Remuneration Committee in relation to risk performance and reward.
The Committee has provided input into the Groups risk strategy and Culture, including the role of financial incentives and reward, will continue objectives during 2012 and has overseen the refinement and further to be a priority of the Committee during 2013. embedding of the Groups framework into the business divisions.
This has enabled the Committee to gain an improved understanding of the The members of the Committee have dedicated significant additional time major risks which the Group faces, including market risk, conduct risk, to the consideration of risk issues during 2012 and I would like to thank country risk, credit risk including single name concentrations and sector them for their dedication and commitment.
The business of the risk regulatory risk and operational risk and to ensure robust plans are in Committee is set to be no less demanding in 2013.
The creation of the place to manage excess exposures.
The Groups stress testing Prudential Regulatory Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority as capabilities have been developed and are now being used within part of the UKs twin peaks regulatory framework will be a major influence business as usual as an effective strategic planning and capital and the Group will have to adapt to the new regulatory approach and management tool.
work closely with regulators to implement changes to standards and reporting where required.
The Board Risk Committee has supported the articulation of a conduct risk appetite statement which is being embedded strategically within the More detailed information on the business of the Committee during 2012 Groups Policy Framework.
Conduct Risk standards are being is set out in the Board Risk Committee Report that follows.
communicated to staff using the four pillars of conduct risk, employee conduct, market conduct, corporate conduct and conduct towards customers.
The Committee will monitor implementation of these enhanced standards during 2013.
Philip Scott Chairman of the Board Risk Committee 27 February 2013 316 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 317 RBS GROUP 2012 Report of the Board Risk Committee Role of the Board Risk Committee Meetings and visits The Board Risk Committee is responsible for providing oversight and The Board Risk Committee held seven scheduled meetings and three advice to the Board in relation to current and potential future risk additional ad hoc meetings in 2012.
Meetings are held alongside Group exposures of the Group and future risk strategy, including determination Audit Committee meetings to ensure that the work of the two Committees of risk appetite and tolerance.
The Committee reviews the performance of is coordinated and consistent.
Board Risk Committee meetings are the Group relative to risk appetite and provides oversight of the attended by relevant executive directors, risk management, finance and effectiveness of key Group policies.
The Board Risk Committee has internal audit executives.
External advice may be sought by the Board responsibility for promoting a risk awareness culture within the Group.
Risk Committee where considered appropriate.
During 2012, the members of Board Risk Committee, in conjunction with the members of Authority is delegated to the Board Risk Committee by the Board and the the Group Audit Committee, took part in an annual programme of visits to Committee will report and make recommendations to the Board as the Groups business divisions and control functions.
The terms of reference of the Board Risk Committee are included two in depth sessions with the Risk Management function to available on the Groups website www.
com and these are considered consider key risk areas and the risk strategy and operating model.
Full annually by the Board Risk Committee and approved by the Board.
details about the programme of visits is set out in the Report of the Group Audit Committee on page 311.
Risk strategy and policy Risk profile Membership To consider the Group's risk To review the performance of The Board Risk Committee comprises at least three independent nonprofile relative to current and the Group relative to risk executive directors.
The Chairman and members of the Committee, future Group strategy and appetite and to review reports together with their attendance at meetings, are shown below.
Group risk appetite and identify relating to any significant issues any risk trends, concentrations that require, or are subject to, Attended scheduled or exposures and any remedial action or Philip Scott chairman 7 7 requirement for policy change.
recommendation arising in the Sandy Crombie 7 7 period under review.
Tony Di Iorio 1 6 7 Joe MacHale 5 7 Risk Management operating model Brendan Nelson 7 7 Baroness Noakes 2 5 5 To review the Terms of Reference for RBS Risk 1 Missed one meeting owing to travel disruption as a consequence of Hurricane Sandy.
2 Joined the Committee on 1 March 2012: attended all previous meetings as an attendee.
Management: and To approve the RBS Risk Philip Scott, Tony Di Iorio, Brendan Nelson and Baroness Noakes are Board Risk Management annual operational also members of the Group Audit Committee.
Sandy Crombie is also a Committee plan with reference to the member of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee.
This appropriateness of the scope common membership ensures effective governance across all finance, and timing of proposed risk and remuneration issues, and that agendas are aligned and overlap coverage in relation to risk.
Risk appetite, framework Remuneration and limits To consider the Groups risk To provide advice to the Group appetite framework and risk Performance and Remuneration tolerance for current and future Committee to enable it to strategy: consider adjustments to bonus To review the financial, credit, pools to reflect risk country, conduct, concentration, management: regulatory, operational and To review year end risk market risk appetite and related performance of Executive and authorities, limits and mandates: Management Committee and members and the risk weighting To ensure rigorous stress and of objectives: and scenario testing of the Groups To review clawback business.
317 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 318 Report of the Board Risk Committee continued A report on the activity of the Board Risk Committee in fulfilling its Risk profile responsibilities was provided to the Board following each Committee Reporting meeting.
The key considerations of the Committee during 2012 are The Committee received a detailed report on key risks and metrics at explained more fully below.
each meeting and the Chief Risk Officer provided an oral update on the key risks to the organisation.
This enabled the Committee to identify the Risk strategy and policy key risk areas where additional focus was required.
Focus sessions were The RBS Group has a clear risk strategy supported by well defined provided by the Heads of Risk disciplines at Board Risk Committee strategic risk objectives.
The members of the Board Risk Committee meetings on a rotational basis, to offer the Committee additional insights.
provide input to the overarching strategy for the Group on an ongoing basis.
In the first half of 2012, the Committee reviewed and provided During the period, risk reporting was enhanced and the Committee direction to the Groups Resolution submission to the FSA pursuant to its oversaw the development of a report on the key headline and emerging Recovery and Resolution Programme.
In conjunction with the Board, the risks.
Likewise, at the request of the Committee, metric based risk Committee considered the potential implications for the Group of the reporting in dashboard format was developed and will be extended to proposals contained in the UKs White Paper on Banking Reform and its cover each of the key risk disciplines during 2013. interaction with potential future regulation in Europe and the US.
It will continue to monitor developments throughout 2013.
The Committee reported to the Board following each meeting on its consideration of the risk profile of the Group and made recommendations During 2012, the Board Risk Committee reviewed the implementation of as appropriate.
the Group Policy Framework across the organisation and reviewed the output of assurance testing to assess how those standards were Regulatory Reviews and Investigations operating in practice.
Governance arrangements were also reviewed Regulatory risk featured highly on the agenda of the Board Risk during the year.
In particular, the Committee considered regional Committee and during 2012 the Committee assumed responsibility for governance arrangements in operation across the Group: local guidance: considering certain key areas of risk in a deeper level of granularity.
Most regulatory expectations: and considered the adequacy of the current significantly, as highlighted above, the Committee played a central role in Group structure against that backdrop.
In conjunction with the Group the oversight and remediation of the Groups IT incident.
In order to Audit Committee, the members reviewed how the three lines of defence ensure appropriate outcomes for customers, members reviewed the model was being implemented across the Group and the Committee remediation plans in detail to ensure that they were fair and robust.
On reinforced with management the importance of ensuring the model behalf of the Board, the Committee oversaw the independent internal operated effectively in practice.
The Committee will continue to review investigation of the incident.
Interaction with regulators in relation to their governance arrangements and compliance with the Group Policy investigation of the incident continues and the Committee has committed Framework during 2013. to ensuring that the investigation is brought to a close, accountability is fully considered and learnings are addressed across the organisation.
The Committee regards conduct risk and the delivery of appropriate outcomes to customers to be fundamental to the future success of the A number of other internal and regulatory investigations arose or RBS Group.
As referenced above, in 2012 the Board Risk Committee continued throughout 2012.
During the period, the Committee received oversaw the development of the Group conduct risk appetite statement reports on the investigation of the alleged mis-selling of interest rate and framework which is now in the process of being fully implemented hedging products to small and medium sized enterprises: it reviewed across all lines of defence in the organisation.
Focus of the Committee ongoing programmes of work, remediation and investigation relating to has now turned to consideration of what measures, standards, training unauthorised trading events and Anti-Money Laundering: it received and objectives are required to instil and evidence the correct behaviours reports on required enhancements to the mortgage sales process: and it in practice.
continued to play an important governance role in the oversight and remediation of known regulatory issues in the RBS Americas region.
The Committee also considered conduct risk in the context of product Where appropriate, the Committee oversaw liaison with regulators: made design and regulatory investigations, as referenced below.
recommendations regarding required remediation, training and process controls and enhancements: and made recommendations to the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee in relation to accountability.
Progress to address identified weaknesses will be closely monitored throughout 2013.
In recognition of the conduct issues under investigation, the Committee reviewed the product approval process.
Complex products were reviewed from the perspective of the customer.
The Committee intends to look at sales processes and the approvals required for process design in 2013.
Operational risks inherent in the Groups processes were also considered and the Committee has specifically considered IT continuity, security and data control.
318 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 319 RBS GROUP 2012 Capital and Liquidity Risk management operating model The Committee reviewed the capital and liquidity position of the Group The Committee reviewed planned improvements to the risk management regularly in light of external conditions.
The difficulties being experienced operating model and noted the proposed enhancements and the in Europe and the US necessitated a continued focus on market and additional assurance that the revised model seeks to introduce.
Members sovereign risk over the course of 2012 and a number of additional reports of the Committee reviewed the calibre of senior risk personnel and in this regard were considered over the course of the year.
Adequacy of resource was Committee made recommendations to the Board in relation to the considered in the context of the scope and nature of work undertaken by Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment, the Individual Capital the Risk Management function.
Adequacy Assessment and the Contingency Funding Plan, required by the FSA.
The risk governance model continues to evolve and the Board Risk Committee has and will continue to monitor developments as appropriate.
The Committee considered pension risk in the context of managing liability and investment strategy.
It will continue to monitor these risks in Risk architecture 2013.
The Committee reviewed the standards of data quality across the Group and the programmes in place to improve data quality.
It monitored the Risk appetite, framework and limits progress of the Finance and Risk Transformation Programme, designed The risk appetite framework for the Group was approved in 2011.
During to develop a golden source of data for use in reporting across the Group.
2012, focus was placed on ensuring that the framework was rolled out Improvements to data quality, management information and reporting and embedded across the business divisions and legal entities within the have been identified as key areas of focus for the Committee in 2013.
The Committee has committed to review the risk appetite framework on an annual basis to ensure it remains fit for purpose and will Remuneration review capital adequacy risk, earnings volatility, and liquidity risk appetite The Committee recognises that embedding the correct conduct and targets in early 2013. culture in the organisation requires an emphasis on performance management and conduct and standards.
The Board Risk Committee Significant improvements were made to the Groups integrated stress continued to strengthen its coordination with the Group Performance and testing capabilities over the course of 2012 and the Committee reviewed Remuneration Committee during the period, with the aim of ensuring that the output of stress tests and considered how these informed risk risk was adequately reflected in objectives and compensation appetite and key strategic decisions.
Reports on reverse stress testing, arrangements and decisions.
The members of the Committee met including key sensitivities and vulnerabilities were reviewed.
The regularly during 2012, including on an ad hoc basis, to consider specific Committee monitored progress in the development of an economic regulatory and operational issues and to consider accountability and the capital model and will review how these measures and tools work potential impact upon remuneration.
together in an integrated manner.
Performance evaluation An external review of the effectiveness of the Board and senior The Committee received reports on the new Country Risk Appetite committees, including the Board Risk Committee, during 2012 was Framework that was developed in 2012.
The members reviewed the conducted.
The Committee has considered and discussed the report on approach to assessment of the potential for losses due to country risk the outcomes of the evaluation and is satisfied with the way in which the shocks and how the framework informed the setting of country risk limits evaluation has been conducted, the conclusions and the within the Groups Risk Appetite Framework.
Overall, the review concluded that the Board Risk Committee continued to operate effectively.
The outcomes of the As more fully set out in the Group Audit Committee report on page 313, a evaluation have been reported to the Board, and during 2013, the framework of Divisional Risk and Audit Committees is responsible for Committee will place focus on driving further improvements to risk reviewing the business of each division and reporting to the Group Audit reporting and prioritisation of Committee time.
Committee and Board Risk Committee.
During 2012, the risk agenda of these committees continued to evolve alongside the Board Risk Committee agenda.
The Material Integrated Risk Assessment process that was introduced in 2011 continued to be refined in 2012 and the Committee received reports on progress.
Philip Scott Chairman of the Board Risk Committee 27 February 2013 319
