GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 309 RBS GROUP 2012 Report of the Group Audit Committee Letter from Brendan Nelson, Chairman of the Group Audit Committee Dear Shareholder, External market conditions have continued to be difficult and managing x the recoverability of the Groups deferred tax assets: the intensity of the regulatory agenda while remediating existing and certain new issues has inevitably determined the focus of the Group Audit x the methodology and assumptions underlying the Groups provisions Committee during 2012.
However, I am pleased to report that against this for payment protection insurance and interest rate hedging products challenging backdrop, the Committee continued to meet its key objectives redress: in the period in accordance with its terms of reference.
x the Groups provisions for outstanding litigation and regulatory The Group Audit Committee exercised oversight of the Groups financial investigations: and reporting and policy.
It monitored the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and reviewed significant financial and accounting x the impact of the announcement that Santander would not complete judgements.
The Committee sought to understand and to challenge its planned purchase of certain UK branch-based businesses.
managements accounting judgements and satisfied itself that disclosures in the financial statements about these judgements and estimates were The Group Audit Committee continued to encourage enhancements to transparent and appropriate.
The Group Audit Committee also met the the disclosures in the Groups external financial reports.
Revised versions External Auditors in private in advance of key meetings in order to obtain of the UK Corporate Governance Code and related Guidance for Audit an independent view on the key disclosure issues and risks in relation to Committees were issued by the Financial Reporting Council in the financial statements.
The Committee considered the new requirements and has endeavoured to comply early, where appropriate to do so.
The In particular, the Committee has considered: Committee also considered the recommendations of the Enhanced Disclosure Task Force of the Financial Stability Board and the Groups x the directors going concern disclosure including the Groups capital, plans to meet the recommendations.
I am pleased to report that several liquidity and funding position: of the Groups disclosures were highlighted within the report as examples of best practice.
x the adequacy of the Groups loan impairment provisions, focusing particularly on the Ulster Bank loan portfolio and commercial real A key responsibility of the Committee is to monitor and review the scope, estate exposures: nature and effectiveness of Internal Audit.
As in previous years, I met regularly with the Head of Group Internal Audit.
The Committee also held x the impact of the Groups forbearance policies on provisioning: two in depth sessions with Group Internal Audit.
These additional meetings enabled the members of the Committee to be briefed on Group x the Groups valuation methodologies and assumptions for financial Internal Audits strategy under the leadership of Nicholas Crapp, who instruments measured at fair value: joined the Group at the start of the year, and to meet the senior management team.
The Committee ensured that the Head of Group x the adequacy of the Groups general insurance reserves: Internal Audit has appropriate independence and authority: that the scope of Internal Audit is unrestricted: that planning is appropriately risk based: x valuation of the Groups defined benefits pension schemes: and that the function has the requisite budget and resource strategy.
The Head of Group Internal Audit has a direct reporting line to me and I will x carrying value of the Groups goodwill and other intangible assets: continue to work closely with him as we seek to strengthen further the function during 2013.
309 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 310 Report of the Group Audit Committee continued The Committee also monitored and reviewed aspects of the Groups to influence the setting of interest rates.
The Committee met regularly to external audit in the period.
It reviewed the scope and planning of the receive updates on the investigations, including on an ad hoc basis.
It external audit and considered reports and recommendations from the worked closely with the Group Performance and Remuneration External Auditors.
It monitored the External Auditors independence and Committee to make decisions and recommendations in relation to objectivity and ensured effective controls were in place to oversee individual accountability.
engagements for the External Auditors to provide non-audit services.
The Committee undertook an assessment of the External Auditors The implications for the Groups culture and control environment were performance and recommended to the Board that re-appointment of the considered in light of this and other ongoing investigations.
The External Auditors be submitted to shareholders for approval at the Annual Committee in particular, reviewed proposed enhancements to the culture General Meeting in 2013. and control framework in the Markets and International Banking divisions.
It has monitored the implementation of remedial action in the Markets During 2012, I met with the FSA and with the External Auditors on a business and has overseen liaison with the Groups regulators.
trilateral basis as envisaged by the FSA Code of Practice.
The purpose of Independent assurance has been obtained regarding the this meeting was to discuss, in the framework of an open and cooperative comprehensiveness and timeliness of plans.
The Committee is confident relationship between the supervisor and the External Auditors, issues that the change programme will result in genuine behavioural change considered to be of interest to the parties in meeting their respective across the business as well as robust and sustainable control responsibilities.
This meeting formed part of the Committees oversight of remediation.
It will closely monitor implementation of these plans in 2013. the Groups relationship with its regulators.
Inevitably, the challenges that have arisen during the year have meant The Committee reviewed the Groups systems of internal controls and the that members have had to dedicate some considerable time to the work procedures for monitoring their effectiveness.
The Committee placed of the Committee.
I would like to extend my thanks to my fellow particular focus in 2012 on ensuring that the Group had articulated an Committee members for their continued dedication and support appropriate three lines of defence model that clearly stated individuals throughout 2012. responsibility and accountability for risk and control at all levels.
This model is expected to be fully embedded in 2013 and the Group Audit Committee will closely monitor delivery within the divisions and functions.
Litigation and regulatory investigations featured heavily on the agenda of both the Group Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee in the period, highlighting some deficiencies in the control environment.
During 2012 the Board asked the Group Audit Committee to monitor progress of Brendan Nelson the internal and various ongoing regulatory investigations and claims Chairman of the Group Audit Committee based on allegations that the Group had made inappropriate submissions 27 February 2013 310 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 311 RBS GROUP 2012 Report of the Group Audit Committee Performance evaluation Meetings and visits An external review evaluating the effectiveness of the Group Audit A total of seven scheduled meetings of the Group Audit Committee were Committee takes place every three to five years with internal reviews by held in 2012, including meetings held immediately before consideration of the Board in the intervening years.
An external review of the Board and the annual and interim financial statements and the quarterly interim its senior committees took place during 2012.
Overall, the review management statements by the Board.
The Group Audit Committee also concluded that the Group Audit Committee continued to operate held five ad hoc meetings.
Group Audit Committee meetings are attended effectively.
by relevant executive directors, the Internal and External Auditors and Finance and Risk Management executives.
Other executives, subject The role and responsibilities of the Group Audit Committee matter experts and external advisers are also invited to attend the Group The Group Audit Committees primary responsibilities are shown below Audit Committee, as required, to present and advise on reports and are set out in its terms of reference which are reviewed annually by commissioned by the Committee.
At least twice a year the Group Audit the Group Audit Committee and approved by the Board.
These are Committee meets privately with the External Auditors.
The Committee available on the Groups website www.
com also meets privately with the Group Internal Audit management.
Financial reporting and policy Systems of internal control Financial reporting and policy Systems of internal control The annual programme of joint visits by the Group Audit and Board Risk Monitor the integrity of the Review the arrangements of Committees to the Group's business divisions and control functions Monitor the integrity of the Review the arrangements of thefinancial statements of the the Groups systems of internal continued in 2012.
The object of the programme is for members of the financial sta Group, and any formal tements of the Group controls in relation to financia s systems of internal l Committee to gain a deeper understanding of the Group: invitations to announcements relating to the management, compliance with Group, and any formal controls in relation to financial attend are extended to all non-executive directors.
During 2012, the Groups actual and forecast laws and regulations, announcements relating to the management, compliance with Group Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee undertook a total financial performance: and safeguarding of assets, and Groups actual and forecast laws and regulations, of six visits - to Risk Management 2, Internal Audit 2, Group Finance Review significant financial and the procedures for monitoring financial performance: and safeguarding of assets, and the and Business Services to review the Group Change portfolio.
the effectiveness of such Review significant financial and procedures for monitoring thecontrols.
Membership of the Group Audit Committee The Group Audit Committee is made up of at least three independent Process for Internal Audit non-executive directors.
The Chairman and members of the Committee, Process for Internal Audit Monitor and review the scope, together with their attendance at meetings, are shown below.
nature of the work and Monitor and review the scope, Group effectiveness of Internal Audit: Attended nature of the work and and scheduled Audit effectiveness of Internal Audit: Receive and review its reports, Brendan Nelson chairman 7 7 and Committee findings and recommendations Tony Di Iorio 7 7 Group Audit R covering the m eceive and review its repor anagement ots f, Baroness Noakes 7 7 Committee key operating risks, the findings and recommendations Philip Scott 7 7 adequacy of any necessary covering the management of follow up action and any key operating risks, the All members of the Group Audit Committee are also members of the relevant investigation work.
adequacy of any necessary Board Risk Committee facilitating effective governance of finance and follow up action and any Oversight of the Groups risk issues.
The Group Audit and Board Risk Committees also have Process for External Audit relevant investigation work.
relationship with its regulators strong links with the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee Monitor the relationship with Monitor and review reports ensuring that levels of compensation reflect relevant finance and risk the Financial Services prepared by the External Oversight of the Groups considerations.
Process for External Audit relationship with its regulator Authority and other relevant s Auditors, including their annual regulatory bodies, including management letter: Monitor the relationship with theMonitor and review reports The members of the Group Audit Committee are selected with a view to review of the scope and results Approve the terms of Financial Services Authority and prepared by the External the expertise and experience of the Group Audit Committee as a whole.
of work conducted by the engagement of the External other relevant regulatory bodies, Skilled Persons approved by A Auditors: uditors, including their annual The Board is satisfied that all Group Audit Committee members have inc the Finan luding re cial S view of ervices the scope Resolve any disagreements management letter: recent and relevant financial experience, and that each member of the Authority.
between management and the and results of work conducted Approve the terms of Group Audit Committee is an Audit Committee Financial Expert' and is External Auditors regarding by the Skilled Persons approved engagement of the External independent, each as defined in the SEC rules under the US Securities financial reporting: and by the Financial Services Auditors: Exchange Act of 1934 Exchange Act and related guidance.
Full Asses the performance of the Authority.
Resolve any disagreements biographical details of the Committee members are set out on pages 298 External Auditors annually.
between management and the to 301.
External Auditors regarding financial reporting: and Assess the performance of the External Auditors annually.
311 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 312 Report of the Group Audit Committee continued A report on the activity of the Group Audit Committee in fulfilling its x adequacy of the Groups provision held for the mis-selling of responsibilities was provided to the Board following each Committee payment protection insurance and interest rate hedging products.
The key considerations of the Committee during 2012 are The Group has established a provision which represents the explained more fully below.
Groups best estimate of the redress that will be payable by the Group.
The Committee challenged managements judgements and Financial reporting and policy is satisfied that the level of provision is appropriate: The Group Audit Committee focused on a number of salient judgments and reporting issues in the preparation of the 2012 accounts, and x the Groups provisions made for outstanding litigation and regulatory considered: investigations and the extent to which reliable estimates could be made for the purposes of the accounts: x the directors going concern conclusion, including the Groups capital, liquidity and funding position.
Further information is set out x the Groups provision for redress and other costs following the on page 347: Groups IT incident in June 2012: x the adequacy of loan impairment provisions in Ulster Bank.
The Irish x the impact of the announcement that Santander would not complete economy showed some signs of stabilisation but there remained its planned purchase of certain UK branch-based businesses.
The Committee considered the level of Committee considered whether the assets and liabilities should provision for loan impairment in light of these uncertainties.
It continue to be held for sale at 31 December 2012 and concluded monitored external conditions closely and compared loss experience that they should no longer be held for sale and that they should be with forecasts.
Loan impairments in the Corporate and Non-core reclassified to the relevant balance sheet captions in the divisions were also carefully reviewed.
During 2012, the Committee consolidated balance sheet: and also revisited the application of IAS 39 to loan impairment rules and concluded that the Group applies them on a neutral and consistent x the quality and transparency of disclosures bearing in mind basis: regulatory developments and expectations.
The Committee received a report on the recommendations of the Financial Stability Boards x the Groups forbearance policies.
The Committee considered the Enhanced Disclosure Task Force and the Groups plans to meet the impact of forbearance on provision levels and monitored emerging recommendations.
trends and reporting capabilities across the Groups various portfolios: Systems of internal control Implementation of a clear and effective three lines of defence model was x the approach to valuation of the Groups financial instruments a priority in 2012.
The Committee received regular reports on the measured at fair value, including its credit market exposures and approach to its implementation across the Group.
Focus is now on liabilities carried at fair value: ensuring the model is fully operational and the Committee will exercise close oversight of progress during 2013. x the adequacy of reserves held to meet the claims in the Groups general insurance business.
The Committee considered Regulatory investigations highlighted deficiencies in the control managements assessment of the full cost of settling outstanding environment in certain parts of the Group, most notably within the general insurance claims including claims estimated to have been Markets and International Banking divisions.
Cultural weaknesses were incurred but not yet reported and for claims handling expenses.
On behalf of the Board, the Group Audit Committee comfortable that the level of provision is appropriate based on undertook a detailed review of the divisional remediation plans and claims experience and on statistical models: sought independent external assurance regarding comprehensiveness and timeliness of those plans.
The Committee will closely oversee x valuation of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme.
The remediation throughout 2013, receiving quarterly reports.
Committee considered the assumptions that had been set in valuing the fund and the sensitivities on those assumptions: During the period, the Group Audit Committee reviewed progress against plan for a number of strategic initiatives such as the Finance and Risk x carrying value of the Groups goodwill and other intangible assets: Transformation Programme.
It also tracked progress in relation to mandatory and remedial projects including the Groups Anti-Money x the background to and the judgements that had been made by Laundering Programme and the progress of the Groups US regulatory management in assessing the recoverability of the Groups deferred initiatives.
tax assets: The Committee received reports on the operation of the Group Policy Framework.
At its request, a policy standard was developed on the management of model risk across the organisation.
This standard sets minimum requirements for ownership, design and use of models in the Group.
The Committee will review operation of this and other policy standards, and the outputs of assurance activity in early 2013.
312 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 313 RBS GROUP 2012 The Committee also reviewed the effectiveness of the Group New investigations.
Over the course of the year the chairmen of the Groups Product Approval Process and received quarterly reports from the Credit senior Board committees met with the FSA on an individual basis and Quality Assurance function.
It considered the Groups compliance with also participated in certain Regulatory College meetings with the Groups the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and was regularly primary regulators.
The FSA attended a Group Audit Committee meeting advised of whistle blowing disclosures which took place in the Group: in October 2012 as an observer.
complaints raised with members of the Groups executive team: and significant and sensitive internal investigations.
During 2012, the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee also met with the FSA and with the External Auditors on a trilateral basis.
Divisional Risk and Audit Committees have responsibility for individual divisions and report to the Group Audit Committee and Board Risk The Committee closely monitored the Groups relationship with its Committee.
Given the size and complexity of the Group, these international regulators and significant time continued to be dedicated in committees are essential components of the governance framework that particular to understanding the regulatory requirements in the US and the supports the effective operation of the Group Audit Committee and Board implications on the Groups US operations and structure.
The Committee agreed improvements to the divisional risk reporting framework and these changes will be implemented during Processes for external audit 2013.
Quarterly reports were received by the Group Audit Committee and During 2012, the External Auditors provided the Group Audit Committee Board Risk Committee from each Divisional Risk and Audit Committee.
with reports summarising their main observations and conclusions arising from their year end audit, half year review and work in connection with Internal audit the first and third quarters and their recommendations for enhancements The Group Audit Committee oversaw the work of Group Internal Audit to the Groups reporting and controls.
The External Auditors also throughout 2012, and received regular reports from the Head of Group presented for approval to the Committee their audit plan and audit fee Internal Audit.
These included bi-annual opinion reports which rated both proposal and engagement letter, as well as confirmation of their the quality of the control environment of all the Groups divisions and of independence and a comprehensive report of all non-audit fees.
The reports from Group Internal Audit enabled the Committee to monitor internal control within the Group by The Group Audit Committee undertakes an annual evaluation to assess reporting on areas where improvements to the control environment were the independence and objectivity of the External Auditors and the needed.
effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
The annual evaluation is In response to Group Internal Audit findings during 2012, the Committee carried out in two stages.
An initial review was carried out in early 2013. requested presentations from the International Banking business on In assessing the effectiveness of the Groups External Auditors, the improvements to its control environment.
More generally, Group Internal Group Audit Committee had regard to: Audit raised observations regarding the Groups management of the conduct risk agenda.
Following discussion at the Group Executive x the experience and expertise of the senior members of the Committee, Stephen Hester presented management's action plan engagement team: responding to these findings to the Committee.
x the proposed scope of the audit work: The Group Audit Committee considered Group Internal Audits annual plan and the adequacy of its resources and budget.
Nicholas Crapp x the quality of dialogue between the External Auditors, the joined the function at the beginning of 2012 and the Committee reviewed Committee and senior management: the strategy for Group Internal Audit under his leadership.
x the clarity and quality and robustness of written reports presented to In line with best practice, an external review of the effectiveness of Group the Committee setting out the External Auditors findings: Internal Audit takes place every three to five years, with internal reviews continuing in intervening years.
In January 2013, the Group Audit x the quality of observations provided to the company by the External Committee undertook an internal evaluation of Group Internal Audit.
It Auditors on the Groups systems of internal control: and concluded that Group Internal Audit had operated effectively throughout 2012.
Minor observations and recommendations will be implemented.
x the views of management on the performance of the External Auditors.
Oversight of the Groups relationship with its regulators The Group Audit Committee has a responsibility to monitor the Groups The second phase of the review will be conducted following completion of relationship with the Financial Services Authority FSA and other all year end processes and will involve targeted interviews with regulatory bodies.
During 2012, it received regular reports on the Groups individuals based on outputs from the initial phase and level of interaction relationship with all its regulators and highlighting significant with the External Auditors.
It received reports on regulatory actions and 313 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 314 Report of the Group Audit Committee continued In addition to the annual evaluation performed by the Group Audit x appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or , the External Auditors will also conduct their own annual kind reports: review of audit quality.
Twelve service criteria for the audit have been defined by the External Auditors to measure their performance against x actuarial services: the quality commitments set out in their annual audit plan, under the headings of quality of audit, approach and conduct, independence and x internal audit outsourcing services: objectivity, quality of the team and value added.
x management functions or human resources: The Group Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal x broker or dealer, investment adviser, or investment banking services: of the External Auditors.
In order to make a recommendation to the Board, the Group Audit Committee considers and discusses the x legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit: or performance of the External Auditors, taking account of the outcomes of the annual evaluation carried out.
The Board submits the Group Audit x other services determined to be impermissible by the US Public Committee's recommendations to shareholders for their approval at the Company Accounting Oversight Board.
The Board has endorsed the Group Audit Committee's recommendation that shareholders be requested to approve The Group Audit Committee reviews the policy annually and the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as External Auditors at the Annual prospectively approves the provision of audit services and certain nonGeneral Meeting in 2013.
The Group Audit Committee also fixes the audit services by the External Auditors.
Annual audit services include all remuneration of the External Auditors as authorised by shareholders at services detailed in the annual engagement letter including the annual the Annual General Meeting.
audit and interim reviews including US reporting requirements and periodic profit verifications.
Deloitte LLP has been the companys auditors since March 2000.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the company's choice of External Annual audit services also include statutory or non-statutory audits Auditors.
A revised version of the UK Corporate Governance Code was required by any Group companies that are not incorporated in the UK.
issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 which Terms of engagement for these audits are agreed separately with provides that companies should put the external audit contract out to management, and are consistent with those set out in the audit tender at least every ten years.
The Group Audit Committee has engagement letter insofar as local regulations permit.
During 2012, considered the requirements and will consider each year whether there prospectively approved non-audit services included the following classes are any circumstances or events such that the contract for the audit of the of service: Group should be put out to tender.
Furthermore, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the audit contract will be put out to tender every x capital raising, including consents, comfort letters and relevant ten years as will any new appointment following the resignation of the reviews of registration statements: incumbent auditors.
x provision of accounting opinions relating to the financial statements Audit and non-audit services of the Group and its subsidiaries: The Group Audit Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of the External Auditors to supply audit and non-audit services, which takes x provision of reports that, according to law or regulation, must be into account relevant legislation regarding the provision of such services rendered by the External Auditors: by an external audit firm.
x permissible services relating to companies that will remain outside In particular, the Group does not engage the External Auditors to provide the Group: any of the following non-audit services: x reports providing assurance to third parties over certain of the x bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records or Group's internal controls prepared under Standards for Attestation financial statements: Engagements SSAE No.
16 or similar auditing standards in other jurisdictions: and x financial information systems design and implementation: x reports and letters providing assurance to the Group in relation to a third party company where the Group is acting as equity debt underwriter in a transaction, in the ordinary course of business.
314 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 315 RBS GROUP 2012 For all other permitted non-audit services, Group Audit Committee approval must be sought, on a case by case basis, in advance.
The Group Audit Committee reviews and monitors the independence and objectivity of the External Auditors when it approves non-audit work, taking into consideration relevant legislation, ethical guidance and the level of non-audit services relative to audit services.
The approval process is rigorously applied to prevent the External Auditors from functioning as management, auditing their own work, or serving in an advocacy role.
A competitive tender process is required for all proposed non-audit services engagements where the fees are expected to exceed 100,000.
Engagements below 100,000 may be approved by the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee: as an additional governance control all engagements have to be approved by the Group Chief Accountant and Group Procurement.
Where the engagement is tax related, approval must also be obtained from the Head of Group Taxation.
Ad hoc approvals of non-audit services are ratified by the Group Audit Committee each quarter.
During 2012, the External Auditors were approved to undertake certain significant engagements which are categorised and explained more fully below: Summary of category of engagement Reason for selection of External Auditors Assurance testing and agreed upon The External Auditors knowledge of the Group and extensive experience in such work ensured time procedures to regulators and cost savings were achieved in both instances.
three engagements Business product development and launch The External Auditors were selected following a competitive tender.
They were appointed based on one engagement their firm-wide capability, the quality and relevant expertise of the team, and the competitive fee levels.
Provision of advice to management and The External Auditors were considered to be the most suitable firm to undertake this work given their independent assurance and assessment extensive knowledge of the Groups systems, end-to-end process and financial reporting framework.
one engagement The considerable time pressures associated with this project meant that by appointing the External Auditors a number of efficiency savings were ensured.
In addition, the External Auditors are engaged from time to time by the Group to perform restructuring services.
The Group is not liable for these fees, and often has a limited role in the selection process.
As an additional governance control, these engagements are subject to the ad hoc approval process.
Information on fees paid in respect of audit and non-audit services carried out by the External Auditors can be found in Note 5 to the consolidated accounts on page 385.
Brendan Nelson Chairman of the Group Audit Committee 27 February 2013 315
