GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 306 Corporate governance continued Individual director and Chairman effectiveness reviews The Chairman and members of the Committee during 2012, together with The Chairman met with each director individually to discuss their own their attendance at meetings in 2012, is shown below.
performance and ongoing professional development and also shared Attended peer feedback that had been provided as part of the evaluation process.
Total number of meetings in 2012 scheduled Separately, IDDAS Limited sought feedback on the Chairmans Philip Hampton Chairman 4 4 performance and prepared the Chairmans development report.
The Sandy Crombie 4 4 Senior Independent Director also canvassed the views on the Chairmans Alison Davis 4 4 performance from the non-executive directors collectively.
The results of Tony Di lorio 4 4 the Chairmans effectiveness review were then discussed by the Penny Hughes 4 4 Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
Joe MacHale 4 4 Brendan Nelson 4 4 Group Nominations Committee Baroness Noakes 4 4 Role of the Group Nominations Committee Art Ryan 1 3 4 The Group Nominations Committee is responsible for: Philip Scott 4 4 x reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and Former member making recommendations to the Board on any appropriate changes: John McFarlane 2 1 1 x assisting the Board in the formal selection and appointment of Notes: 1 Unable to attend one Committee meeting during 2012 due to family illness.
directors executive and non-executive having regard to the overall 2 Retired from the Board on 31 March 2012. balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board: The table below sets out the tenure of non-executive directors.
x reviewing membership and chairmanship of Board committees: x considering succession planning for the Chairman and the executive and non-executive directors, taking into account the skills and expertise which will be needed on the Board in the future.
No director is involved in decisions regarding his or her own succession: 0-2 years and 2-4 years x making recommendations to the Board concerning the re-election by 4 years shareholders of directors under the provisions of the Code.
In so 0-2 years doing, they will have due regard to their performance and ability to 2-4 years continue to contribute to the Board in light of the knowledge, skills and experience required and the need for progressive refreshing of 4 years the Board.
The Group Nominations Committee engages with external consultants, Principal activity of the Group Nominations Committee during 2012 considers potential candidates and recommends appointments of new Consideration of new non-executive directors directors to the Board.
The terms of reference of the Group Nominations During 2012, the Group Nominations Committee kept the structure, size Committee are available on the Groups website www.
com and composition of the Board under review as well as the diversity of skills and experience.
Given that Joe MacHale was expected to step Membership of the Group Nominations Committee down from the Board during 2013, having served as a Non-executive All non-executive directors are members of the Group Nominations Director since 2004, the Group Nominations Committee agreed to Committee which is chaired by the Chairman of the Group.
The Group commence a search for a potential additional non-executive director.
Chief Executive is invited to attend meetings.
The Group Nominations Committee holds at least two scheduled meetings per year, and also The Chairman and Group Secretary developed a role profile and skills meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
In 2012, four meetings of the matrix and engaged Egon Zehnder International, specialist search Group Nominations Committee were held.
consultants, to compile a list of candidates with relevant skills and experience.
This was to ensure that the Group Nominations Committee had access to a wide pool of potentially suitable candidates and the search for potential candidates remains ongoing.
Egon Zehnder International does not provide services to any other part of the Group.
