ARSFS SFS 36 64 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:43 Page 42 Our approach to governance How does RBS comply with key corporate governance standards?
We remain committed to the highest standards Throughout the year ended 31 December 2012, the company has of governance, integrity and professionalism complied with all of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the Group.
issued by the Financial Reporting Council dated June 2010 the Code except in relation to provision D. 2.2 that the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee should have delegated responsibility for setting Philip Hampton remuneration for the Chairman and executive directors.
The company considers that this is a matter which should rightly be Message from the Chairman reserved for the Board.
This approach allows all non-executive directors, and not just those who are members of the Group Performance and It has been a challenging year for the Group, and the banking sector as a Remuneration Committee, to participate in decisions on the executive whole, against a backdrop of difficult market conditions and a fast moving directors and the Chairmans remuneration and also allows the executive regulatory environment.
We are fortunate to have engaged and dedicated directors to input to the decision on the Chairmans remuneration.
No Board members willing to commit extensive time, individually and director is involved in decisions regarding his or her own remuneration.
collectively, to work towards the recovery of the Group and to build a We do not anticipate any changes to our approach on this aspect of the sustainable business.
The Board has dealt with a very full agenda and key priorities during The company has also complied early with a number of the new 2012 have been conduct risk and culture, the changing regulatory provisions included in the new edition of the UK Corporate Governance architecture and regulatory investigations.
It is recognised that a real Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council dated September 2012 change is required in the culture of the banking industry and the Board is the 2012 Code.
A copy of both the Code and the 2012 Code can be committed to driving the required change and setting the appropriate found at www.
The Board is fully engaged in the work to improve standards of behaviour within the RBS Group.
We have also continued to The company has also implemented the recommendations arising from drive the delivery of the Groups Strategic Plan and ensure the Group has the Walker Review and has also complied in all material respects with the sufficient capital and funding to make it safer and stronger for the long Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees issued in term.
During 2013, the Board is expected to continue to focus on capital, September 2012. funding and risk as well as delivery of the Strategic Plan.
Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, specific standards of Events like the IT incident in the summer of 2012 and investigations into corporate governance and business and financial disclosures apply to LIBOR and Markets controls have increased significantly the workload of companies with securities registered in the US.
The company complies the Board during the year.
The Board has demonstrated strong with all applicable sections of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. engagement and leadership in dealing with these matters, and Board committees have also taken a very prominent role, assuming How has the structure and composition of the Board changed?
As a result, the time commitment The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two executive directors and required from our non-executive directors is extremely onerous and I nine independent non-executive directors, one of whom is the Senior would like to thank both the executive and non-executive directors for Independent Director.
The Board functions effectively and efficiently and their outstanding commitment and their contributions to the Board and is considered to be of an appropriate size.
John McFarlane stepped down from the Board in March 2012.
Whilst no new directors were appointed to the Board in 2012, changes were made during the year to the composition of Board committees.
Baroness Philip Hampton Noakes joined the Board Risk Committee, Art Ryan joined the Group Chairman of the Board of directors Performance and Remuneration Committee and Alison Davis became a 27 February 2013 member of the Group Sustainability Committee.
These committees have benefitted from the skills and experience of these directors.
42 ARSFS SFS 36 64 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:43 Page 43 RBS GROUP 2012 Successful governance starts at the top The non-executive directors combine broad business and commercial The Board is the main decision-making forum at Group level, setting the experience with independent and objective judgement.
The balance strategic direction of the Group and ensuring that the Group manages between non-executive and executive directors enables the Board to risk effectively.
provide clear and effective leadership across the Groups business activities.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Is there a boardroom diversity policy?
company and is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational The Board remains supportive of Lord Davies recommendations on performance.
The Boards terms of reference include key aspects of the diversity and currently meets the target of 25 per cent female board companys affairs reserved for the Boards decision.
The Board operates a boardroom diversity policy and the search for Board candidates continues to be conducted with due regard All directors participate in discussing strategy, performance and the to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
However, all appointments to the financial and risk management of the company.
Meetings of the Board Board are based on merit and the skills and experience the individual can are structured to allow sufficient time for consideration of all items and the bring to the Board.
Chairman encourages constructive challenge and debate.
How often are directors re-elected?
The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are distinct and In accordance with the provisions of the Code, all directors of the separate, with a clear division of responsibilities.
The Chairman leads the company are required to stand for re-election annually by shareholders at Board and ensures the effective engagement and contribution of all the companys Annual General Meeting.
Further information in relation to executive and non-executive directors.
The Group Chief Executive has the companys Annual General Meeting can be found in the Chairmans responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in accordance with the letter to shareholders that accompanies the notice of meeting.
authority delegated by the Board.
There are a number of areas where the Board has delegated specific responsibility to management, including How often does the Board meet?
responsibility for the operational management of the Groups businesses There were nine scheduled Board meetings during 2012.
In advance of as well as reviewing strategic issues and risk matters in advance of these each Board meeting, the directors were supplied with comprehensive being considered by the Board and or its committees.
papers in hard copy and or electronic form.
At each Board meeting the Chairman provided a verbal update on his activities and external The directors provide the Board with the mix of knowledge, skills and engagement and the Group Chief Executive provided a written report on experience required.
The Board committees comprise directors with a business activities.
In addition to the scheduled meetings, 28 additional variety of relevant skills and experience so that no undue reliance is meetings of the Board and committees of the Board were held.
43 ARSFS SFS 36 64 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:43 Page 44 Our approach to governance continued How do the directors get the information they need to fulfil their What is the role of the Board committees?
All directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on all relevant The Group Audit Committee is comprised of at least three independent matters and have access to the advice and services of the Group non-executive directors and assists the Board in discharging its Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board responsibilities for the disclosure of the financial affairs of the Group.
It procedures are followed and for advising on all governance matters.
In reviews the accounting policies, financial reporting and regulatory addition, all directors are able, if necessary, to obtain independent compliance practices of the Group, the Groups system and standards of professional advice at the companys expense.
internal controls, and monitors the Groups processes for internal audit and external audit and reviews the practices of the Divisional Risk and Members of the executive management team attend and make regular Audit Committees.
presentations at Board meetings to give the directors greater insight into business areas.
Additionally, the Group Audit Committee and Board Risk The Board Risk Committee is comprised of at least three independent Committee undertake an annual programme of visits to the Groups non-executive directors.
It provides oversight and advice to the Board on business and control functions.
An invitation to attend is extended to all current and potential future risk exposures of the Group and risk strategy.
It reviews the Groups performance on risk appetite and oversees the operation of the Group Policy Framework.
Board induction and continuing professional development In line with the recommendations of the Walker Review and the Code, the The Group Performance and Remuneration Committee is comprised Group has a comprehensive induction programme for new directors that of at least three independent non-executive directors and has oversight of is kept under review by the Group Secretary.
Each new director receives the Groups policy on remuneration.
It also considers senior executive a formal induction on joining the Board, including visits to the Groups remuneration and makes recommendations to the Board on remuneration major divisions and meetings with directors and senior management and of executive directors.
Each induction programme includes a mandatory element and the remainder of the induction is tailored to the new The Group Nominations Committee comprises all of the non-executive directors specific requirements.
directors, and is chaired by the Chairman of the Group.
It assists the Board in the selection and appointment of directors.
It reviews the As part of their ongoing professional development, directors are advised structure, size and composition of the Board, and membership and of appropriate external training and professional development chairmanship of Board committees.
opportunities and undertake the training and professional development they consider necessary to assist them to carry out their duties as The Group Sustainability Committee comprises of independent nondirectors.
Internal training is also provided, tailored to the business of the executive directors and is chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
is responsible for overseeing and challenging how management is addressing sustainability and reputation issues relating to all stakeholder How does the Board review its performance?
groups, except where such issues have already been dealt with by other The Board reviews its performance annually.
An external evaluation of Board committees.
the Board takes place every three years and an internal evaluation takes place in the intervening years.
The 2011 evaluation was conducted The Executive Committee is responsible for managing Group-wide internally by the Group Secretary and the recommendations from the issues and those operational issues that affect the broader Group.
It 2011 evaluation have been implemented in full.
reviews strategic issues and initiatives, monitors financial performance and capital allocations and considers risk strategy, policy and risk In 2012, the Board and Committee evaluation process was independently management.
facilitated by IDDAS Limited, a specialist board evaluation consultancy that has no other connection with the Group.
IDDAS Limited undertook How do the Committees interact?
the evaluation using a detailed framework of questions to structure The Chair of each committee reports back to the Board on matters raised individual meetings held with each director.
Amongst the areas reviewed at committee meetings to ensure that other Board members are kept were Board structure, membership including diversity and processes, appraised of the areas considered by each committee.
Additionally, Board committees, director competence, independence and behaviour.
agendas for committee meetings are circulated to all directors for The 2012 performance evaluation has concluded that the Board and information.
Board committees are operating effectively.
