EXECUTIVE TEAM The Executive Team comprises the Executive Directors whose biographies are on pages 36 to 37 and the following senior executives: PAUL DONALDSON VANESSA EVANS Group Broker Relationship Group Human Resources Director and Sales Director Paul was appointed Group Broker Vanessa was appointed Group Human Relationship and Sales Director in July 2011.
She Paul has over 35 years experience in the joined RSA in 2005 as UK Human Resources insurance industry, having joined RSA in Business Partner Director for Claims and 1976.
He has held a number of leadership Finance and has worked in a variety of roles in RSA, including CEO for the roles across the Group.
In 2006 she was Republic of Ireland and Managing Director, appointed as Human Resources Director Commercial in RSAs UK business.
for the Emerging Markets Region.
In 2008, she was promoted to UK Human Resources Director.
Prior to working at RSA, Vanessa was HR Director Global Retail at Lego and before that Head of HR for Gap, the international clothing retailer.
ROWAN SAUNDERS DEREK WALSH President & CEO, RSA Canada Group General Counsel and Group Company Secretary Rowan was appointed to the position Derek joined RSA as Group General of President & CEO of RSA Canada in Counsel and Group Company Secretary in September 2003 and is a member of the July 2010 and has over 18 years experience Canadian Board of Directors.
He is also in the insurance industry.
From 2002, he a member of the Group Executive served as Group General Counsel at Committee.
Since joining RSA in 1987, Benfield Group Limited, where he was Rowan has held progressive leadership responsible for the global legal, company positions in the areas of underwriting, secretarial and compliance teams.
Prior marketing, sales and finance.
He is a to that, Derek held positions in law firms member of the Board of Directors of Pinsent Curtis now Pinsent Masons, the Insurance Bureau of Canada IBC McKenna & Co now CMS Cameron and was the IBCs past Chair.
38 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MIKE HOLLIDAY-WILLIAMS CAROLINE RAMSAY TIMOTHY MITCHELL Chief Executive, Scandinavia Group Chief Auditor Group Underwriting and Claims Director Mike was appointed CEO of Scandinavia in Caroline has been with the Group since Tim was appointed Group Underwriting February 2011.
She was appointed Group Chief and Claims Director in November 2007 A S and CEO of Trygg-Hansa.
He joined Auditor in September 2012 having been when he joined the Group.
Tim has RSA in 2006 and was previously Managing Group Financial Planning & Analysis nearly 40 years experience in the Director for RSAs UK Personal lines Director and UK Finance Director.
He joined RSA from operation, which includes MORE TH N to joining RSA, Caroline held a number Zurich Financial Services where senior and the Managing Director of RSAs UK of finance roles at Aviva and spent underwriting roles included three years retail business.
Before joining RSA, Mike 12 years at KPMG.
as Global Chief Underwriting Officer worked in the energy, telecoms and retail for General Insurance.
Tim has also held sectors, beginning his career at WH Smith senior management roles at AIG and Limited, before subsequently moving to Continental Insurance.
Tim is a various Centrica owned businesses, including member of the Cheltenham Ladies British Gas and Onetel.
DAVID WEYMOUTH PAUL WHITTAKER Group Chief Risk Officer Chief Executive, Emerging Markets Currently Group Chief Risk Officer, David Paul was appointed Chief Executive of joined the Group in June 2007 and was Emerging Markets in 2006 and the business Group Operations and Risk Director until has since more than doubled in size.
Immediately prior to that has over 20 years senior management David spent two years consulting to blue experience in the financial services sector chip and government organisations.
including three years at AXA and ten years Previously David was CIO at Barclays at GE Capital, including work in Asia and and a member of the Group Executive Eastern Europe on acquisition integration Committee.
He has extensive nonand business development.
executive experience and is currently a NED at the Royal London Group and at the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 39 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board is committed to ensuring high standards of r Review of the Companys overall corporate corporate governance and believes that a solid corporate governance arrangements governance framework enables efficient and effective r Delegation of authority to the Group Chief Executive.
decision-making with clear responsibilities, leading to the achievement of the Companys objectives and the delivery 2012 KEY ACTIVITIES of long-term value to shareholders.
Key areas of focus r Dedicated strategy sessions and updates throughout the year for the Board include developing the Groups strategy, r Approving the 2013 Operational Plan and risk appetite for monitoring financial performance and ensuring standards the Group of conduct and accountability across the Group r Approving the changes to the Board which took place during the year, including the selection of a new Chairman Martin Scicluna r Considering matters relating to the Corporate Governance Chairman Framework and Solvency II implementation r Considering corporate merger, acquisition and disposal activity Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code material to the Group as a whole Throughout the year, the Company has complied with the Principles and r Monitoring material claims and reinsurance matters Provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code with the r Monitoring the Companys policy in relation to bribery exception that the former Chairman did not review and agree training and corruption and development needs with each Director.
It is the intention that each r Monitoring Group financial performance Director will agree their training requirements with the Chairman in 2013. r Reviewing the Dividend Policy r Ensuring ongoing compliance with regulatory requirements and Further explanation on how the Main Principles in the Code have been maintaining a positive relationship with the Companys regulators applied is set out below and in the Directors Remuneration Report r Ensuring the UK business continues to treat customers fairly.
and Group Audit Committee Report as applicable.
In addition to the schedule of matters reserved for the Board, each The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website of its Committees, Group Audit, Group Remuneration, Group www.
Nomination, Board Risk and Group Investment, has written terms of reference defining their role and the authority delegated to them.
LEADERSHIP The schedule of matters reserved for the Board and the terms of The Role of the Board reference for each of the Board Committees were reviewed in the year The Board is responsible for organising and directing the affairs of and are available on the Companys website www.
Further the Company in a manner that is most likely to promote its success details on the principal duties of each of the Board Committees can be for the benefit of its members as a whole.
Its role is to provide found under Accountability commencing on page 43, in the Group Audit entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework Committee Report on pages 52 to 54 and the Directors Remuneration of prudent and effective controls.
There is a schedule of matters reserved for the Board The Board sets annual objectives for the business in line with the which includes: current Group strategy and monitors achievement of the Companys objectives through regular reports which include updates from the r Strategy and management of the Company, including formal Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer Group CFO approval of the Groups overall risk appetite on all material business matters.
The Board has a standing agenda of r Changes to the financial and legal structure and share capital items that are regularly considered which is continually refreshed to of the Company include any topical matters that arise.
r Financial reporting and controls, including approval of financial statements, interim dividends and recommending final dividends The Board held ten scheduled meetings during the year and two to shareholders additional single purpose meetings.
Where a Director was not r Reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls available to attend a meeting, where possible their views were r Approving significant expenditure and material transactions canvassed by the Chairman prior to the relevant meeting and the and contracts Board informed of their opinions and observations.
When considering r Shareholder communications including circulars and material matters such as the approval of financial statements and large stock exchange announcements operational contracts, the Board may delegate authority to a r Appointment and removal of Directors and the Group General Committee to finalise and approve as required.
Counsel and Group Company Secretary r Determining the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, Formal minutes recording the decisions of all Board and Committee the Chairman, Group General Counsel and Group Company meetings are prepared and circulated to each Director.
If a Director Secretary and senior executives objects to a particular decision this is recorded in the minutes of the relevant meeting.
40 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The attendance of Directors at Board meetings during the year is set leadership needs of the Group and makes recommendations to the out below: Board on matters relating to the Boards membership.
During the year, the Chairman held meetings with the Non-Executive BOARD MEETINGS Scheduled Additional Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
The Senior Independent Director held meetings with the Non-Executive Directors Membership and attendance at 2012 meetings without the Chairman present which, in addition to other matters, 1 John Napier Chairman 10 10 2 2 reviewed the Chairmans performance.
Alastair Barbour 10 10 1 2 Adrian Brown 9 10 2 2 Non-Executive Directors are initially appointed for a three year term 2 with an expectation that they will continue for at least a further three George Culmer 4 4 0 0 year term.
Noel Harwerth 9 10 2 2 3 Richard Houghton 5 6 2 2 Chairman and Group Chief Executive Edward Lea 10 10 2 2 The roles of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive are separate and complementary, with responsibilities clearly divided and set out in Simon Lee 10 10 2 2 role statements, which are available on the Companys website, Malcolm Le May 9 10 2 2 www.
John Maxwell 9 10 0 2 4 Hugh Mitchell 3 3 2 2 Their roles comprise the following principal responsibilities: Chairman Jos Streppel 10 10 1 2 r Ensuring the Board operates effectively including the receipt Johanna Waterous 10 10 2 2 of accurate, timely and clear information r Leading the Board in reviewing the recommended strategic Notes: 1.
John Napier retired from the Board with effect from 31 December 2012. operating plans and budgets 2.
George Culmer resigned as a Director on 14 May 2012. r Ensuring that appropriate and related objectives are established 3.
Richard Houghton was appointed to the Board on 12 June 2012. for the Group Chief Executive and Executive Team 4.
Hugh Mitchell was appointed to the Board on 26 September 2012. r Maintaining effective communication between the Board and Delegated authorities shareholders The Group operates a Delegated Authority Framework which specifies r Ensuring the Board has the right balance of skills and experience how Executive authority is delegated from the Board to the Group to support the needs of the business Chief Executive and onward delegation to other executives in the r Facilitating the effective contribution of the Non-Executive Directors Group.
Senior executives across the Group receive an executive licence r Consulting with the Senior Independent Director on Board setting out their specific limits of authority in terms of entering into matters as required.
financial, underwriting, claims and other business commitments.
Each executive is responsible for ensuring a similar process of delegation is Group Chief Executive in place within his or her area of responsibility.
Further detail on the r Recommending strategy and objectives to the Board, ensuring overall risk framework is set out on pages 26 to 29. implementation in line with agreed business plans and budgets r Reporting to the Board on the executive management of the Company Directors r Monitoring the performance of the Group and its main subsidiaries, The names of the Directors together with their biographical and ensuring that objectives agreed upon are achieved and reported Committee membership details are set out on pages 36 and 37 and are to the Board incorporated into this report by reference.
Details of the Directors service r Liaising with the Chairman on issues which relate to the Board contracts and terms of appointment, together with their interests in the and keeping the Chairman informed on all material matters Companys shares, are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report relating to the performance of the Company and its strategic on pages 55 to 71 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
and market circumstances r Assessing risk issues, making recommendations in relation to risk Non-Executive Directors appetite and reporting on risk exposure on a regular basis to the Board The Non-Executive Directors challenge and agree the Groups strategy r Monitoring and reviewing progress on the strategic plan with Executive management and assess their performance against it.
r Reviewing the organisational framework to ensure that policies Financial controls and systems are assessed through the Group Audit relating to management selection, performance review, development Committee, Board Risk Committee and the Board.
The Group and change are appropriate, enabling the Company to operate Remuneration Committee sets levels of remuneration for the Executive in the upper quartile of management effectiveness, ensuring that Directors and senior management.
The Group Nomination Committee management succession plans are in place is responsible for reviewing the balance of skills, experience, r Developing and maintaining an internal and external independence and knowledge required by the Board and the senior communications strategy Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 41 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED r Ensuring adequate standards of financial management and control Independence are in place and that the Company complies with relevant legal The Board considers all the Companys Non-Executive Directors to be and regulatory requirements independent in character and judgement.
Collectively they contribute r Representing the Company as required in the industry and to an effective Board with a strong mix of skills and business experience, business community.
with each Director contributing significant weight to business decisions.
Senior Independent Director The independence of those Directors who have been on the Board for Edward Lea is the Senior Independent Director.
A role statement more than nine years has been subject to particular scrutiny.
The Group setting out the responsibilities of this position is available on the Nomination Committee and the Board are satisfied that each of them Companys website, www.
continue to bring to the role all the skills and attributes required from them and that the term of their appointment has no bearing on their The principal responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director are: continued independence.
The Board considers that no relationships or r Providing support, as requested by the Chairman, in the delivery circumstances exist as specified in the Code which may be relevant to of his responsibilities the determination of independence and no Executive Director will have r Being available to shareholders if they have concerns which have served on the Board for the same nine year period.
The Directors not been resolved or are not appropriate to be dealt with through offering themselves for election or re-election at the 2013 AGM are contact with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or other shown in the Notice of Meeting.
Executive Directors r Chairing the Group Nomination Committee when it is considering Commitment the matter of succession for the Chairman of the Board The Chairmans letter of appointment anticipates an expected time r Assisting, if requested by the Chairman, in matters of Board evaluation commitment involving attendance at all Board meetings, the AGM and r Ensuring that the views of each of the Non-Executive Directors are Board Committee meetings which the Chairman chairs or of which he is given due consideration and facilitating communication between a member, as well as being required from time to time to attend meetings Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
with major shareholders, employees and professional advisers.
It is anticipated that this will require a minimum time commitment of two days EFFECTIVENESS per week.
In addition, the Chairman has agreed as part of his induction, to commit at least fifteen additional business days during which he will Composition of the Board meet senior management and visit operations across the Group.
The Board believes that it has the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to enable it and its Martin Scicluna, who was appointed as a Director and Chairman with Committees to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively, effect from 1 January 2013, is also Chairman of Great Portland Estates as required by the Code.
The Board is satisfied that it is of a size plc and is a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee appropriate to the needs of the business and that no individual of Lloyds Banking Group plc.
The Board is satisfied that these Director can dominate the Boards decision taking.
commitments are not a constraint on the Chairmans ability to carry out his duties.
During 2012, the former Chairman John Napier was also Board Appointments Chairman of Aegis Group plc and the Board was satisfied that his other When appointing new Directors, regard is given to the size of the commitments did not interfere with the performance of his role.
Board, the balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the benefits of diversity, including gender.
The Board considers the skills, Service agreements and letters of appointment, for both the Executive experience, independence and knowledge already represented when and Non-Executive Directors, are available for inspection at the making decisions on new appointments and ensures that succession Companys registered office and at the AGM.
The letters of planning processes are in place.
appointment for each of the Non-Executive Directors state that in accepting the appointment, the Director confirms that he she is able The Board reviews the membership of its Committees on a regular basis to allocate sufficient time to meet the expectations of the role, with to ensure they remain appropriate.
Further details on changes to Board an anticipated time commitment of 28-32 days per year.
Committee membership are contained in the relevant Committee report.
Only members of the Board Committees are entitled to attend The Executive Directors of the Company, Simon Lee, Richard Houghton Committee meetings: however, the Committee or its chairman may invite and Adrian Brown, do not hold outside Directorships of FTSE 100 or any Directors, other executives of the Group or any external professional any other listed companies but would be allowed to have one such advisers to attend all or part of any meetings as and when required.
appointment, subject to the approval of the Chairman.
Further details of appointments to the Board are contained in the Induction and Professional Development report of the Group Nomination Committee below.
On appointment to the Board and any Committees, Directors undertake an induction programme and receive a broad range of information about the Company which is appropriate to their existing knowledge and experience.
This includes information on the 42 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE operational performance and business of the Group and details of The Board evaluation for 2012, which concluded in February 2013, was Board procedures, governance matters and Directors responsibilities, conducted by way of a structured questionnaire.
The questionnaire along with a series of meetings with members of the Board and considered the balance of skills, experience, independence and Executive management on business and regulatory matters.
knowledge of the Company represented on the Board, how the Board works together as a unit, its diversity and the effectiveness of the Board To keep them informed of matters which are material to the Group, as a whole.
The evaluation of individual Directors considered whether Directors receive updates from the Group Executive on the financial each Director contributed effectively and continued to demonstrate and operational performance of the business.
Development and training commitment to the role.
Priorities identified by the evaluation for focus for the Directors is an ongoing process which includes briefings on in 2013 included a commitment to increasing the diversity of the Board legislative and regulatory changes and on corporate governance matters and ensuring appropriate use is made of the Non-Executive Directors affecting the Group and other topics such as employee engagement skills both inside and outside formal meetings, along with support for and corporate responsibility.
To date the Company has included tailored training programmes.
The evaluation confirmed each Director questions regarding training requirements in the Board and Committee continues to be an effective member of the Board.
Training requests have been recorded and actioned: however, individual training plans were not agreed.
It is the intention The Group Audit Committee, Board Risk Committee and Group that each Director will agree their training requirements with the Remuneration Committee also conducted evaluations of their Chairman in 2013.
During the year, one Board meeting was held performance during 2012.
Further details of each of these reviews overseas, affording the Non-Executive Directors an opportunity to gain can be found in the relevant Committee reports.
further insight into the business, the local management team and the culture.
It is intended that a Board meeting will be held overseas in In 2013, the Board intends to carry out an external evaluation of its 2013, allowing a similar opportunity in a different business region.
performance as recommended by the Code.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors also visit different parts Re-election of the Group to meet with local management and deepen their The Directors and shareholders by ordinary resolution may appoint a understanding of the business.
In 2012 these included John Napier person who is willing to be a Director either to fill a casual vacancy or visiting Canada to meet with the President & CEO of RSA Canada and as an additional Director.
In accordance with the Code, each Director the Canadian Senior Management team, Alastair Barbour attending a will submit themselves for election or re-election, as appropriate, Codan Audit Committee meeting in Denmark and meetings with the at each AGM.
Resolutions to elect or re-elect Directors at the UK Finance and Reinsurance teams, Johanna Waterous attending an AGM are subject to the approval of the Board, taking into account Irish Audit Committee meeting and Noel Harwerth attending a Latin the recommendations of the Group Nomination Committee.
Shareholders may, by ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given, remove any Director before the expiration of his period Information and Support of office.
The Board considers that the information provided to the Board and its Committees is supplied in a timely manner and is of an appropriate ACCOUNTABILITY quality to enable it to discharge its duties.
Financial and Business Reporting The Group General Counsel and Group Company Secretary is A balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and responsible for assisting the Chairman with arranging induction prospects, an explanation of its business model and the strategy for and professional development for the Directors and for bringing all delivering the objectives of the Company are contained in the Business governance matters to the attention of the Board.
The Directors have Review on pages 8 to 33.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities access to the services and advice of the Group General Counsel and can be found on page 74 and reports from the external auditor can be Group Company Secretary and in addition may take independent found on page 75. professional advice at the expense of the Company in the furtherance of their duties.
Going concern In considering the appropriateness of the going concern basis, the Board Performance evaluation has reviewed the Groups ongoing financial commitments for the next In late 2011 and early 2012, there was an internal review of Board 12 months and beyond.
The Boards review included consideration of performance, starting with an evaluation of the Committees and the Groups underwriting plans, regulatory capital positions, diverse concluding with that of the Board.
The Board review commenced in insurance risk profile, undrawn financing facilities and investment December 2011 and was concluded in January 2012.
As a result of this review, the Directors have satisfied of the Board Committees took place between November 2012 and themselves that it is appropriate to prepare these financial statements January 2013.
In light of the impending retirement of John Napier as on a going concern basis.
Chairman on 31 December 2012, it was decided to defer the next annual evaluation of the Board until Martin Scicluna was in situ as the new Chairman in January 2013.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 43 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD COMMITTEES r Reviewing the quantum of the ICA and ECA capital models r Reviewing risks facing the Group by type and region at each meeting The reports of the Group Audit Committee and the Group r Monitoring progress on preparation for compliance with the Remuneration Committee are set out on pages 52 to 54 and Solvency II regulatory framework 55 to 71 respectively.
r Undertaking an effectiveness review of the Committees performance in 2012 BOARD RISK COMMITTEE REPORT r Reviewing the Remuneration Policy and any implications for risk and risk management The Committee is authorised to advise on risk r Reviewing and challenging the proposed reinsurance arrangements management issues and recommend the Group for 2013. framework of risk limits and risk appetite to the Board.
During 2012 the Committee has reviewed the Groups Membership material risks in the context of the overall risk strategy In 2012 the Committee comprised two Non-Executive Directors, the and appetite of the Group.
The scope of the Committees Group Chief Executive and Group CFO.
In addition, the Group Chief remit includes existing and emerging risks facing the Risk Officer, Group Risk Director, Group General Counsel and Group Group in relation to market, credit, liquidity, insurance Company Secretary, Group Director of Corporate Finance, Group and operational risk.
The Committee is assisted in Underwriting & Claims Director and Regional Risk Directors are all discharging its responsibilities by the risk function and regular attendees.
The Committee Chairman may invite Directors, regional risk committees other executives of the Group or any external professional advisers to attend from time to time.
The Chairman, Martin Scicluna, was Noel Harwerth appointed to the Committee with effect from 8 February 2013.
With Chair, Board Risk Committee effect from 1 March 2013 Edward Lea and Alastair Barbour will become members of this Committee, with Edward Lea succeeding Noel Harwerth as Chairman of the Committee.
BOARD RISK COMMITTEE Terms of Reference Membership and attendance at 2012 meetings The terms of reference set out the authority of the Committee to Noel Harwerth Chair 4 4 carry out its duties.
The Committee reviewed its terms of reference 1 George Culmer 0 1 during the year and these are available on the Companys website, 2 Richard Houghton 3 3 www.
Simon Lee 2 4 The terms of reference are reviewed to ensure they reflect the Malcolm Le May 3 4 requirements of the Group and meet current best practice and industry guidance.
The BRC has a standing agenda to ensure that all Notes: 1.
George Culmer resigned from the Committee with effect from 14 May 2012. items within its terms of reference are covered by the Committee.
Richard Houghton was appointed to the Committee with effect from 12 June 2012.
BRC agendas may include greater focus on specific risk disciplines or individual insurance portfolios as considered appropriate through PRINCIPAL DUTIES OF THE BOARD RISK COMMITTEE BRC pre-meeting discussions between the BRC Chairman and the r To recommend the Group framework of risk limits and risk Group Risk Director.
appetite to the Board r To review the quantum of capital required for the Individual Meetings Capital Assessment ICA and Economic Capital Assessment ECA The BRC oversees and challenges the results of stress and scenario r To ensure that material risks have been identified tests carried out by the Group Risk team and the business.
These tests and mitigated appropriately are carried out each year with the involvement of senior executives to r To approve new and amended Group policies assess the Groups resilience in relation to extreme but plausible events r To approve the remit of the Group Risk team that could have a material impact on the Group.
The aim is to enable r To review the Remuneration Policy for any implications management and the BRC to better understand the dynamics of the for risk and risk management Groups risk profile, identify potential mitigation strategies for such r To review and monitor emerging risks.
events and act as a validation tool for both the Groups capital modelling process and its risk appetite.
2012 KEY ACTIVITIES r Reviewing and challenging the Groups risk appetite These tests involve exploring a range of scenarios which could adversely and material risk profile impact the Groups assets, liabilities and or operational performance.
r Reviewing results of stress and scenario tests The BRC has continued to evaluate the impact of scenarios such as a r Considering emerging risks Euro sovereign debt default and the collapse of the Euro from a Group r Reviewing and approving changes to Group policies perspective.
In 2012 the programme was extended across our 14 44 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE European Economic Area legal entities covering scenarios around the GROUP INVESTMENT COMMITTEE seven risk types: Catastrophe, Non-catastrophe, Reserve, Reinsurance, 1, 2 Credit, Market, Strategic and a single Reverse Stress Test.
The results Membership and attendance at 2012 meetings demonstrated the Groups resilience on both an absolute and relative Malcolm Le May Chairman 2 2 basis to the scenarios considered.
The results also allowed for the Alastair Barbour 2 2 identification of potential additional management actions that could 3 be taken to protect customers, shareholders and operations.
Richard Houghton 2 2 Simon Lee 2 2 In addition to monitoring risks that are already recognised as material to the Group, the BRC monitors emerging risks that could threaten the Groups Notes: 1.
George Culmer resigned from the Committee with effect from 14 May 2012, before position of competitive advantage or successful delivery of strategy to the first meeting of the year.
ensure that plans are put in place where possible to mitigate such risks.
Noel Harwerth, Edward Lea, John Maxwell, John Napier, Jos Streppel and Johanna Waterous resigned from the Committee prior to the first meeting of the year following a review of the Committees constitution.
During the year, the BRC has received regular updates from the 3.
Solvency II Steering Committee on the Groups preparation for the implementation of Solvency II and its impact on the business.
Solvency II is a fundamental overhaul of the regulatory capital adequacy regime for PRINCIPAL DUTIES OF THE GROUP INVESTMENT COMMITTEE insurers and reinsurers within the EU.
The deadline for compliance with r To assist the Board in setting the Groups investment strategy Solvency II has been postponed and the FSA is working towards an r To monitor the execution of that strategy and the Groups implementation date of January 2016.
Solvency II requires regulated investment performance.
insurers and reinsurers to have an effective system of governance in place which provides for sound and prudent management of the 2012 KEY ACTIVITIES business.
This includes ensuring that Board members possess sufficient r Reviewing activity in the Groups investment portfolio relevant professional qualifications, knowledge and experience to r Approving and monitoring investment strategy implementation ensure that, collectively, they provide sound and prudent corporate and portfolio results.
There is an ongoing programme to document the governance policy and processes within each regulated Group company Membership within the EU to ensure that a consistent and high standard of During the year, the membership of the Committee was reviewed governance is maintained throughout the Group, which includes training and revised to become the Group Chief Executive, Group CFO and Directors on Solvency II and the Companys Internal Capital Model.
The Group Investments Director attends all meetings of the Committee to provide an update on the The minutes of the regional risk committees are provided to the BRC economic and market background and outlook affecting the Group, and the regional risk Directors regularly present to the BRC.
the investment activities taken since the Committee last met and any portfolio actions which require the Committees approval.
The Evaluation Chairman, Martin Scicluna, was appointed to the Committee with The evaluation of the Board Risk Committee, which was conducted effect from 8 February 2013 and with effect from 1 March 2013 Jos by way of a structured questionnaire, included a review of the annual Streppel will become a member of the Committee.
planning cycle, the number and length of meetings and the quality of information provided.
It also considered the responsiveness of Terms of Reference management to the Committees requests and the Committees The Committee is authorised by the Board to manage all aspects of challenge of management.
Priorities identified by the evaluation investment policy and strategy for the Group and provide oversight of for focus in 2013 included training for new Committee members, the operation of the Groups investment portfolios within established continued focus on both key areas of risk by type and region and strategy and risk frameworks.
The terms of reference set out the the ongoing challenge of managements risk assessments.
authority of the Committee to carry out its duties.
The Committee reviewed its terms of reference during the year and these are available GROUP INVESTMENT COMMITTEE REPORT on the Companys website at www.
Global economic and market conditions remained Meetings challenging during 2012.
Against this background the Strategic themes relating to cash, bonds, equities and alternative yield Committee has continued to ensure that the Group assets were discussed during 2012, together with options for the Group maintains its prudent approach to the management of to enhance its income in an environment of historically low interest investment assets whilst successfully taking advantage rates and bond yields, whilst retaining the high quality and low risk of selective opportunities to enhance portfolio income nature of the portfolios.
Details of the Groups investment activities are contained in the Financial Review on pages 14 to 17.
Malcolm Le May Chairman, Group Investment Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 45 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED GROUP NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Terms of Reference The terms of reference set out the authority of the Committee to carry During the year the Committee continued to focus out its duties.
The Committee reviewed its terms of reference during on ensuring that the right balance of skills, experience, the year and these are available on the Companys website, knowledge and independence is represented on the www.
Board both currently and in the future.
In doing so, the Committee identified potential new appointees When appointing new Directors, regard is given to the size of the and made recommendations to the Board regarding Board, the balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the the appointment of a new Executive Director, a new benefits of diversity, including gender.
The Committee considers the Non-Executive Director and a new Chairman, all skills, experience, independence and knowledge already represented of whom bring complementary skills to maintain when making recommendations to the Board on new appointments.
the quality of the Board During the year, MWM Consulting Limited, an external search agency Edward Lea specialising in the recruitment of Directors, was engaged to assist the Senior Independent Director Company.
A description of the role and the capabilities required for each appointment were provided to the agency.
Reports on potential appointees were provided to the Committee members who, after GROUP NOMINATION COMMITTEE careful consideration, made a recommendation to the Board.
MWM Consulting Limited is independent and has no other relationship with Membership and attendance at 2012 meetings the Company.
1 John Napier Chairman 6 6 Edward Lea 6 6 During 2012, the Committee considered and recommended to the John Maxwell 6 6 Board the appointment of Richard Houghton as an Executive Director and Group CFO, Hugh Mitchell as a Non-Executive Director and Johanna Waterous 6 6 Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee and Martin Scicluna Notes: as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Company.
John Napier retired as a Director and member of the Committee with effect from candidates were considered to complement the existing skills, experience 31 December 2012. and knowledge on the Board, with sufficient time to dedicate to the role.
PRINCIPAL DUTIES OF THE GROUP NOMINATION COMMITTEE Group Remuneration Committee r To keep under review the capabilities required by the Board Full details of the activities and duties of the Group Remuneration and the leadership needs of the Group Committee can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report r To review succession planning for the Board on pages 55 to 71. r To manage the process of identifying potential Board appointees, seeking advice from external advisers as appropriate for Group Audit Committee recommending candidates for assessment by the Board as a whole Full details of the activities and duties of the Group Audit Committee r To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the can be found in the Group Audit Committee Report on pages 52 to 54. re-appointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of his her specified term of office.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS 2012 KEY ACTIVITIES Dialogue with institutional shareholders r Managing the process of identifying Board appointees The Board attaches considerable importance to its relationships and r Recommending the appointment of a new Chairman communication with shareholders.
Senior management meet principal r Recommending the appointment of a new Executive Director institutional shareholders on a regular basis and Non-Executive r Recommending the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director.
Directors are available to meet with institutional shareholders as required.
Executive Directors attended 68 meetings with investors Membership during 2012.
The Board is made aware of significant issues raised by All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive shareholders.
The Board receives regular reports from the Investor Directors, with the exception of both the former Chairman and Relations team on the views of institutional shareholders.
Presentations the current Chairman who were independent on appointment.
and meetings are conducted in compliance with the Companys Inside The Chairman chairs the Committee unless it is dealing with matters Information Policy and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules to ensure regarding his succession.
The Chairman, Martin Scicluna, was appointed that inside information is not disclosed prior to it being made available to the Committee with effect from 8 February 2013 and with effect to shareholders generally.
from 1 March 2013, John Maxwell ceases to be a member of the Committee with Alastair Barbour and Hugh Mitchell joining the Committee on the same date.
46 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Substantial Share Interests At 31 December 2012 At 19 February 2013 No.
of % of ordinary voting ordinary voting shares rights Nature of holding shares rights Nature of holding Blackrock, Inc 188,217,284 5.46 Indirect 188,217,284 5.46 Indirect Legal & General Group plc 136,295,990 3.99 Direct and Indirect 136,295,990 3.99 Direct and Indirect Indirect as Indirect as Newton Investment discretionary discretionary Management Ltd 168,455,475 4.88 investment manager 168,455,475 4.88 investment manager Schroders plc 170,851,201 4.95 Direct and Indirect 170,851,201 4.95 Direct and Indirect Standard Life Investments Ltd 152,266,879 4.42 Direct and Indirect 152,266,879 4.42 Direct and Indirect Substantial share interests redemption or purchase of shares, or in such other circumstances The table above shows the holdings of major shareholders notified to as the Board shall determine.
In any of these situations the preference the Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency shareholders may only vote on the relevant resolution and not on all Rules as at 31 December 2012 and the date of this Report.
the business of the general meeting.
Annual General Meeting AGM OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION The AGM will be held at 200 Aldersgate, St Pauls, London EC1A 4HD on Wednesday, 15 May 2013 at 11.00am.
A letter from the Chairman Principal activity and the notice convening the AGM Notice is made available to all The Company is the holding company of the RSA group of companies ordinary shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting the Group whose principal activity is the transaction of personal and and can be found at www.
The Group operates in 32 countries and provides general insurance products and services in Presentations are given on the Companys performance and activities around 140 countries.
during the year and the financial results of the Company prior to the formal business of the meeting.
All Directors are requested to attend Business review and results the AGM.
The Chairman and each Board Committee chairman make Throughout this Annual Report, the Business Review on pages 8 to 33 themselves available to take questions from ordinary shareholders at and the Directors and Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 the AGM.
to 54, the Board seeks to present a balanced and clear assessment of the Groups activities, position and prospects.
Each of those sections Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantive issue.
In is incorporated by reference into the Directors and Corporate accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association Articles, Governance Report, which is comprised of those reports, the any proxy form sent by the Company to shareholders in relation to any information set out below and the other information which is general meeting must be delivered to the Company, whether in written incorporated by reference.
The Groups results for the financial form or in electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the time for year are shown in the consolidated income statement on page 76. holding the meeting excluding non business days or, in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting, not less Employment policy than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
The Groups approach and employment policies reflect its belief that motivated, engaged and skilled employees are critical to its success.
At any general meeting, every ordinary shareholder present shall have one vote on a show of hands and on a poll, every ordinary shareholder The Group is committed to the promotion of equal opportunities for present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for each share of which all employees and creating a working environment that fosters diversity he is the holder.
Each resolution will be put to a poll at the AGM in 2013. and inclusion.
The Group seeks to ensure that recruitment, talent The results of the vote on each resolution will be announced to the selection and development, reward, performance management and London Stock Exchange and will be available on the Companys website, internal promotion are all carried out solely on the grounds of ability www.
and are entirely free from any form of discrimination.
To do this, all reasonable adjustments are made, where it is appropriate to do so, Preference shareholders are only entitled to receive notice of, attend, to our policies, practices, processes and terms and conditions of speak and vote at general meetings if the dividend payable on the employment.
The Group is also committed, wherever possible, to preference shares is in arrears at the date of the Notice, a resolution employing people who are disabled or become disabled during their is proposed that affects the rights of the preference shareholders, career with the Group.
Diversity and inclusion are encouraged and a resolution is proposed to wind up the Company, a resolution is supported and in 2012 a Global Forum was established, sponsored proposed to reduce the capital of the Company other than a by Group and Regional CEOs, to ensure further focus and progress Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 47 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED in this area.
Information on the diversity of the Groups workforce business.
The Group Chief Executive and Executive Team actively can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
The 2013 manage senior group succession plans and prepare and develop leaders Corporate Responsibility Report will be published in May 2013 and for future roles.
In terms of performance management, every employee will be available on the Companys website, www.
works with their line manager to create individual performance goals and a personal development plan for the year, which is supported by The Group is committed to fostering a constructive relationship with a journal to review and measure progress.
recognised independent trade unions, ensuring a regular and open dialogue on business issues and early consultation on changes affecting Alongside talent and development programmes, the Group has built the workforce.
In the UK, Unite is formally recognised through a Centres of Excellence and Academies that support specialist and partnership agreement which covers collective consultation and technical expertise and the sharing of best practice globally.
There bargaining on behalf of non-management employees.
The Management are Centres of Excellence for Marketing and eBusiness, as well as Association TMA represents managerial employees under a separate a long established Technical Academy.
In Scandinavia, the Group has formal meeting forums with the national unions, where the Group informs and The Technical Academy continually aims to enhance the technical negotiates changes affecting the workforce.
Within the Groups CNS capabilities of the Groups underwriting, claims and actuarial staff by operation in British Columbia, Canada, there is a collective bargaining providing bespoke technical training, identifying talent, facilitating career agreement with the Canadian Office and Professional Employees development, analysing skills gaps, developing global best practice and Union.
The European Works Council EWC is a cross European body supporting and recognising the attainment of technical skills and that meets annually and was created to enable information sharing and qualifications within the Group.
The Academy also runs a two year consultation on transnational issues affecting our European workforce.
Global Technical Graduate Programme which had 25 participants in the 2012 cohort.
The Group continues to focus on the training and development of employees in order to ensure they can deliver high levels of leadership, Through the Marketing Centre of Excellence, the Group aims to build performance and customer satisfaction.
The Group believes it can a world class marketing community.
The award winning Marketing create competitive advantage by building and maintaining a high Academy provides both e-learning and face to face training throughout performance culture.
the year and to date over 350 people, from 12 countries, have attended the foundation course as well as further specialist master classes.
In The Executive Development Programme is a challenging, world class addition, the marketing community regularly takes part in monthly development programme for the Groups top leaders which aims to online meetings to share knowledge, experience and insights in order build strategic leadership capability.
It is sponsored by the Executive to leverage expertise and best practice.
Team who are actively involved in the programme and sponsor projects.
Participants work in global teams on strategically important business In 2011, in response to customer and partner demand, the Group challenges, researching the issues and recommending a solution.
created a Global eBusiness Centre of Excellence.
This team, having invested in additional capacity and capability, is now delivering market The Leadership Development Programme, which won the leading online capabilities across the Group.
This approach has allowed Chartered Institute of Personnel Development CIPD award for the Group to start standardising and leveraging our eBusiness the Organisational Learning category, aims to develop business, proposition globally: for example, a preferred website analytics tool is growth and people leadership skills in those with the potential to now deployed in 22 of our worldwide businesses and the skills to design move into a country or regional senior management role.
It is a nine and build market leading websites are now retained in-house.
The team month programme consisting of three modules, designed to build works across all 32 countries and in 2012 delivered over 70 eBusiness capability in core areas of leadership.
This incorporates a strategic projects in conjunction with local businesses.
To ensure continued project based on current business challenges.
capability build and the sharing of skills and expertise, there is a digital training academy to further develop our eBusiness community.
The Fast Track programme is aimed at growing emerging leadership talent employees who are in their second or third role after Underpinning all of these development opportunities is the Groups graduating who have already demonstrated high performance and online Learning Zone that was introduced in 2010 and offers a broad leadership ability.
The programme is structured to equip the Groups range of training and development options.
Learning Zone is available future leaders with the commercial understanding and leadership in 13 languages, across 28 countries and is now accessible to over capabilities they will need to thrive: exposing them to global 22,000 employees worldwide.
There are over 2,000 learning resources networking opportunities, in-depth self-analysis and performance available as well as thousands of e-books and audio books that can coaching to encourage rapid career development.
be downloaded to a computer, mobile device or Kindle.
To further encourage global collaboration, learning and sharing of ideas, use is In addition to significant investment in development programmes, made of Webex, Webinar and Connect forums.
the Group has robust talent and performance management processes in place to ensure that continual focus on the development of people and acquisition of talent in order to ensure the future proofing of the 48 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Group is committed to having an engaged and motivated workforce, The Business Review has been prepared to the best of the Directors believing that this has a direct impact on customers experience and knowledge in order to provide the Companys shareholders with a fair overall long-term success.
Therefore every September the Group runs a review of the development and performance of the Company and the global engagement survey of employees using the Gallup Q12 questions, Group as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and which measure the key drivers of engagement.
The survey is completed uncertainties which may affect the Group.
It may not be relied upon for by circa three million people globally and is open to all employees.
Group has amongst the highest participation of any client Gallup works with and in 2012, saw its highest participation ever, with 94% of Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company employees completing the survey.
and its subsidiaries and its risk management policies is disclosed in the Business Review on pages 8 to 33, in the Significant Accounting Since 2008, significant progress has been made on improving employee Policies on pages 80 to 87.
Risk Management on pages 26 to 29 and engagement.
In 2012, a Grand Mean score of 4.29 out of a maximum note 12. score of 5 was achieved, which places the Group in Gallups top decile for companies with over 1,000 employees.
The Group has also won a Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
5 2 also requires the Annual range of awards in 2012 for our engagement programme including: the Report to include a management report.
The information that fulfils Gallup Global Workplace Award, presented to the worlds most this requirement can be found in the Business Review on pages 8 to 33 engaged and productive organisations: 6th in the Sunday Times Best and the Directors and Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 to 54.
Big Companies to Work For and Overall Winner and Employee Engagement category winner at the prestigious 2012 CIPD People Events after the reporting period Management Awards.
No material events have occurred since 31 December 2012.
The Group has a long-standing philosophy of encouraging employee Dividends share ownership, operating two HMRC-recognised share schemes: The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.90p per ordinary share Sharebuild and Sharesave.
Details of the Executive Directors interests to be paid on 24 May 2013 to holders of ordinary shares on the register in Sharesave and Sharebuild are noted on pages 69 and 71.
Currently, at the close of business on 5 April 2013, subject to ordinary shareholder a total of 6,543 employees from across the Group participate in approval.
This, together with the interim dividend of 3.41p per ordinary Sharesave, contributing an average of 73.94 per month for the three share, will make a total dividend for the year of 7.31p per ordinary share.
year savings plan and an average of 61.17 for the five year savings plan.
Sharebuild is offered to UK employees only and currently 34% The preference dividend at the rate of 3.6875% for the period from of those eligible to join the plan participate in it, contributing an average 1 October 2012 to 31 March 2013 will be paid on 2 April 2013 to of 73.97 per month.
holders of preference shares on the register at the close of business on 1 March 2013.
The Group also encourages employees and their families to acquire products at a discounted rate.
The Staff Saver Scheme in the UK Environmental programme currently has approximately 11,500 Staff Saver policies in force.
Details of our environmental programme can be found on pages 32 Furthermore, the UK operates a flexible benefits scheme which to 33 of the Business Review.
The 2013 Corporate Responsibility provides employees with additional opportunities to tailor their Report will be published in May 2013 and will be available on the benefits package to meet individual circumstances.
Over 50% of Groups website at www.
employees elected to participate in the scheme in 2012.
Share capital Employees are kept well informed of the overall performance and Details of the Companys share capital, together with details of the objectives of the Group.
Communications are regularly provided movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are through face to face meetings and presentations, by email, intranet shown in note 18.
The Company has two classes of shares: ordinary articles and staff publications.
Key messages from the biannual Group shares of 27.5p each and preference shares of 1 each.
Each ordinary Leaders Conferences are disseminated to teams by the Group Chief share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company Executive via Webex and through local management.
and no right to fixed income.
The rights attaching to the preference shares are detailed in note 18.
As at 31 December 2012, the ordinary The Group actively encourages employees to become involved in shares and the preference shares represented 96.6 % and 3.4 % supporting their local communities.
Further details are provided respectively of the total issued share capital.
Directors are still limited in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 30 to 33. as to the number of shares they can allot save in respect of employee share schemes.
The current authority allows Directors to allot Business review and management report securities up to a nominal amount of 323,795,833 and renewal of the Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors to Directors authority to allot shares will be sought at the 2013 AGM.
present a business review in this report.
The information that fulfils During 2012, the Directors exercised their authority to allot in respect this requirement can be found on pages 8 to 33, and is incorporated of employee share schemes and the scrip dividend scheme.
by reference into this report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 49 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the Charitable and political donations transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions The Company and its subsidiaries worldwide made charitable donations of the Articles and legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any of 1.6m 2011: 2.6m during the year, of which 0.5m 2011: 0.7m agreements between the Companys shareholders that may result related to donations made to UK based charities.
The Groups in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Further Community and Charitable policy prohibits political donations.
information on the rights attaching to the shares can be found in note 18 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
The Company may Directors conflicts of interest purchase any of its own shares including any redeemable shares.
An Each Director is required to notify the Group General Counsel and authority from ordinary shareholders for the Company to purchase up Group Company Secretary when a conflict of interest arises and the to 353,231,818 of its own ordinary shares representing 10% of its issued Board reviews Directors conflicts of interest annually.
Under the share capital as at 15 March 2012 remained in force at 31 December 2012.
Articles, the Board may authorise any conflict of interest.
Any Director who has declared a conflict shall not count towards the quorum or vote The Company operates three employee benefit trusts to hold ordinary on any resolution to authorise the conflict of interest and, at the Boards shares in the Company which are used to satisfy grants under the discretion, may be excluded from any meeting at which the conflict is Groups share incentive schemes and Capita Trustees Limited is the under consideration.
Where a conflict of interest is authorised, the current Trustee of each trust.
In addition, a Share Incentive Plan Board may impose such restrictions on the conflicted Director as they Sharebuild Trust is operated of which Capita IRG Trustees is the deem appropriate, such as excluding the Director from receipt of Trustee.
The Trustees may vote in respect of any shares held in the information or discussions.
Trusts but has no obligation to do so and, in respect of the Royal & Sun Alliance ESOP Trust No.
3, the Trustee may have regard to the financial None of the Directors had any interest in any other contract with the interests of the beneficiaries in exercising its voting rights over the Company or any of its subsidiaries during 2012, save as disclosed in the Companys shares.
Supplier payment policy The Board confirms that it has reviewed the schedule of Directors It is the Groups policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions in conflicts of interest during the year and that the procedure in place advance with its suppliers and to make payment in accordance with operated effectively in 2012. those terms and conditions, provided the supplier has complied with them.
In most cases, agreements for the supply of goods or services are Articles of Association made under standard terms of contract that lay down payment terms.
The Companys Articles may be amended by special resolution of the In the UK, these are available on request from UK Strategic Sourcing, Companys ordinary shareholders.
The current Articles were adopted Leadenhall Court, 1 Leadenhall Street, London EC3V 1PP.
at the 2010 AGM and are available on the Companys website at www.
The Companys outstanding indebtedness to trade creditors on 31 December 2012 amounted to 2.45m, corresponding Borrowing powers to 14 days payment when averaged over the year.
The Articles restrict the borrowings of the Company so that the aggregate amount, for the time being, remaining borrowed by the Related party transactions Group is not, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution Related party transactions are set out in note 32. of the Company, more than one and a half times the aggregate of: r The amount paid up on the issued share capital of the Company Essential contracts and change of control r The total of the capital and revenue reserves of the Group subject The Company does not consider that it, or any of its subsidiaries, has to certain adjustments.
any contractual or other arrangements that are essential to the business of the Group that are required to be disclosed pursuant to section 417 Directors indemnity of the Companies Act 2006.
Article 140 of the Articles provides that, among other things and insofar as permitted by law, the Company may indemnify its Directors against In the event of a change of control, agreements may require any liability and may purchase and maintain insurance against any liability.
consideration to determine the impact of any change of control clauses and the Company will take appropriate action to mitigate any risk The Company has granted an indemnity to each of the Directors arising from these events should they occur.
pursuant to the power conferred by Article 140.
The indemnities granted constitute qualifying third party indemnity provisions as Under the Companys 500m five year senior committed debt facility, defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board if a change of control occurs, if the majority of lenders require, the believes that it promotes the success of the Company to provide facility can be cancelled with immediate effect and all outstanding loans, this indemnity to its Directors in order to ensure that the Group together with accrued interest, become due and payable.
attracts and retains high calibre Directors through competitive terms of employment in line with market standards.
50 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Directors and Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries also have the benefit of insurance which provides suitable cover in respect of legal actions brought against them.
In addition, the Company has indemnified the Directors of SAL Pension Fund Limited, a majority owned subsidiary of the Group, in relation to its role as Trustee of an occupational pension scheme.
This indemnity constitutes a qualifying indemnity provision under section 235 of the Companies Act 2006.
Directors responsibility statement The Directors responsibility statement appears on page 74 and is incorporated by reference into this Report.
By order of the Board Derek Walsh Group General Counsel and Group Company Secretary 19 February 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 51 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED GROUP AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 2012 KEY ACTIVITIES r Reviewing all results announcements and the 2011 Annual Report This report sets out the membership and responsibilities and Accounts with particular emphasis on their fair presentation, of the Group Audit Committee and its key activities in the reasonableness of judgements made, valuation of assets and 2012.
As in previous years, the Committee has reviewed liability balances and the appropriateness of significant accounting the Groups financial reporting, internal control and risk policies used in their preparation together with the application management systems and the independence and of those policies effectiveness of the external auditor.
In order to assist r Reviewing the Financial Control Framework on a quarterly basis the Committee in discharging its responsibilities, regular r Reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls and risk reports are received from the Group CFO, the management process Disclosure Committee, the Group Chief Actuary, r Reviewing regular reports from the Group CFO, Disclosure regional audit or management control committees, the Committee, the Group Chief Actuary, regional audit or external auditor, the Group Chief Auditor and Regulatory management control committees, the external auditor, the Risk & Compliance.
The Committee, on behalf of the Group Chief Auditor and Regulatory Risk & Compliance Board, also led the tender process for the appointment of r Approving non-audit services provided by the external auditor a new external auditor for 2013, following the impending r Evaluating the external auditors performance appointment of Deloitte LLP to undertake additional r Approving the 2013 Group Internal Audit Plan consultancy work in Scandinavia on our behalf.
The r Approving the 2013 Regulatory Risk & Compliance Plan Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG r Assessing the independence of the external auditor and overseeing LLP be appointed as the external auditor, which the the process for tendering the appointment of the Groups Auditor.
Board has accepted for submission to shareholders Membership Alastair Barbour, FCA The GAC is comprised solely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman, Group Audit Committee As requested by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board is satisfied that all of the members have recent and relevant financial This report should be read in conjunction with and is incorporated by experience.
The Group Chief Executive, Group CFO, Group General reference into the Directors and Corporate Governance Report.
Counsel and Group Company Secretary, Group Chief Auditor, Group Head of Regulatory Risk & Compliance and representatives of the external auditor are regular attendees by invitation.
The Chairman and other GROUP AUDIT COMMITTEE members of executive management are also invited to attend from time to time.
Membership and attendance at 2012 meetings 1 Alastair Barbour Chairman 5 5 Terms of Reference Noel Harwerth 4 5 The terms of reference set out the authority of the Committee to carry 2 Edward Lea 5 5 out its duties.
The Committee reviewed its terms of reference during the period and these are available on the Companys website at Johanna Waterous 4 5 www.
Alastair Barbour became Chairman of the Committee on 1 June 2012.
Edward Lea resigned as Chairman of the Committee on 1 June 2012 and continues The outcomes of meetings are reported to the Board and the to serve as a Committee member.
Board receives the minutes of all the GAC meetings.
The GAC has PRINCIPAL DUTIES OF THE GROUP AUDIT COMMITTEE GAC unrestricted access to Company documents and information, as well r To coordinate and oversee the integrity of the financial as to employees of the Company and external professional advisers.
reporting process Regular reports are received and reviewed by the GAC from the r To monitor compliance with regulations, industry codes Disclosure Committee and regional audit or management control and legal requirements which affect the Groups operations committees and in relation to the Financial Control Framework and r To provide assurance on the effectiveness of the Groups Enterprise Risk Management.
The GAC members meet privately at financial and regulatory risk management systems the start of each scheduled meeting to discuss issues to be raised with r To oversee the internal audit function management in the meeting.
The GAC holds regular meetings with the r To manage the effectiveness of the Groups systems Group Chief Auditor, the Group Head of Regulatory Risk & Compliance of internal controls and the external auditor without any other members of management r To review the Groups financial performance being present to allow issues to be raised.
r To review and monitor the independence and performance of the external auditor and develop policy in relation to the To assist the GAC with carrying out its duties, responsibility for identifying provision of non-audit services.
and considering disclosure matters in connection with the preparation of all market releases containing material financial information has been 52 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
