Corporate governance report External audit tender Board attendance in 2012 In light of changing governance best During the year there were five scheduled practice, we decided to put the external and two ad hoc board meetings.
The Audit and Risk Committee led the process and more Details of attendance at each of the Board information can be found in its report meetings are set out below: onpages 5457.
Andrew Beeson, Chairman 7 7 Executive Directors Governance Framework Michael Dobson 7 7 This is my first report as Chairman Schroders Corporate Governance Philip Mallinckrodt 7 7 having taken over from Michael Miles Guidelines set out the expectations Kevin Parry 7 7 in May 2012.
We have a robust andresponsibilities of the Board, its Massimo Tosato 7 7 governance framework and our Committees and the Directors.
With Non-executive Directors actions in 2012 demonstrate our continuing change in governance best Ashley Almanza 7 7 commitment to maintaining and, practice, the Guidelines and the Groups Luc Bertrand 6 7 where appropriate, enhancing that other core governance documents, Robin Buchanan 7 7 framework for the long-term stability including the Schedule of Matters Lord Howard 7 7 and success of the Group.
Reserved to the Board, and the terms Merlyn Lowther 7 7 of reference of the Board Committees, Nichola Pease 3 3 have either been reviewed during the Bruno Schroder 6 7 As the UKs largest listed asset year or are under review, and the current Other Directors who served during the year management company, Schroders is versions are available on our website Alan Brown 2 2 committed to high standards of corporate at www.
The Board is responsible for the oversight of the sound management With numerous consultations from UK of the Company and ensuring that high Government departments and global standards are met throughout the regulators, and the introduction of new business.
We have considered the revised legislation and regulation across our UK Corporate Governance Code and, operations, we can expect the regulatory where appropriate, adopted some of and governance environment to continue the new provisions early.
Board succession and effectiveness An effective Board is essential for every Andrew Beeson company and ensuring we have the right Chairman people on our Board is important.
Board succession was a key focus in 2012 with the appointment of Nichola Pease and planning for the succession of Kevin Parry who, as we announced in November 2012, will step down as Chief Financial officer in May 2013.
It is also important to ensure that the Board, its Committees and individual Directors continue to perform effectively.
Aswe said Changes to the Corporate Governance report in the 2011 Annual Report, we have used an external facilitator to undertake the This report is intended to give shareholders Responsibilities of the Board and annual Board evaluation process.
More a clear and comprehensive picture of the its Committees page 49 : information on this process can be found Groups governance arrangements and how Board focus during 2012, Board on page 51. they operated during the year.
Effectiveness and Diversity page 50 : Nominations and Audit and Risk In addition, from the 2013 Annual General We have made changes to the structure and Committee Reports pages 52 to 57 : Meeting we have decided that all Directors layout of our Corporate Governance report Compliance with the UK Corporate will stand for annual re-election see this year to improve transparency and provide Governance Code pages 58 to 60 : and page 50. additional information.
The report structure Ownership, capital structure and is as follows: voting rights page 61.
48 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Responsibilities of the Board with the Companys Articles of Association.
Board Committees and delegating authority and its Committees The Articles of Association may be to manage the business to the Chief The diagram below illustrates the Groups amended by special resolution of Executive within the constraints set by the core governance framework, how authority Shareholders, unless specified to the Board.
The principal Board Committees is delegated from the Board and how contrary in them.
The Board is accountable comprise the Nominations Committee, independent oversight at Board level to shareholders for the creation and delivery the Audit and Risk Committee and the is organised.
of strong, sustainable financial performance Remuneration Committee.
The Board The Board is authorised to manage the achieves this through its own decisionReports from each of these Committees business of the Company in accordance making, by delegating responsibilities to follow.
Governance Framework Board Executive Committees Executive staff Accountable to Independent oversight shareholders for Direct access to the Audit the creation and and Risk Committee delivery of strong, sustainable The Board Committees performance are composed entirely and long-term shareholder value of non-executive Directors.
Chief Executive Nominations Remuneration Audit and Risk Committee Committee Committee Responsible for Responsible for Responsible for Responsible for the management reviewing and reviewing and overseeing financial of the business recommending recommending reporting, risk and the strategic changes to the the remuneration management and development of composition of strategy for the Group internal controls the Group the Board and and for setting the of the Group its Committees remuneration of the executive Directors Group Management Chief Financial General Counsel Committee officer Assists the Chief Responsible for Responsible for the Executive in financial management, Group's Compliance, discharging his capital management, Legal and Company responsibilities.
oversight of risk and Secretariat functions Functional systems of internal responsibilities controls for the Group delegated to individual members.
Group Capital Group Risk Group Head Group Head of Global Head of Committee Committee of Risk Internal Audit Compliance Assists the Chief Assists the Chief Identies and quanties Provides independent, Assists the General Financial officer Financial officer risks before and after objective assurance Counsel in ensuring in the deployment in discharging his mitigation to management compliance with of operational and responsibilities and to the Audit regulatory requirements investment capital in respect of risk and Risk Committee and relationships with and controls within the in respect of risk regulatory authorities Group management, controls and governance processes Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49 Corporate governance report continued Board focus during 2012 There were five scheduled and two ad hoc During the year the Board also focused on: Board meetings held during 2012.
At each Corporate Development the acquisition of ofthe scheduled Board meetings, the Board 25 per cent.
of the share capital of Axis Asset considered reports from the Chief Executive Management Company, the Indian asset on the performance of the business, including management business of Axis Bank Limited, the core areas of Investment, Distribution, and the acquisition of STW Fixed Income Private Banking and Infrastructure, and the Management, a value-orientated, US Chief Financial Ofcers review of the Groups investment grade xed income manager: financial results, including the Groups The introduction of a transformational IT investment capital and liquidity.
platform, in support of our fund managers: Risk matters including the ICAAP: An important element of the Boards focus Governance and regulatory developments: during theyear was the Group strategic review.
The external audit tender: and More information on this can be found in Board effectiveness see below.
Responsibilities of the Group Diversity Management Committee The Board recognises the importance The Chief Executive delegates specic of diversity and that it is a much wider responsibilities to members of the senior issue than gender.
The Board agrees that management team who comprise the its members should collectively possess Group Management Committee GMC.
the broad range of skills, expertise and They manage the day-to-day operations of industry knowledge, and business and the Group and support the Chief Executive other experience necessary for the effective in the delivery of his and the Boards oversight of the Groups business.
The GMC meets fortnightly and The Board also believes in the value is chaired by the Chief Executive.
The and importance of diversity throughout members and their areas of responsibility the Group, but does not consider it are shown on pages 46 and 47. appropriate or in the interests of the Company or its shareholders to set Annual re-election of Directors prescriptive, quantitative diversity targets.
Except in certain specic circumstances, Directors have not previously been required Fundamental to increasing diversity to stand for re-election annually.
The Board isthedevelopment of a pipeline of has kept this under review and has decided talentedand diverse employees within that, in light of developing practice, from the the business which requires a proactive 2013 Annual General Meeting all Directors, and coordinated approach.
More with the exception of Kevin Parry, will stand information on our approach to diversity for annual re-election.
Only those Directors can be found on page 40 in the corporate expected to serve until the next Annual responsibility section.
General Meeting will stand for re-election and therefore Kevin Parry will not be required to stand.
Board Effectiveness The Board is committed to ensuring it operates effectively.
Three important elements which support Board effectiveness are composition, development which includes induction training and ongoing brieng sessions and evaluation.
Details of the Boards succession arrangements are set out in the Nominations Committee report on page 52.
Details of development and evaluation are set out opposite.
50 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Induction training New Directors receive a personalised induction the Chief Executive.
The programme involved programme to familiarise them with their duties meeting Board members and senior members and the Groups businesses, operations, risks of the management team.
In addition, Ms and governance arrangements.
Pease received information on the Groups history, strategy and any material projects The Company Secretary developed an under consideration or which had been induction programme for Nichola Pease on considered recently.
Ms Pease provided joining the Board.
This was developed in positive feedback on her induction through consultation with Ms Pease, the Chairman and the external evaluation process.
Brieng sessions for Board members Brieng sessions are held to inform Directors of or external advisers, as appropriate.
Directors developments in the business and the asset also attended numerous external courses management industry, and other external relevant to their responsibilities.
Brieng factors, for example, changes to regulation or sessions held in 2012 included Quantitative accounting practices.
All Directors are asked Equity Products, and our businesses in Latin to identify any specic development needs.
The sessions are delivered by management Board Evaluation An external consultant, Independent Board reports on their respective Committees.
Evaluation, was appointed to facilitate the 2012 The Chairman received feedback on individual Board evaluation process following a formal Directors which will be discussed with them request for proposal and interview selection in one-to-one meetings.
Luc Bertrand, as process coordinated by the Company Senior Independent Director, received a report Secretary.
Independent Board Evaluation has on the evaluation of the Chairman which he no connection with Schroders or any member discussed with the non-executive Directors of Schroders management and is considered and subsequently with the Chairman.
The final to be independent of the Company.
This was report will be shared with the whole Board.
a key factor in the appointment process.
The evaluation has involved attendance at Board, The Board evaluation report contained a Audit and Risk Committee and Remuneration detailed review of the Boards performance Committee meetings together with interviews in key areas such as strategy, succession with all Board members, the Company planning, governance and risk management.
Secretary and the General Counsel.
Areas of particular strength were the stability of the Board, accountability to shareholders The 2012 evaluation focusedonsupporting and governance and compliance the Chairman in identifying improvement arrangements.
The areas of focus for the opportunities and how they might be Chairman in 2013 are the assessment of the implemented.
It encompassed evaluation Boards skills to support the Groups strategy, of the Board, the Board Committees, the as set out on page 16: creating opportunities Chairman and the Directors.
outside of Board meetings for more unstructured discussions: and enhancing The overall findings of the evaluation were the discussion of the Groups strategy through presented to the non-executive Directors, more analysis of the external landscape.
and the Chairmen of the Remuneration and The Chairman is developing an action plan Audit and Risk Committees received specic which will be discussed with the Board.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51 Nominations Committee report Committee attendance in 2012 Activities During the year there were four meetings.
The key areas of the Committees work in 2012 are summarised below: Details of attendance at the Committee Succession planning for Merlyn Lowther meetings are setout below: and the appointment of a new non-executive Director: Andrew Beeson 4 4 Succession planning for Kevin Parry Ashley Almanza 4 4 as Chief Financial officer: and Luc Bertrand 2 4 Composition of the Boards Committees, Robin Buchanan 4 4 To ensure that the Board and its notably the identication of a new Lord Howard 4 4 Committees have the appropriate Chairman of the Board Audit and Merlyn Lowther 4 4 balance of skills, experience and Risk Committee.
Nichola Pease 1 1 independence to challenge Bruno Schroder 4 4 management constructively and The Nominations Committee considers Other Directors who served during the year operate effectively, our focus has diversity, including the balance of skills, Michael Miles 3 3 been on the evaluation of the Boards experience, gender and nationality, composition and succession amongst many other factors when The Chief Executive is usually invited arrangements.
This includes the reviewing the appointment of new to attend Committee meetings.
diversity of the Board and a desire Directors.
The Boards policy on diversity to have a range of views underpinning is set out on page 50 and more information Responsibilities the Boards discussions.
on the Groups approach to diversity The role of the Committee is to make in the wider business is set on page 40. recommendations to the Board in order to ensure that the composition of the The report outlines the work of the Board and its Committees is appropriate Committee and changes made to the and to ensure appropriate succession Boards composition during the year.
Nichola Pease is already making a valuable contribution to our discussions and her experience within the asset management The key areas of the Committees work cover: industry has further strengthened the Board.
Reviewing the size and composition Identifying and recommending for the of the Board and its Committees: approval of the Board, potential candidates The Committee, and particularly I as Board succession planning: to ll Board and Committees vacancies: Chairman, welcome the findings of the Making recommendations to the Board with Developing and recommending appropriate externally facilitated Board evaluation respect to the role, capabilities and time criteria for Director independence: process in respect of the composition of commitment for each appointment, giving Reviewing the terms of appointment the Board, its Committees and our due consideration to the balance of skills, for non-executive Directors: and activities.
We will look to build on the experience and knowledge on the Board Conducting an annual review of the findings of the evaluation in 2013. and the benets of diversity: Committees performance.
The procedure for the appointment of new Directors: Andrew Beeson Chairman of the Nominations Committee 52 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance The Committees work in recommending The Board believes his experience my appointment as Chairman was carried positions him well for the role of Chief out in 2011.
This, together with other Financial OfceratSchroders.
The intention changes to the Board subsequent to to appoint Mr Keers complies with our my appointment, were set out in the 2011 policy on the appointment of employees Annual Report and took effect from from the Groups external auditors PwC theconclusion of the 2012 Annual and relevant professional rules.
The use of anexternal recruitment Nichola Pease was appointed as a consultant or openadvertising was not non-executive Director in September considered appropriate.
Prior to Ms Peases appointment, unanimous in accepting the Committees the Committee reviewed the composition recommendation to appoint Mr Keers.
of the Board and its Committees and developed the criteria for the appointment.
The Committee also reviewed the Ms Pease was recommended to the Directors standing for election or reCommittee without using the services election at the Annual General Meeting, of an external search consultant.
The taking into account their effectiveness, Committees recommendation to the commitment and any conicts of Board to appoint Ms Pease was made interest.
The Committee also reviewed following a thorough interview process.
the independence of the non-executive Ms Pease was interviewed by the Directors and concluded that all were Chairman, all members of the Committee independent other than Bruno Schroder.
All Directors standing for election or re-election are recommended by the Merlyn Lowther joined the Board in 2004.
Having served for nine years she will stand down as a Director and Chairman Support of the Audit and Risk Committee at the The Committee received information conclusion of the 2013 Annual General and support from management during Meeting.
Ashley Almanza will become the year to enable it to carry out its duties Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and responsibilities effectively.
The upon Mrs Lowthers retirement and Committee has the right to appoint Ms Pease will join the Committee.
external advisers, although none were used during the year.
In November 2012, the Company announced that Kevin Parry would step down as Chief Financial officer and Andrew Beeson as a Director of the Company in May Chairman of the Nominations Committee 2013.
Richard Keers was identied 6 March 2013 as Mr Parrys successor.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53 Audit and Risk Committee report Parry and his team for the significant Committees attendance in 2012 support provided throughout.
During the year there were four scheduled meetings and four ad hoc meetings.
The tender process was extremely competitive and tightly contested, and Details of the attendance at Committee is described on page 55.
The Committee meetings areset out below: had anticipated recommending KPMG Merlyn Lowther 8 8 as external auditor for the Group with Ashley Almanza 8 8 respect to the 2013 audit.
KPMG already Robin Buchanan 6 8 The Committee put our external provided a number of services to the Group Lord Howard 6 7 audit out to tender during 2012 and since the conclusion of the tender Other Directors who served during the year and I should like to extend my process KPMG advised the Company that Andrew Beeson 1 1 thanks to all the rms who it did not meet the regulatory requirements participated in the process.
for independence for all relevant Group companies.
Independence is a prerequisite for any audit appointment and At the invitation of the Chairman, the Chief The economic and political uncertainties consequently the Board is proposing to Executive, the Chief Financial officer and seen in 2011, particularly in respect of re-appoint  Bruno Schroder attended most meetings theEurozone, continued well into 2012.
PwC and a resolution regarding this during the year.
Other regular attendees Regulatory obligations on the asset appointment will be put to shareholders who advised or reported to the Committee management industry continued to at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
were the Head of Financial Reporting, the develop, notably with the impending Global Head of Compliance, the Group changes to the Financial Services I will stand down from the Board at the Head of Risk, the Group Head of Internal Authority together with a broader focus conclusion of the Annual General Meeting Audit and the General Counsel.
on introducing regulation since the financial and Ashley Almanza will become Chairman crisis.
These external pressures were of the Committee.
He is a chartered Other members of senior management considered in detail during the year and accountant and was Chief Financial officer were also invited to attend as appropriate.
they were also factors taken into account of BG Group until March 2011.
The Board Representatives from the Groups auditor, when considering the key risks affecting considers that he has the recent and PwC, attended all of the Committees the Group.
The key risks and mitigations relevant financial experience appropriate scheduled meetings.
are set out on pages 30 to 37. for this appointment.
Nichola Pease will also join the Committee in May 2013.
I Private meetings As part of the Boards strategic review believe Ashley will make an excellent During 2012, two private meetings were the Committee also considered the risks Chairman of the Committee and is well held with PwC without management that could impact the strategy or the qualied to lead it during the next phase present.
Private meetings were Groups business model.
also held with the Chief Financial officer and the heads of the Compliance, Risk During the year we put our external audit and Internal Audit functions.
The Committee led the Merlyn Lowther meetings provided an opportunity for process and I would like to thank Kevin Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee matters to be raised condentially.
The key areas of the Committees work cover: Audit and operational business Forward-looking emerging as usual risks and thematic risks Monitoring the content and integrity Considering emerging and thematic of financial reporting: risks which may have a material impact Reviewing the appropriateness on the Groups operations in the future.
of accounting judgements: Reviewing the Groups risk and control framework: Reviewing the Groups regulatory reporting procedures and relationships with regulators: Reviewing the external auditors: Recommending to the Board the appointment of external auditors: and Reviewing the Groups internal audit function.
54 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Responsibilities developments, estimates and policies.
relative complexity and geographical The Committee seeks to encourage It also received reports setting out the spread, the two rms outside the Big Four and safeguard high standards of integrity, responsibilities for particular areas of were not invited to participate and the financial reporting, risk management reporting.
The Committee also considered request for proposal was limited to those and internal controls.
Its activities cover reports from PwC providing an assessment global providers with the necessary audit and operational business as usual of the financial reporting, an audit opinion resources to audit a diverse global Group.
risks as well as more forward-looking on the Annual Report and Accounts and an emergingand thematic risks.
independent report on the half-year results.
External auditors non-audit services The Committee is responsible for Activities External audit maintaining a policy on the engagement The principal areas of the Committees In the 2011 Annual Report we reported of the external audit rm to provide work in 2012 are summarised below.
that the Committee would review the non-audit services.
This policy precludes credentials of other providers of external the provision of non-audit services that Financial reporting audit services.
A wide-ranging request might lead to a conict of interest.
The The Committee reviewed the 2012 half-year for information RFI was issued not only to policy also has strict rules in relation results and the Annual Report and the Big Four audit rms PwC, KPMG, to the approval of contracts for non-audit Accounts, prior to recommending them to Ernst & Young, and Deloitte, but also to services which do not present a possible the Board for approval.
The Committees two rms in the next tier.
This covered their conict of interest.
All contracts for reviews included the Groups exposure capability to conduct the audit and other non-audit services must be notied to the to country and currency risk, particularly non-audit services provided by accounting Head of Financial Reporting and contracts in relation to developments within the rms to the Group.
In July, the Committee valued in excess of 25,000 require prior Eurozone, and the key areas of judgement decided, in light of developing EU regulation approval.
During the year, the Committee in the financial statements.
Among the key and UK market practice and the revised the policy to require that where areas of judgement were provisioning and information gleaned from responses to the non-audit fees were expected to breach risk disclosures.
To assist its reviews of the RFI, that it would be appropriate to certain thresholds in proportion to the statements, it received reports prepared by conduct a tender exercise for the external statutory audit fee, the Committee must Group Finance addressing presentational audit.
Schroders had not previously put its approve in advance any further non-audit and judgemental issues, accounting audit out to tender.
Due to the Groups fee expenditure.
External Audit Tender Process In September 2012, a request for proposal liaison with and reliance upon Internal All four rms met the criteria for appointment: RFP was issued to provide the following Audit, timely resolution of audit issues the Committee concluded, however, that two external audit and audit-related services: and transition experience: rms, PwC and KPMG, demonstrated better The audit of Schroders parent Audit quality including quality assurance, the resource, expertise, quality control and Company, the Group accounts audit effectiveness, audit reporting, integrity, audit approach to deliver a high-quality audit and those of certain subsidiaries: independence, objectivity, process service to Schroders.
To report, in the Annual Report, whether improvement and added value: certain remuneration and governance Resourcing and engagement team including As part of the process to confirm the disclosures were in accordance with quality of proposed audit team, skills and independence of the audit rm prior to making applicable legislation and rules regulations: personal qualities of audit partners and a recommendation to shareholders, KPMG To review the interim financial statements: leadership, team structure, resourcing model advised the Company that it did not meet the Regulatory reporting in various locations: and succession, responsiveness: and regulatory requirements for independence for Client asset reporting to the FSA or its Fees and terms.
As Schroders successor bodies: and incumbent auditor, PwC had maintained its Controls reporting in various locations.
The process comprised three stages: independence throughout the process.
28 interviews for each rm with Schroders The four rms participating in the tender personnel including the Chairman, Executive Independence is a pre-requisite for an audit process were required to submit their Directors, Audit and Risk Committee appointment and therefore the Committee proposals against the following criteria: members and key members of management has recommended that the Board propose Organisation and capability including the both UK and globally : to shareholders that PwC be re-appointed rms global coverage, experience, scope W ritten proposals: and as the Companys auditors for the 2013 audit.
of service, technical expertise and support, A presentation to the Committee and the culture and independence assurance: Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Audit approach and delivery including Financial officer, Bruno Schroder, the General knowledge of the business, audit planning Counsel, the Head of Financial Reporting and process, quality of accounting judgements, the Company Secretary.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55 Audit and Risk Committee report continued The Committee reviewed the fees paid to Risk management and internal controls The Compliance reports similarly PwC against compliance with the Groups On behalf of the Board, the Committee highlighted compliance matters and issues policy for procuring non-audit work.
During carried out the annual assessment of the requiring rectification, together with the year the total fees paid to PwC effectiveness of internal controls during international developments in the regulatory amounted to: 2012, including those related to the environment in which the Group operates.
In undertaking 2012 2011 its assessment, the Committee considered The Risk reports set out changes in the m m a number of reports on presentational level or nature of the risks faced by the Audit 2.7 2.9 and judgemental issues, accounting Group, developments in risk management Audit-related 0.3 0.4 developments and policies, together with and significant errors and omissions.
Non-audit related quarterly reports from the Group Heads Separate reports allowed the Committee Assurance services 0.3 0.2 of Compliance, Risk, Internal Audit and the to consider the most significant risks faced Tax advisory services 0.6 0.5 General Counsel and reports on specic by the Group and assessments of risk Tax compliance services 0.5 0.4 issues received during the year.
tolerance, as well as the construction, Other non-audit services 1.5 0.3 output and stress testing of the ICAAP.
Total non-audit related 2.9 1.4 As part of its review of the financial The Pillar 3 disclosures of the ICAAP, Total 5.9 4.7 statements, the Committee considered which are available on our website at Percentage of audit key financial reporting risks arising from www.
com ir, were also reviewed and audit-related fees to total fees 51% 70% changes to the business and accounting by the Committee.
It also received a report from The Committee also receives six-monthly the Head of Financial Reporting conrming Key topics discussed by the Committee reports on the non-audit services provided the operation of the controls over the included the impact of the Retail and the auditors are required to confirm financial reporting process including Distribution Review, the introduction the Groups consolidated accounts.
of the Investment PlatformProgramme that prior to undertaking any non-audit This outlined the financial reporting control and whistle-blowing procedures.
The service they have completed their own framework, including the operation of a most significant developments in the independence conrmation processes Group-wide general ledger, consolidation risk prole of the business are set out which are approved by the senior statutory system and preventative and detective on pages 36 and 37. auditor.
During the year, PwC were controls, which include automated system appointed for two significant non-audit controls on high-volume, low-value The Committee also received reports from services.
There was a review of the transactions.
Key controls in Finance are PwC and noted the work undertaken to Groups transfer pricing arrangements for tested regularly by Internal Audit and are test specic controls of a number of major compliance with best practice and a review, subject to external audit.
subsidiaries as part of the internal controls including of internal controls, relating to an assessment work.
PwC provided an investment in mainly unlisted securities for The Internal Audit reports described independent opinion on the internal certain Private Banking clients.
These progress against the rolling plan of controls of certain subsidiaries.
appointments were determined to be in audits approved by the Committee, any the best interests of shareholders because significant adverse findings from audits Lessons learned from operational events the work required specialist regulatory and their subsequent remediation, and together with the ongoing development of knowledge and benefited from pre-existing recommendations to improve the control the control functions and general market knowledge of the Groups practices.
During the year, management practice means there are often areas for Committee was satisfied that PwC received proposed, and the Committee approved, development which the Committee adequate compensation to undertake its an independent review of the Internal Audit monitors through specic reports and obligations thoroughly and that the quantity function which reported it to be operating periodic updates against a targeted and type of non-audit work undertaken did at a high standard.
56 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance The Committee also focused onspecic The Committees terms of reference were control recommendations within Private last updated in March 2012 and are Banking and received reportsand available at www.
considered recommendations to strengthen the investment management process, The Committees performance is evaluated compliance activities particularly in respect annually.
The findings of the externally of monitoring and other control activities facilitated review in respect of 2012 were arising from mandate compliance reviews satisfactory and were discussed by the with respect to certain client investments Committee and with the Chairman of in mainly unlisted securities.
of the action taken by management and through ongoing development of risk In light of its work, the Committee was management, compliance and the content with the quality of the Groups assessments performed by Internal financial and regulatory reporting, its Audit, the Committee was satisfied with ethical standards and its relationships the overalladequacy of the lines ofdefence with regulators, the Groups risk monitoring as described on page 30. and the internal control framework and the adequacy of the lines of defence see the Emerging and thematic risks Key risks and mitigations section of this Emerging and thematic risks are now Annual Report.
standing items on the Committees agenda.
During the year the Committee considered: Merlyn Lowther The impact of the Olympics on the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Groups London-based operations: 6 March 2013 The possibility and potential impact of unauthorised trading: Investment risk: and The Eurozone crisis and the implicationsof a possible break-up of the Eurozone.
Additionally, in conjunction with the strategic review undertaken by the Board, the Committee considered the strategic risks the Group faces.
The focus was on risks related to clients and markets and the externalenvironment, including regulation.
The results of this review were reported tothe Board.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code As the UKs largest listed asset As chairman of the Nominations B: Effectiveness B.
1 board and its committees should management company, corporate Committee, the Chairman also oversees have the appropriate balance of skills, governance is very important to us.
We the Chief Executives and Boards experience, independence and are committed to business integrity, high succession planning.
knowledge of the company ethical values and professionalism across Board member biographies are provided all of our activities.
The Board supports the The Chief Executive is responsible for on pages 44 and 45 and identify the highest standards of corporate governance the executive management and strategic experience each Director brings to as it rmly believes good governance development of the Group and its the Board.
fosters an environment which contributes businesses.
This includes recommending to effective, long-term decision-making.
the Groups strategy and budget to the At the end of 2012 there were 12 Directors: Board and thereafter the successful the Chairman, four executive Directors, Compliance with the Code implementation of the strategy, assisted six independent non-executive Directors Throughout the year, the Company by the Group Management Committee.
and one non-executive Director who complied with all provisions of the Code is not independent.
At the time of his asset out below, with the exception that The Senior Independent Director provides appointment as Chairman, on 3 May 2012, Directors were not required to stand for shareholders with an alternative means of communication with the Board should the Board considered that Andrew Beeson re-election annually at the 2012 Annual they have concerns that cannot be was independent.
Bruno Schroder does General Meeting.
An explanation in respect resolved by discussions with the Chairman not meet the test of independence under of this non-compliance is provided under section B.
He is also the UK Corporate Governance Code in responsible for the annual evaluation view of his relationship with the principal Copies of the Code can be obtained from of the Chairmans performance, where shareholder group and because he has the UK Financial Reporting Councils this is not externally facilitated.
served on the Board for more than website at www.
In addition to their letters of appointment A: Leadership and service contracts, the Chairman, Chief B.
1 an effective boardcollectively Executive and Senior Independent Director procedure for the appointment of new responsible for the success of the each have a role description setting out directors to the board.
The Nominations Committee leads the The Board is accountable to shareholders process for Board appointments and for the creation and delivery of strong, A.
4 non-executive directors should makes recommendations to the Board.
sustainable financial performance and constructively challenge and help develop long-term shareholder value.
The Board proposals for strategy.
See the Nominations Committee report achieves this through its own decisionDuring the year the Board undertook on page 52 for a description of the work making, delegating responsibilities to a strategic review which was considered of the Committee.
Board Committees and delegating the at two separate Board meetings, one authority to manage the business to the of which was the annual two-day The rules providing for the appointment, Chief Executive, as described below.
election, removal and re-election of Directors are contained in the Companys The Chairman and the Chief Executive All non-executive Directors attended Articles of Association.
agree an 18-month rolling programme both meetings and were encouraged of items for discussion, which is regularly to challenge managements proposals.
3 All directors should be able to allocate reviewed and updated to ensure key In addition, the Audit and Risk Committee sufficient time to the company issues are considered in a timely manner.
held a meeting which considered those On the appointment of Andrew Beeson as risks which could impact the Groups Chairman and of Nichola Pease, the Board A.
2 clear division of responsibilities strategy or undermine its business model.
considered their other commitments and and was satisfied that they had sufficient time A.
3 the chairman is responsible for The Chairman and non-executive Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
the leadership of the board and ensuring also met, as the Chairmans Committee, its effectiveness on four occasions prior to Board meetings.
The terms and conditions of appointment The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive At the Chairmans invitation, the Chief of non-executive Directors include a are separate and clearly dened.
Executive also attended these meetings.
provision outlining the expected Matters discussed included strategy, commitment of Directors to discharge The Chairman is responsible for leading the effectiveness, succession planning and their duties.
No changes were made to Board, ensuring its effectiveness, promoting Board evaluation.
the executive Directors service contracts a culture of openness and debate, and and with the exception of Andrew Beeson, monitoring and evaluating the performance whose letter was amended to reect his of the Board, its Committees and individual appointment as Chairman, no changes Directors including the Chief Executive.
were made to the non-executive Directors letters of appointment in 2012.
58 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance The Board considers the time Prior to each meeting, reports and papers B.
7 All directors should be submitted commitments ofall Directors standing are distributed to the Board.
In addition for re-election for election or re-election before tothe Board papers, relevant information At the 2012 Annual General Meeting recommending them to shareholders.
iscirculated between meetings including Directors were not subject to annual information on financial performance, re-election.
In accordance with the Groups The Board believes that by holding management changes, analysts Corporate Governance Guidelines which external appointments executive Directors commentaries on the Group and existed at that time and the Companys and other employees can benefit the information on the competitive environment Articles of Association, each Director was Group through broadening their skills, and the asset management industry required to retire no later than the third experience and expertise.
Minutes of Board Committee Annual General Meeting following their last has a policy on external appointments meetings are circulated to Directors and election or re-election to the Board.
Any which allows executive Directors to take the Board also receives regular reports non-executive Director who had served up non-executive directorships.
from the Chairmen of the Remuneration, more than nine years was required to seek Non-executive Directors are required Nominations and Audit and Risk re-election annually.
Bruno Schroder had to notify the Chairman before taking Committees.
Minutes of Group therefore retired and stood for re-election at on any additional appointments.
Management Committee meetings are the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
The also circulated to the Board.
Other Board had previously decided not to Directors and employees are usually executives below Board level are invited to comply with the provision B.
7 on the permitted to retain any fees paid in present on their areas of responsibility at grounds that it did not believe that annual respect of such appointments.
No Board meetings and other meetings such re-election encourages taking a long-term executive Director has taken on more as Board brieng sessions.
Direct access view of the business.
However, in light of than one non-executive directorship or to senior management is open to all developing market practice, the Board has the chairmanship of another FTSE 100 Directors through such presentations.
decided that from the 2013 Annual General company.
Details of external appointments Meeting all Directors expecting to serve are set out on pages 44 and 45.
During the year the Group introduced throughout the year will stand for election the electronic delivery of Board papers.
A register of disclosed actual or potential This removed the need for printing and conicts is maintained and reviewed mailing papers.
Directors are able to view The Notice of Annual General Meeting annually by the Board.
Any actual or material immediately upon publication setsout relevant information to enable potential conicts that arise during the year securely on tablet devices.
shareholders to make an informed decision are considered by the Board at the next on the election and re-election of Directors.
None of the Directors had The Company Secretary is responsible an interest in any significant contract with for advising and supporting the Chairman C: Accountability the Company or any of its subsidiaries, and the Board on governance matters.
C. 1 board should present a balanced either during or at the end of the year.
All Directors have access to the advice and understandable assessment of the and services of the Company Secretary companys position and prospects.
4 All directors should receive induction and can arrange through him to receive The Directors statement of responsibilities on joining the board professional advice independently of the for the preparation of the Annual Report In order that newly appointed Directors Company, at the Companys expense.
The going concern are familiar with the Companys strategy, statement can be found on page 76. business model, operations and the risks B.
6 board should undertake a formal TheStrategy and Business review sections it faces, all new Directors receive a tailored and rigorous annual evaluation of this report describe the performance induction programme upon appointment.
In 2012, the Board used an external ofthe business as set out on pages 10 facilitator to conduct the evaluation of its to41.
The independent auditors report to On joining the Board Nichola Pease effectiveness.
More detail can be found themembers of Schroders plc is set out received a tailored induction programme.
More detail can be found on page 51.
The performance of the Chief Executive in B.
5 board should be supplied in a managing the business was considered by timely manner with information the Chairman and was discussed with the The Company Secretary is responsible for Chief Executive.
ensuring there are appropriate information ows between the Board and its Committees and between senior management and non-executive Directors.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code continued C. 2 board is responsible for D: Remuneration E: Relations with shareholders determining the nature and extent of the D. 1 Levels of remuneration should be E. 1 board as a whole has responsibility significant risks it is willing to take in sufficient to attract, retain and motivate for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue achieving its strategic objectives directors of quality A significant with shareholders takes place.
and proportion of executive directors and C. 3 board should establish formal and remuneration should be structured E. 2 board should use the AGM transparent arrangements for considering so as to link rewards to corporate tocommunicate with investors and to how they should apply the corporate and individual performance.
reporting and risk management and and The Company maintains a relationship internal control principles and for D. 2 a formal and transparent with shareholders through a regular maintaining an appropriate relationship procedurefor developing policy on programme of presentations and meetings with the Companys auditor.
executive remuneration and for fixing to inform institutional investors, analysts The Board is accountable for risk and is theremuneration packages of and prospective shareholders, attended responsible for the oversight of the risk individualdirectors by the Chief Executive, Chief Financial management process, the Groups system The Groups remuneration policy is set officer and other senior executives.
of internal controls and for reviewing the outin the Remuneration report on The Company holds in excess of 100 effectiveness of those controls.
The pages 62to 75. such meetings eachyear.
Information systemcan provide only reasonable and about significant developments, financial not absolute assurance against material Long-term thinking governs our approach statements and other corporate financial misstatement or loss and is to remuneration, with a strategy that seeks information are made available via our designed to mitigate, not eliminate, risk.
to ensure pay for performance, aligning website at www.
The responsibilities do not extend to the interests of employees and Feedback from shareholders is reported the Groups joint ventures and associates.
shareholders: incentivising and retaining to the Board as appropriate.
The Audit and Risk Committee supports talented individuals: and complying with the Board with this responsibility.
The Audit current best practice and regulatory The Annual General Meeting provides and Risk Committee report on page 54 requirements.
Performance-related shareholders with an opportunity to sets out a description of the work of the elements of executive Directors question the Board.
This covers financial reporting, remuneration are designed to promote gives a review of the Groups performance risk management, internal control and how thelong-term success of the Company.
and informs shareholders of the first the Group ensures the auditors continued quarter results.
The Annual Report and independence.
In addition to information The Groups main deferred remuneration the Notice of Annual General Meeting received from the Audit and Risk plans expired in March 2011 and, having are available to shareholders at least Committee, the Board reviewed the consulted shareholders on the design of 20 working days before the meeting.
Groups key risks, risk management replacement plans that included provisions framework and governance arrangements for claw back, the Committee The Senior Independent Director is and is of the view that the control recommended to the Board new plans available to shareholders asan alternative processes for identifying, evaluating and which were approved by shareholders means of communication with the Board managing the Groups significant risks at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
should they have concerns that cannot be have been in place throughout the year resolved by discussions with the Chairman and also up to the date of this report We have looked to adopt early some or executive Directors.
and that they comply with the Financial oftheproposals from the Department Reporting Councils guidance for directors for Business Innovation & Skills on internal controls.
The Board also recommendations on Narrative Reporting considers that these processes and Executive Remuneration to explain ensure necessary actions have or are better our reward philosophy and how our being taken to remedy any significant long-term thinking is reectedin how we failings identied as part of the ongoing reward our people.
Webelieve strongly in risk management processes.
the principle of pay for performance and as an asset manager and a listed company we participated in theUK Finance Reporting Councils Reporting Lab review of these new disclosure requirements.
60 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Ownership, capital structure and voting rights Ownership, capital structure At the last Annual General Meeting, vote or abstain from voting, or accept any andvoting rights shareholders renewed the Directors offer relating to shares, in any way it thinks Schroders has developed under stable general authority to issue non-voting t. In so doing, it may take into account ownership for more than 200 years, and ordinary shares up to an aggregate both financial and non-financial interests has been a public company listed on the nominal value of 5,000,000 for the ofthe beneciaries and their dependents.
London Stock Exchange since 1959. purposes of providing the Directors with Under the terms of the Share Incentive The Schroder family interests are in shares the exibility to make limited issues of Plan, for which more detail can be found owned by trusts settled by members of non-voting ordinary shares or to grant inthe Remuneration report, shares are the family and in personal shareholdings.
rights to subscribe for, or convert securities held in trust on behalf of participants.
Relevant statutory and regulatory into, non-voting ordinary shares.
Renewal Thetrustee can exercise the voting rights disclosures are in the table below.
of this authority will be sought at the 2013 inrespect of the participants share Annual General Meeting.
This authority entitlements but can only do so at the The Companys share capital is comprised does not cover shares issued under participants direction.
of ordinary shares of 1 each and employee share plans.
non-voting ordinary shares of 1 each.
There are no restrictions on the transfer At the start of the year there were ofthe Companys shares save for: The non-voting share class was created 56,505,600 non-voting ordinary shares restrictions that may from time to time in1986 to facilitate the operation of an in issue, of which 554,847 were held in beimposed by laws and regulations employee share option plan without treasury.
During the year 473,750 nonforexample, those relating to market diluting the voting rights of ordinary voting ordinary shares were issued and no abuse and insider dealing : shareholders.
The non-voting ordinary shares were repurchased by the Company.
restrictions that may be imposed pursuant shares carry the same rights as ordinary The Company cancelled 473,750 nonto the Listing Rules of the UK Financial shares except that they do not confer voting shares held in treasury.
The result Services Authority or its successor bodies, the right to attend and vote at any general of these transactions was that as at whereby certain employees of the Group meeting of the Company, and that on a 31 December 2012, 56,505,600 non-voting would require approval to deal in shares: capitalisation issue they carry the right to ordinary shares were in issue, of which restrictions on the transfer of shares that receive non-voting ordinary shares rather 81,097 were held in treasury, and the ratio may be imposed under the Companys than ordinary shares.
of ordinary shares to non-voting ordinary Articles of Association or under Part 22 shares in issue was four to one.
ofthe UK Companies Act 2006, in When the non-voting share class was eithercase following a failure to supply created there was a ratio of four ordinary Since 31 December 2012, 40,000 noninformation required to be disclosed shares to one non-voting ordinary share.
voting ordinary shares have been issued following service of a request under Since 1986 the Company has at times under the Groups share option plans: section 793 of the UK Companies Act issued additional non-voting ordinary the corresponding number of shares held 2006: and shares, principally as a result of the in treasury were cancelled and therefore restrictions on the transfer of shares exercise of awards made under as at the date of this report 56,505,600 heldunder certain employee share plans the Groups share and share option plans.
non-voting ordinary shares were in issue, while they remain subject to the plan.
The Company did not intend to increase of which 41,097 remained in treasury.
the issued non-voting share capital over The Company is not aware of any agreement the medium term as a result of such Under the terms of the Schroders between shareholders which may restrict the awards.
Therefore the Company has, Employee benefit Trust the trustee may transfer of securities or voting rights.
at times, undertaken repurchases of non-voting ordinary shares to eliminate the increase in shares in issue arising from Substantial shareholdings shares issued and to neutralise the dilutive As at 31 December 2012, the Company had received notications, in accordance with the effect of expected future issues of FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R, of interests in three per cent.
or more of the non-voting ordinary shares.
A resolution voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital, as set out in the table below.
has been put to shareholders each year to There have been no changes to these notications as at the date of this report.
authorise the Directors to undertake such No.
of voting % of voting repurchases.
At the 2012 Annual General Class of rights held rights held Meeting shareholders gave approval for the Notier shares indirectly indirectly 1 Company to purchase up to 14,100,000 Vincitas Limited Ordinary 60,724,609 26.87 1 non-voting ordinary shares.
A similar Veritas Limited Ordinary 36,795,041 16.28 2 resolution will be proposed to shareholders Flavida Limited Ordinary 60,951,886 26.97 2 at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Fervida Limited Ordinary 40,188,706 17.78 Harris Associates L. P. Ordinary 15,969,200 7.07 The Company has no authority either to 1 Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited act as trustees of certain settlements made by members of the issue or repurchase any ordinary shares Schroderfamily.
2 and the number of ordinary shares in issue The interests of Flavida Limited and Fervida Limited include interests in voting rights in respect of all the shares in which Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited are interested as trustees.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61
