DIRECTORS REPORT All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and gearing proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, levels are discussed by the Board and Managers at every meeting.
including their relevant experience, can be found on pages 6 and 7.
The majority of the Companys investments are in quoted securities There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent that are readily realisable.
professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Employees Terms of Appointment The Company has no employees.
Letters which specify the terms of appointment are issued to new Directors.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection on Social and Community Issues request.
As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or community responsibilities.
The Company, however, believes that Under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, a it is in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek and governance factors when selecting and retaining investments.
election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
In Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment accordance with the Code all Directors offer themselves for can be found under Corporate Governance and Stewardship on re-election annually.
Independence of Directors Corporate Governance All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of the Managers and free of any business or other relationship that Compliance could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines how the Mr JPHS Scott and Mr WG McQueen, have served on the Board for principles of the June 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code more than nine years.
the Code, which can be found at www.
uk, were applied The Directors recognise the value of progressive refreshing of, throughout the financial year.
and succession planning for, company boards and the Boards The Board confirms that the Company has complied throughout the composition is reviewed annually.
However, the Board is of the year under review with the relevant provisions of the Code except view that length of service will not necessarily compromise the that the Chairman of the Board is a member of the Audit Committee.
independence or contribution of directors of an investment trust The Board believes it is appropriate for Mr JPHS Scott to be a company, where continuity and experience can be a benefit to member of the Committee as he is considered to be independent the board.
The Board concurs with the view expressed in the AIC and there are no conicts of interest.
Code that long-serving Directors should not be prevented from being considered as independent.
The Association of Investment Companies has published its own Code of Corporate Governance which provides a framework of Following formal performance evaluation, the Board has concluded best practice for investment companies which can be found at that, notwithstanding their length of service, Mr JPHS Scott and Mr www.
The Board is of the opinion that the Company WG McQueen continue to demonstrate independence of character has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code.
and judgement and their skills and experience are a benefit to the Board.
The Board The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
It has Meetings a number of matters reserved for its approval including strategy, There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed to investment policy, currency hedging, borrowings, gearing, treasury address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of investment matters, dividend and corporate governance policy.
A separate policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue budgets, meeting devoted to strategy is held each year.
The Board also dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
The Board reviews the financial statements, investment transactions, revenue considers that it meets sufciently regularly to discharge its duties budgets and performance.
Full and timely information is provided effectively.
The table below shows the attendance record for the to the Board to enable the Board to function effectively and to allow Board and Committee Meetings held during the year.
The Annual Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
General Meeting was attended by all Directors serving at that date.
Following the appointment of Dr Linda Yueh on 3 May 2012 the Directors Attendance at Meetings Board comprises six Directors, all of whom are non-executive.
Audit Nomination The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the Board Committee Committee Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
Number of meetings 6 2 1 The executive responsibility for investment management has been delegated to the Companys Managers and Secretaries, Baillie Gifford JPHS Scott 62 1 & Co, and, in the context of a Board comprising only non-executive MM Gray 62 1 Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
Mr MM Gray is the Professor JA Kay 62 1 Senior Independent Director.
FC McBain 62 1 The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and WG McQueen 62 1 experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership and Dr L Yueh was appointed subsequent to the year end, 3 May 2012.
22 ANNUAL REPORT 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Nomination Committee Induction and Training The Nomination Committee consists of the independent non-executive New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is Directors and the Chairman of the Board is Chairman of the tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee.
The Committee meets on an annual basis and at were provided during the year on industry and regulatory matters, such other times as may be required.
The Committee has written taxation and company law.
The Directors receive other training as terms of reference which include reviewing the Board, identifying necessary.
and nominating new candidates for appointment to the Board, Remuneration Board appraisal, succession planning and training.
The Committee As all the Directors are non-executive, there is no requirement for a also considers whether Directors should be recommended for separate remuneration committee.
Directors fees are considered by re-election by shareholders.
The Committee is responsible for the Board as a whole within the limits approved by shareholders.
considering Directors potential conicts of interest and for making The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in the Directors recommendations to the Board on whether or not the potential Remuneration Report on pages 28 and 29. conicts should be authorised.
The terms of reference are available on request from the Company and on the Companys page of the Internal Controls and Risk Management Managers website: www.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing their The Nomination Committee reviewed the Directors balance of skills, effectiveness.
The systems are designed to manage rather than knowledge, experience and length of service during the year.
The eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can Committee concluded that, in line with the policy for regular only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material refreshment of the Board, an additional Director should be misstatement or loss.
The Committee identied the skills and experience that The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for identifying, would strengthen the Board having due regard for the benets of diversity, including gender.
The Committee considered several high evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Revised quality candidates and identied Dr Yueh as the preferred candidate due to her international knowledge and experience and in particular Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Following an interview by the Board, Dr The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Yueh was appointed on 3 May 2012.
The large number of high Companys risk management and internal control systems and they quality candidates made it unnecessary to use external search have procedures in place to review their effectiveness on a regular consultants or open advertising.
No significant weaknesses were identied in the year under Following the appointment of Dr Yueh, two Directors out of six are review.
While the Board recognises the benets of gender diversity, The practical measures to ensure compliance with regulation and the priority in appointing new Directors to the Board is to identify the company law, and to provide effective and efficient operations and candidate with the best range of skills and experience to investment management, have been delegated to the Managers and complement existing Directors.
Secretaries, Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of the Management Agreement.
The practical measures in relation to the Performance Evaluation design, implementation and maintenance of control policies and The Nomination Committee met to assess the performance of the procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company and to manage Chairman, each Director, the Board as a whole and its Committees.
its affairs properly, including the maintenance of effective operational Prior to the meeting each Director completed an evaluation form and compliance controls and risk management have also been which they discussed individually with the Chairman.
The appraisal delegated to Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Board acknowledges its of the Chairman was led by Mr MM Gray.
responsibilities to supervise and control the discharge by the The appraisals considered, amongst other criteria, the balance of Managers and Secretaries of their obligations.
skills of the Board, the contribution of individual Directors, the overall The Baillie Gifford & Co heads of Business Risk & Internal Audit and competency and effectiveness of the Board and its Committees and Regulatory Risk provide the Board with regular reports on Baillie the continuing professional development undertaken by Directors Gifford & Cos monitoring programmes.
The reporting procedures during the year.
Following this process it was concluded that the for these departments are dened and formalised within a service performance of each Director, the Chairman, the Board and its level agreement.
Baillie Gifford & Co conducts an annual review Committees continues to be effective and each Director and the of its system of internal controls which is documented within an Chairman remains committed to the Company.
internal controls report which complies with Technical Release A review of the Chairmans and other Directors commitments was AAF 01 06 Assurance Reports on Internal Controls of Service carried out and the Nomination Committee is satisfied that they are Organisations made available to Third Parties.
This report is capable of devoting sufficient time to the Company.
There were independently reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos auditor and no significant changes to the Chairmans other commitments during a copy is submitted to the Audit Committee.
The Directors are considering the merits of having the Board evaluation externally facilitated.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 DIRECTORS REPORT The Companys investments are segregated from those of Baillie Committee.
Mr WG McQueen is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Gifford & Co and their other clients through the appointment of The Committees responsibilities which were discharged during the The Bank of New York Mellon as independent custodian of the year include: Companys investments.
The custodian prepares a report on its s MONITORIng and reviewing the integrity of the half-yearly and internal controls which is independently reviewed by KPMG LLP.
annual financial statements and any formal announcements A detailed risk map is prepared which identies the significant risks relating to the Companys financial performance: faced by the Company and the key controls employed to manage s REVIEWING THE ADEQUACY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROL AND these risks.
"risk management systems: These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly to the s MAKING RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE ""OARD IN RELATION TO THE nature and extent of the risks facing the Company and that they are appointment of the external auditor and approving the being actively monitored."
Where changes in risk have been remuneration and terms of their engagement: identied during the year they also provide a mechanism to assess s DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING POLICY ON THE ENGAGEMENT whether further action is required to manage the risks identied.
The of the external auditor to supply non-audit services: Board confirms that these procedures have been in place throughout the Companys financial year and continue to be in place up to the s REVIEWING AND MONITORING THE INDEPENDENCE OBJECTIVITY AND date of approval of this Report.
"effectiveness of the external auditor: Internal Audit s REVIEWING THE ARRANGEMENTS IN PLACE WITHIN ""AILLIE 'IFFORD The Audit Committee carries out an annual review of the need for an Co whereby its staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about internal audit function."
The Committee continues to believe that the possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other compliance and internal control systems and the internal audit matters insofar as they may affect the Company: function in place within the Managers and Secretaries provide s REVIEWING THE TERMS OF THE NVESTMENTANAGEMENT !GREEMENT sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which and safeguards shareholders investment and the Companys assets, s CONSIDERING ANNUALLY WHETHER THERE IS A NEED FOR THE #OMPANY is maintained.
An internal audit function, specic to the Company, to have its own internal audit function.
KPMG Audit Plc is engaged as the Companys Auditor.
Having Accountability and Audit considered the experience and tenure of the audit partner and staff The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditor in and the nature of services provided, the Committee remains satisfied connection with the Financial Statements are set out on pages 30 with the Auditors effectiveness.
The audit partners responsible for the and 31. audit are rotated every 5 years and the current lead partner was Going Concern appointed during the year.
There are no contractual obligations In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance on restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
going concern and liquidity risk, the Directors have undertaken a The Committee receives conrmation from the Auditor that they have rigorous review of the Companys ability to continue as a going complied with the relevant UK professional and regulatory concern.
Non-audit fees for the year to The Companys assets, the majority of which are investments in quoted 31 March 2012 were 640 and related to the certication of securities which are readily realisable, exceed its liabilities signicantly.
financial information for the debenture trustees.
The Committee does The Board approves borrowing limits and reviews regularly the not believe that this has impaired the Auditors independence.
amount of any borrowings and compliance with banking covenants.
Relations with Shareholders Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on the The Board places great importance on communication with going concern basis as it is the Directors opinion that the Company shareholders.
The Companys Managers meet regularly with will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
institutional shareholders and report shareholders views to the Audit Committee Board.
The Chairman is available to meet with shareholders as An Audit Committee has been established consisting of all Directors.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with any Its authority and duties are clearly dened within its written terms of members of the Board may do so by writing to them at the reference, which are available on request from the Company and Companys registered ofce.
on the Companys page of the Managers website: The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for www.
As the Board believes that Mr JPHS communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged Scott is independent and that there are no conicts of interest, the for each resolution is announced at the Meeting and is published Board considers it appropriate for him to be a member of the Audit on the Companys page of the Managers website: www.
com subsequent to the meeting.
The notice period for the Annual General Meeting is at least twenty working days.
