DIRECTORS REPORT All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and gearing proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, levels are discussed by the Board and Managers at every meeting.
including their relevant experience, can be found on pages 6 and 7.
The majority of the Companys investments are in quoted securities There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent that are readily realisable.
professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Employees Terms of Appointment The Company has no employees.
Letters which specify the terms of appointment are issued to new Directors.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection on Social and Community Issues request.
As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or community responsibilities.
The Company, however, believes that Under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, a it is in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek and governance factors when selecting and retaining investments.
election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
In Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment accordance with the Code all Directors offer themselves for can be found under Corporate Governance and Stewardship on re-election annually.
Independence of Directors Corporate Governance All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of the Managers and free of any business or other relationship that Compliance could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines how the Mr JPHS Scott and Mr WG McQueen, have served on the Board for principles of the June 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code more than nine years.
the Code, which can be found at www.
uk, were applied The Directors recognise the value of progressive refreshing of, throughout the financial year.
and succession planning for, company boards and the Boards The Board confirms that the Company has complied throughout the composition is reviewed annually.
However, the Board is of the year under review with the relevant provisions of the Code except view that length of service will not necessarily compromise the that the Chairman of the Board is a member of the Audit Committee.
independence or contribution of directors of an investment trust The Board believes it is appropriate for Mr JPHS Scott to be a company, where continuity and experience can be a benefit to member of the Committee as he is considered to be independent the board.
The Board concurs with the view expressed in the AIC and there are no conicts of interest.
Code that long-serving Directors should not be prevented from being considered as independent.
The Association of Investment Companies has published its own Code of Corporate Governance which provides a framework of Following formal performance evaluation, the Board has concluded best practice for investment companies which can be found at that, notwithstanding their length of service, Mr JPHS Scott and Mr www.
The Board is of the opinion that the Company WG McQueen continue to demonstrate independence of character has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code.
and judgement and their skills and experience are a benefit to the Board.
The Board The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
It has Meetings a number of matters reserved for its approval including strategy, There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed to investment policy, currency hedging, borrowings, gearing, treasury address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of investment matters, dividend and corporate governance policy.
A separate policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue budgets, meeting devoted to strategy is held each year.
The Board also dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
The Board reviews the financial statements, investment transactions, revenue considers that it meets sufciently regularly to discharge its duties budgets and performance.
Full and timely information is provided effectively.
The table below shows the attendance record for the to the Board to enable the Board to function effectively and to allow Board and Committee Meetings held during the year.
The Annual Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
General Meeting was attended by all Directors serving at that date.
Following the appointment of Dr Linda Yueh on 3 May 2012 the Directors Attendance at Meetings Board comprises six Directors, all of whom are non-executive.
Audit Nomination The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the Board Committee Committee Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
Number of meetings 6 2 1 The executive responsibility for investment management has been delegated to the Companys Managers and Secretaries, Baillie Gifford JPHS Scott 62 1 & Co, and, in the context of a Board comprising only non-executive MM Gray 62 1 Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
Mr MM Gray is the Professor JA Kay 62 1 Senior Independent Director.
FC McBain 62 1 The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and WG McQueen 62 1 experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership and Dr L Yueh was appointed subsequent to the year end, 3 May 2012.
