45 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance report Governance Competition.
Carillion plc, its subsidiaries and associated companies The Board is firmly committed to the highest standards of corporate under Carillion control have a policy that all business activities are governance and considers that good governance commences with carried out in full compliance with competition laws the laws aneffective Board providing strong and respected leadership.
Competition law prevents companies from carrying out any activities that restrict competition The Non-Executive Directors bring their wide experience to the and makes illegal activities such as price fixing, unfair pricing, market boardroom to both support and develop business strategy and sharing and refusal to supply customers.
There is a Competition operations and to constructively challenge the Executive Directors.
Inaddition, the Board evaluation process which we introduced in 2002supports the culture of constructive challenge and confirms Money laundering.
Carillion aims to maintain high standards of thatNon-Executive Directors are independent in their judgement.
conduct by preventing criminal activity through money laundering.
There is a Money Laundering Policy.
During the year to 31 December 2012 as detailed below and in the Remuneration report on page 53, the Company complied fully with Respect for Human Rights.
Carillion supports the belief that human therequirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code June 2010. rights are universal and adheres to the principles of human rights in Carillion is now addressing the UK Corporate Governance Code itsoperations.
Carillion supports the United Nations Declaration on published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012.
The Human Rights and works hard to ensure that in all areas of interaction UK Corporate Governance Code is publicly available at www.
with its employees, clients, suppliers, third parties, interviewees and joint venture parties that everyone is protected and treated absolutely Ethics and Business Integrity Policy fairly.
Carillion has a Health & Safety Policy and an Equal Opportunities The Board remains committed to maintaining high standards of and Diversity Policy.
ethicsand business integrity throughout the organisation recognising this to be essential to both Group performance and reputation.
Carillion respects the rule of law in all our dealings and has minimum standard compliance with all law and Carillion is committed to the preservation of its reputation and regulation to which its businesses are subject.
Carillion has legal integrity through compliance with applicable laws, regulations compliance programmes for: andethical standards across all territories in which it operates.
European Union and United Kingdom Competition Laws Carillions clear and unequivocal approach to business integrity and Bribery Act 2010 ethics underlies the Groups core values of openness, collaboration, Canadian Criminal Code C46 mutual dependency, sustainable, profitable growth, professional Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act Canada.
The Ethics and Integrity Policy is designed toensure that Carillion conducts its business to the highest Ethics and Compliance Office.
As a response to the introduction ethicalstandards.
ofthe Bribery Act 2010, the Ethics and Compliance Office was established in 2010.
This Office reviews and monitors compliance The Ethics and Business Integrity Policy sets out the standards and andensures that Carillion maintains high ethical standards.
It reports behaviours that all Carillion employees are expected to meet wherever to the Business Integrity Committee on key global compliance risks in the world we operate.
The way Carillion delivers this policy is andfunctional activity.
reflected in the way the Group competes for business and delivers itsservices, focused on quality, value for money and the reliability Reporting, disclosure and whistleblowing.
All of Carillions andreputation of its employees.
employees have a responsibility to protect Carillions assets, including information and goodwill as well as property.
Carillion encourages The policy is: itspeople to raise genuine concerns about malpractice at the earliest possible stage and in the right way.
There is a Whistleblowing Policy Prohibition of fraud, bribery and corruption.
Carillion takes and an Ethics and Business Integrity Incident Response Plan.
extremelyseriously the prevention and detection of fraud, bribery andcorruption and any other fraudulent or corrupt activity.
It will This Ethics and Business Integrity Policy is applied by all Carillions nottolerate them in any form.
The Board is fully committed to business through a series of detailed procedures.
They allow Carillion promoting azero tolerance approach across the Carillion Group.
to carry into practice its reputation for conducting business to the Thereis a Fraud Policy.
highest ethical standards, which are essential to its relationships withcustomers, business partners, employees, shareholders and the Gifts and hospitality.
It is prohibited for a Carillion employee to offer public.
The detailed procedures reflect the way Carillion competes orreceive gifts or hospitality that could influence or be perceived to forbusiness: through the quality and value of its work and through becapable of influencing the outcome of transactions or decisions thereliability and reputation of its people.
There is a Gifts and Hospitality Policy.
The Ethics and Business Integrity Policy is overseen by the Business Insider trading.
Those who have access to inside information are Integrity Committee, and its implementation is reviewed annually advised of their responsibilities under the insider dealing rules.
isa Carillion Insider Dealing Code.
All Carillion employees must disclose or seekdirection on any issues that could potentially conflict with their responsibilities to the Company.
There is a Conflicts of Interest Policy.
Carillion seeks to ensure that it maintains its ethical standards and behaves respectfully when working with others.
The relationships with Carillions suppliers and business partners are based on the principle of fair and honest dealings at all times and in all ways.
Carillion expects its suppliers and business associates and joint venture partners to extend the same high standards to all others with whom they do business, including employees, sub-contractors and other third parties.
There is a Purchasing and Supply Chain Code of Ethics and a Sustainable Supplier Charter.
Financial statements Governance Our performance About us 46 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance report continued Directors Directors completed online questionnaires addressing: The Board Board composition Main principle the role of Directors and the Board There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of effectiveness of Board meetings theCompany between the running of the Board and the executive the Committee structure and Committee performance responsibility for the running of the Companys business.
No one succession planning and human resource management individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
monitoring performance leadership and culture As part of their role as members of a unitary Board, Non-Executive Directors remuneration Directors should constructively challenge and help develop proposals management of subsidiary companies on strategy.
relations with shareholders Board accountability and audit In 2012, the Company was led by a Board comprising two Executive priorities for change.
The Chairman and each of theNon-Executive Directors are considered to be independent of Separate questionnaires covered the operation and effectiveness of management.
They each have substantial relevant experience and theBoards Committees.
The performance of the Chairman and each haveno business or other relationship that could materially interfere Director was reviewed as part of the Board evaluation process.
Philip Green is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The online process ensures the anonymity of respondents and thus openness and a frank exchange of views.
Chief Executives Leadership Team In discharging his responsibilities, Richard Howson, the Group Chief At the November 2012 Board meeting, the Directors reviewed the Executive, is assisted by the Chief Executives Leadership Team CELT results of the evaluation.
The findings confirmed that, amongst a which meets every month.
The CELT is a management and strategy number of things, Board composition and dynamics were highly rated forum which is chaired by Mr. Howson.
Its primary responsibilities as were the roles and terms of reference of the Board Committees, include strategy development, operational and financial management succession planning for top management and the understanding of and the executive management of the Groups businesses.
In addition the risks and opportunities inherent in the Group structure.
In addition, to Mr Howson, the CELT comprises, the Group Finance Director, the information provided to the Board was rated highly as was testing and Managing Directors of the Business Units, the Group Development developing the Groups strategy.
It was also confirmed that each andStrategy Director, the Group HR Director and the Company Director continues to perform effectively and to demonstrate Secretary and Director of Legal Services.
The key priorities for the Board in 2013 were identified as overseeing Main principle strategic decisions and direction setting, risk management and Board All Directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, composition.
subject to continued satisfactory performance.
The Board intends to continue to comply with the UK Corporate All Directors are subject to annual re-election.
Governance Code guidance that the evaluation should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
Main principle The Board and its committees should have the appropriate Main principle balanceofskills, experience, independence and knowledge of The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring theCompany toenable them to discharge their respective duties its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group The Board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual Chief Executive are as follows: evaluationof its own performance and that of its committees andindividual Directors.
the primary job of the Chairman of a public company is to provide continuity, experience and governance while the Group Chief Board and committee performance evaluation Executive provides leadership, energy, imagination and the In 2012, a detailed performance evaluation of the Board, the drivingforce Committees and each Director was conducted as it has been in each the Chairman is viewed by investors as the ultimate steward of the of the last 11 years.
business and the guardian of the interests of all the shareholders.
Nonetheless, it is essential that the outline of theirrespective roles The 2012 Board performance evaluation involved an external facilitator, encourages the Chairman and Group ChiefExecutive to work well Lintstock Limited Lintstock, a London based corporate advisory together to provide effective andcomplementary stewardship firm.
Lintstock has, for a number of years, supplied software to the the Chairman must: Company Secretariat for the provision of online questionnaires used take overall responsibility for the composition and capability of for Board performance evaluation.
Other than this, Lintstock does not theBoard provide any services to Carillion and acted as an independent facilitator consult regularly with the Group Chief Executive and be available for the Board evaluation.
on a flexible basis for providing advice, counsel and support to the Group Chief Executive.
Lintstock initially engaged with the Chairman and the Company the Group Chief Executive must: Secretary to set the context for the 2012 evaluation and subsequently manage the Executive Directors and the Groups day-to-day activities reviewed and reported on the performance of the Carillion Board and prepare and present to the Board strategic options for growth in Committees during 2012. shareholder value set the operating plans and budgets required to deliver the agreed strategy ensure that the Group has in place appropriate risk management and control mechanisms.
47 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible Main principle to the Board for ensuring that agreed procedures and applicable rules All Directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the and regulations are observed.
The Board approves the appointment Companyto discharge their responsibilities effectively.
and removal of the Company Secretary.
The Board had a programme of 10 meetings in 2012.
In addition, Any Director may, in furtherance of his duties, take independent theChairman holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors professional advice when necessary, at the expense of the Company.
without the Executive Directors present and, at least once a year, theNon-Executive Directors meet without the Chairman present.
The Board is provided with regular and timely information on thefinancial performance of businesses within the Group, and The Board generally meets in Central London, but at least one Board oftheGroup as a whole, together with reports on trading matters, meeting each year is held at one of the Groups overseas locations markets, Health & Safety, sustainability and other relevant issues.
either in the Middle East or Canada, which gives the Directors the opportunity to review the operations and to meet local management.
Documents are made available to all Directors five working days inadvance of the Board meeting.
Since late 2010, the Board has used Main activities of the Board in the year to 31 December 2012 asecure electronic portal to receive Board papers.
The portal provides In 2012, the Board dealt with the following matters: information in a timely and secure manner, enabling the Directors to receive Board papers quickly and to access them via tablet computers Health & Safety wherever they may be.
sustainability policy and practice presentations on the business units performance and strategy In pursuit of best practice, the Carillion plc Board regularly receives Group strategy presentations on governance and regulatory matters.
In January risk management 2012, Richard Alderman, Director of the Serious Fraud Office until financial and interim management statements hisretirement in April 2012, attended the Board meeting to discuss quarterly forecasts theBribery Act 2010 and related anti-corruption issues and the regulatory announcements Groups response to this legislation through risk assessment, dividends trainingand compliance processes.
monthly management results work winning Attendance at meetings in 2012 three year business plan The number of scheduled Board and Committee meetings attended board committee reports byeach Director during 2012 was as follows: review of policies such as ethics and business integrity annual Board evaluation review delegation of authorities Business Audit Remuneration Nominations Integrity insurance matters Board Committee Committee Committee Committee AGM business Number of meetings held 10 4 3 2 2 major projects Richard Adam 10 acquisitions and disposals regulatory issues and briefings Andrew Dougal 9 4 3 2 1 succession planning Philip Green 10 4 3 2 1 Directors share dealings Richard Howson 10 2 appeals committee funding Steven Mogford 10 4 3 2 2 review of conflicts of interest Vanda Murray 10 4 3 2 2 review of third party benefits Philip Rogerson 10 2 2 site visits to operations meeting local management and employees.
Andrew Dougal was unable to attend the June Board meeting as a result of a conflicting board meeting which had been agreed prior to his appointment.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for consideration Andrew Dougal and Philip Green were appointed to the Business Integrity Committee in August 2012. and decision is maintained.
These matters include: Board Committees statutory issues such as the approval of final and interim financial The principal Board Committees are the Remuneration Committee, statements and the recommendation of dividends theAudit Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Business appointments to, and removals from, the Board Integrity Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary the terms of reference and membership of Board committees toeachof these committees.
The terms of reference of each of approval of Group strategy and annual budgets theBoard Committees are available on the Carillion website at approval of authority levels, financial and treasury policies www.
com or on request from the Company Secretary.
authorisation for any acquisition or disposal review of the internal control arrangements and risk managementstrategies review of corporate governance arrangements.
The Executive Directors and the Carillion subsidiary companies operatewithin clearly defined limits of authority delegated by the Board and any matters outside of these limits must be referred to theBoard for consideration.
Financial statements Governance Our performance About us 48 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance report continued Remuneration Committee Vanda Murray was appointed to the Audit Committee in July 2005.
Vanda Murray, Chairman Vanda is Chairman of Vphase plc and a Non-Executive Director of Andrew Dougal Fenner plc, Chemring Group plc, Microgen plc and The Manchester Philip Green Airport Group plc.
Steven Mogford Further biographical details can be found on pages 40 and 41.
The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors and determines and makes recommendations on the Main principle Groupsremuneration policy and framework to recruit, retain There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for andreward Executive Directors and senior executives.
theappointment of new Directors to the Board.
Main principle Nominations Committee There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing Philip Rogerson, Chairman policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration Andrew Dougal packages of individual Directors.
No Director should be involved in Philip Green deciding his or her own remuneration.
Richard Howson Steven Mogford The Remuneration Committee is assisted in its work by Susannah Vanda Murray Clements, Group HR Director, by Philip Rogerson, the Chairman andbyRichard Howson, the Group Chief Executive.
TheGroup The Committee reviews the structure, size, composition, balance ChiefExecutive is consulted on the remuneration of those who ofskills, knowledge and experience of the Board and makes reportdirectly to him and also of other senior executives.
No recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes that are ExecutiveDirector or employee is present or takes part in discussions deemed desirable.
The Committee also reviews succession planning inrespect of matters relating directly to their own remuneration.
toensure that processes and plans are in place with regard to both Board and senior appointments.
Further details on remuneration issues are given on pages 53 to 61.
The appointment of a Director is a matter for resolution by the Board Main principle as a whole, taking advice from the Nominations Committee.
The Board should present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
For Board appointments, the Nominations Committee has used the services of the executive recruitment consultants Odgers Berndtson.
Audit Committee Details of potential candidates are provided by the consultants and Andrew Dougal, Chairman initially reviewed by a sub-committee of the Nominations Committee.
Philip Green Meetings with selected candidates are then held with the Directors.
Steven Mogford Subsequently, the Nominations Committee meets to recommend an Vanda Murray appointment, which is then proposed to the Board for approval.
The Audit Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive The fees of Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a Directors.
All members of the Audit Committee have recent and whole, taking into account the commitment required and participation relevant financial experience.
Appointments to the Committee are in the work of committees and other advisory services in relation to made by the Board.
the business of the Group.
In advising the Board on such fees, it is the policy of the Executive Directors to seek independent external advice Andrew Dougal is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants concerning the appropriateness of the amounts by comparison with of Scotland and is a member of its Council and Chair of its Technical general practice.
The level of fees currently payable to the NonPolicy Board.
He was appointed to theAudit Committee in October Executive Directors is based on independent external advice.
Andrew was Chief Executive of Hanson plc, theinternational building materials company, after its demerger from Hanson, the The remuneration of the Directors is dealt with in the Remuneration Anglo-American diversified industrial group, where he was Finance report on pages 53 to 61.
Andrew is Chairman of the Audit Committee of Creston plc and a member of the Premier Farnell plc Audit Committee.
He has Board Diversity previously been Audit Committee Chairman at Taylor Wimpey plc Carillion recognises the importance of gender diversity throughout and Taylor Woodrow plc.
Currently, one of Carillions seven Board members is female.
The Board aims to have a broad range of skills, backgrounds Philip Green was appointed to the Audit Committee in June 2011. and experience.
While Carillion will continue to follow a policy of Philip was Chief Executive of United Utilities Group plc from 2006 ensuring that the best people are appointed for the relevant roles, to2011.
His earlier business experience includes serving as Chief thebenefits of greater diversity are recognised and will continue to Executive of Royal P&O Nedloyd and Chief Operating Officer at betaken account of when considering any particular appointment.
Steve Mogford was appointed to the Audit Committee in September 2006.
Steve is Chief Executive Officer of United Utilities.
Prior to this appointment, Steve was Chief Executive of Selex Galileo.
49 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Integrity Committee Directors are provided with a comprehensive information pack on Philip Rogerson, Chairman joining the Company and are advised of their legal and other duties Andrew Dougal and obligations as a director of a listed company.
In addition, all new Philip Green Directors receive induction on their appointment covering such matters Steven Mogford as the operation and activities of the Group, the role of the Board and Vanda Murray the Companys corporate governance procedures.
Directors are also briefed by the Companys external advisers, where appropriate, on The Committee reviews and oversees the implementation of the changes to legislation or regulation or market practice as well as Groups Ethics and Business Integrity Policy, monitors the Groups receiving briefings from business units throughout the year.
compliance with relevant legislation such as the Bribery Act 2010 and the Competition Act 2006, ensures that the Groups communication The regular updating of Directors skills and knowledge is encouraged, and training programmes on ethics and business integrity are effective including in relation to environmental, sustainability and governance in reinforcing ethical values and good practice, and reviews the policies matters, and a procedure has been established whereby the Company and practice in respect of business ethics and integrity in relation to Secretary is notified by Directors of their requirements in this respect.
the commencement of operations in any new country or territory in Training for Directors is kept under review during the year.
which the Company has not previously operated.
Relations with shareholders The terms of reference of the Remuneration, Audit, Nominations andBusiness Integrity Committees can be found on the Companys Main principle website www.
com There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The Board as a whole has responsibility Other Board matters for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
Policy on external appointments Recognising that external appointments can broaden experience and The Board should use the AGM to communicate with investors and to knowledge and so be of benefit to the Company, Executive Directors encourage their participation.
are permitted, at the discretion of the Board, to accept a limited number of such appointments and retain the fees received for In addition to communicating with shareholders generally from time suchappointments.
totime, the Executive Directors and the Director of Group Corporate Affairs meet regularly with representatives of major shareholders in Richard Adam is a Non-Executive Director of Zattikka plc.
order to foster the mutual understanding of objectives.
Meetings are also held with other shareholders and prospective shareholders.
The Re-election of Directors details of these meetings are reported to the Board.
The Chairman and In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are available for meetings Directorswill submit themselves for re-election at the Annual with representatives of major shareholders as required.
GeneralMeeting to be held on 1 May 2013.
All have been subject toformal performance evaluation and are effective members of the The Chairman and Company Secretary have also met with major Board who are committed to the role and to the time required for shareholders and fund managers to discuss governance matters.
Board and, where applicable, Committee meetings and any other duties required of them.
Private and institutional shareholders are encouraged to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The service contracts of the Executive Directors and the letters ofappointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for The Company complies fully with the provisions of the UK Corporate inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal Governance Code in respect of the notice, content of agenda and business hours on any weekday bank holidays excepted and at conduct of its Annual General Meetings.
The Chairmen of all the theAnnual General Meeting.
BoardCommittees will be present at the Annual General Meeting on1May 2013 to respond to shareholders questions.
Induction and development of Directors Main principle All Directors should receive induction on joining the Board and shouldregularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
The Board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in aform and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Financial statements Governance Our performance About us 50 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance report continued The Committee is authorised by the Board to i seek any information Report of the Audit Committee necessary to fulfil its duties, ii call any member of staff to be questioned at a meeting of the Committee as and when required and Dear Shareholder, iii obtain independent legal, accounting or other professional advice, at the Companys expense, which might be necessary for the fulfilment The role of the Audit Committee is to review and report to the of its duties.
Boardon the Groups financial reporting, internal control and risk management processes and the independence and effectiveness of The internal audit function is undertaken by Deloitte LLP.
Main activities of the Audit Committee in the year to The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and in 31December 2012 2012, they were reviewed and updated in the light of the publication The Audit Committee met on four occasions in 2012 and primarily by the Financial Reporting Council of the revised UK Corporate dealt with the following matters: Governance Code September 2012.
As a consequence, the terms ofreference were updated to address the following key areas: review of the full year and interim results and interim management statements including consideration of key annual report and financial statements taken as a whole to be accounting judgements and the Carillion plc non-consolidated fair, balanced and understandable profit and loss account greater disclosure around audit committee activities review and consideration of the reports from the external auditor, external audit tenders and KPMG Audit Plc, including reports on the 2011 full year and 2012 boardroom diversity.
interim results and making recommendations to the Board on an appropriate management representation letter to KPMG Audit Plc The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available at the basis for preparing the financial statements on a going www.
com or from the Company Secretary.
concern basis including consideration of concerns faced as part ofthe Sharman Inquiry The following report details the Committees responsibilities and key review and consideration of reports from the internal auditor tasks in 2012 which I trust shareholders and others will find useful.
review and agreement of both external and internal audit plans and peer review plans evaluation of the external audit functions reappointment of the external auditor and agreement of KPMG Audit Plcs fees for statutory and non-statutory audit activities evaluation of the internal audit function review of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Andrew Dougal and the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules and Disclosure Chairman of the Audit Committee and Transparency Rules 27 February 2013 selectivity and risk management annual evaluation of the performance of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee has in attendance at meetings, by invitation of and the annual review of its terms of reference.
the Committee, the Chairman, Executive Directors, representatives of the external auditors KPMG Audit Plc, the Group Head of Risk and In addition, the Audit Committee met with the Head of Internal the Head of Internal Audit.
It is also able to invite others as it requires Audit and separately, KPMG Audit Plc without others present.
The Committee also meets privately with both the external and internal auditors.
With regard to the evaluation of the external audit function, the Committee recommended to the Board the reappointment of KPMG The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: Audit Plc as auditor and for it to be put to shareholders at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
KPMG Audit Plc were appointed the the review of the integrity of the Companys financial statements, Companys auditor in 1999. including its annual and half-yearly reports, interim management statements and any other formal announcement relating to its The members of the Committee receive fees as Non-Executive financial performance, together with significant financial Directors which also reflect their membership of the Audit Committee reporting issues and any judgements which they contain and other Board committees.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee consideration of the impact of changes to accounting regulations receives an additional fee for this role.
Details of remuneration are and the financial and accounting policies of the Carillion Group given on page 60. compliance with statutory and other external requirements reviewing the role and effectiveness of the internal audit function Internal controls and the results ofits audit work and the response of management reviewing the scope and results of the external audit and its Main principle cost-effectiveness The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the ensuring that the internal and external audit functions are significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
complementary The board should maintain sound risk management and internal monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external control systems.
auditors and ensuring that the services provided including non-audit services provide a proper balance between objectivity The Board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for and value for money considering how they should apply the corporate reporting and risk recommending to the Board, the appointment, reappointment management and internal control principles and for maintaining an and removal of the external auditor.
appropriate relationship with the Companys auditors.
51 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal Risk management control.
This responsibility includes clearly determining the control The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that the Groups environment and reviewing annually the effectiveness of the internal systems for risk management are appropriate and operating effectively.
However, such a system can provide only reasonable However, such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors Internal The Group Head of Risk is responsible for advising on strategic risk Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Board issues across the Group, and for oversight of risk training.
The Group confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating Head of Risk is also responsible for carrying out an independent and managing the significant risks both financial and non-financial appraisal of all projects before submission to the Major Projects and including Corporate Social Responsibility risks faced by the Committee see below.
This appraisal ensures that the differentiating Group including joint ventures and overseas businesses.
The process factors of the Groups offer have been properly identified, thus has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of maximising the opportunities available: it also involvesensuring approvalof the Annual Report and Accounts and is regularly thatallinherent and residual risks associated withtheproject reviewedby the Board.
havebeen properly identified and considered.
Assurance over the design and operation of internal controls across Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of theGroup is provided through a combination of techniques: significant risks applicable to its areas of business together with the design, operation and monitoring of suitable internal controls.
These Internal Audit carries out audits to assess the adequacy and risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a effectiveness of internal controls over the key risks faced by the variety of internal or external sources, including control breakdowns, business and reports its findings to management, the Executive disruption in information systems, competition, corporate social Directors and the Audit Committee.
The Audit Plan is presented responsibility, natural catastrophes and regulatory requirements.
to and approved by the Audit Committee annually Management is supported in this process by a system of peer reviews, recommendations to improve the system of control are made by under which the performance of individual contracts is reviewed by Internal Audit.
The implementation of these recommendations is experienced teams.
Management is also responsible for timely and followed up and reported on quarterly accurate reporting of business performance and for ensuring Internal Audit independently reviews the risk identification compliance with the policies set by the Board in its areas of business.
procedures and control processes implemented by management Regular performance review meetings are held where management a process of Control Risk Self-Assessment is used in the Group reports to the Executive Directors on business performance, risk and where Directors and senior managers are required to detail and internal control matters.
The results of these meetings are presented certify controls in operation to ensure the control environment in tothe Board.
their business areas is appropriate.
They also confirm annually, in writing, that risk management processes and appropriate controls The Major Projects Committee, a committee of the Board, acts as the are in place and are operating effectively sanctioning body for major commitments and transactions including Internal Audit advises on aspects of the design and application of capital expenditure, major contracts and company and business internal controls in key business projects and on policy and acquisitions and disposals.
This Committee has delegated authority procedure changes.
upto specified levels of risk as determined by a risk assessment matrix, beyond which Board approval is required.
Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
TheAudit Committee reviews the assurance procedures and ensures In addition, practical guidance for all staff is maintained in Group that the level of confidence required by the Board is obtained.
It policy and procedure documents regarding the authorisation levels alsoensures the financial reporting process is credible and reliable.
forcommitments, contract selectivity and bidding, the provision of TheAudit Committee presents its findings to the Board regularly guarantees and management accounting as well as reporting and andthe Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Audit resolution of suspected fraudulent activities.
The Board has a policy to prosecute individuals found to have Any significant internal control issues would be disclosed in this report.
defrauded the Company or its subsidiaries.
To minimise the occurrence On the basis of the assurances given in 2012, no disclosures in this of fraud, learning points for management are identified and action respect are required.
Financial statements Governance Our performance About us 52 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance report continued Assignments awarded to KPMG Audit Plc and its associates have been Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns about and are subject to controls by management that have been agreed by malpractice at the earliest possible stage and a confidential the Audit Committee so that audit independence is not compromised.
Whistleblowing hotline provided by an independent third Insummary, the procedures are: partyisavailable.
audit related services: as auditor this is the main area of work of A monthly report on issues raised on the Whistleblowing hotline KPMG Audit Plc and its associates.
If any additional accounting andsubsequent investigations is compiled by the Whistleblowing support is required then this is considered competitively andFraud Committee and forwarded to the Board.
tax consulting: in cases where they are best suited, Carillion usesKPMG Audit Plc and its associates but the Group also uses The Executive Directors report to the Board on material changes in other taxconsultancies thebusiness and the external environment that affect significant general and systems consulting: all significant consulting projects risks.
The Group Finance Director provides the Board with regular are subject to competitive tender.
financial information, which includes key performance indicators andasummary of risk.
These key performance indicators and risks Other than audit, the Group Finance Director is required to give arelisted in the Group Chief Executives review on pages 8 to 23. priorapproval of work carried out by KPMG Audit Plc and its Where areas for improvement are identified, the Board considers associates in excess of a predetermined threshold: part of this therecommendations made by both the Executive Directors and reviewisto determine that other potential providers of the services theAudit Committee.
Audit independence These controls provide the Audit Committee with adequate The Audit Committee and Board place great emphasis on the confidencein the independence of KPMG Audit Plc in their objectivity of the Groups auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, in their reportingontheaudit of the Group.
Health & safety and sustainability The KPMG Audit Plc Director is present at Audit Committee meetings A review of the Groups progress on Health & Safety is provided toensure full communication of matters relating to the audit.
intheGroup Chief Executives review on page 11 and the Groups Sustainability performance is contained in the Sustainability review The overall performance of the auditor is reviewed annually by the onpages 36 to 39.
Audit Committee, who take into account the views of management.
Feedback is then provided to senior members of KPMG Audit Plc unrelated to the audit.
This activity also forms part of KPMG Audit Plcsown system of quality control.
The Audit Committee also has discussions with the auditor, without management being present, onthe adequacy of controls and on any judgemental areas.
These Richard Tapp discussions have provedsatisfactory to date.
Secretary 27 February 2013 The scope of the forthcoming years audit is discussed in advance by the Audit Committee.
Audit fees are reviewed by the Audit Committee after discussions between the businesses and the local KPMG Audit Plc offices and are then referred to the Board for approval.
Rotation of Audit Directors responsibilities within KPMG Audit Plc is required bytheir professions ethical standards.
The current Audit Director responsible for the Carillion engagement is in his fourth year of signing the report.
Thereis also rotation of key members within the audit team.
