Corporate Governance Report Good governance is a cornerstone of a successful and sustainable company.
St. Jamess Place is committed to good corporate governance across the Group, for which the Board is accountable.
This report explains the approach the Company has taken to apply the principles and provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and corporate governance activities during 2012.
Corporate Governance Developments Shareholders will see that the usual format of the Remuneration Report on pages 65 to 83 has changed this year as the Board has sought to be an early adopter of the Governments draft legislation relating to remuneration reporting.
Where practical we have implemented a year early the various changes set out in the draft legislation, although as the old legislation has yet to be repealed, the remuneration report is considerably longer than in recent years.
However, we hope that shareholders will appreciate the clarity of the revised format and the additional disclosures we have made.
We have also adopted early some of the changes recommended by Charles Gregson the Financial Reporting Council relating to Audit Committee disclosures, more details of which are set out in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 58.
Succession Planning Building on the changes made in 2011, we were delighted to We will continue to strive to adopt best practice in relation to our welcome Baroness Wheatcroft to the Board in April.
Her Report and Accounts disclosures where it is practical to do so.
substantial business and media experience has further strengthened the wide range of skills on the Board, as well as increasing the Boards diversity.
During 2013 we plan to continue our policy of gradually refreshing the Board by the appointment of additional Nonexecutive Directors, provided that suitable candidates can be Charles Gregson identified by the Nomination Committee.
Chairman 27 February 2013 As regards the four Executive Directors, the Board do not anticipate the need for any changes in the immediate future to the existing successful team led by David Bellamy.
However, both the Board and the Nomination Committee keep succession planning under regular review, with a view to ensuring that senior managers are being developed appropriately and we have the right skills around the table to drive forward the continued success of the Group.
Board Effectiveness Review In 2012 we appointed Independent Audit once again to facilitate an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, largely to review whether the various changes made in 2011 following their last review had bedded in well and had enhanced the discussions around the Board table.
The findings of Independent Audit were positive and further detail on the review process and findings can be found on page 52.
50 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved St. Jamess Place is committed to high standards of corporate for it and its primary responsibilities include: governance and supports the principles set out in the Code.
The Listing Rules require UK listed companies to state whether they Determining the overall strategy of the Company: have complied with the provisions of the Code during the year.
Ensuring that the Companys operations are well managed and The Board considers that the Company has achieved compliance proper succession plans are in place: with all of the provisions of the Code throughout the financial Reviewing major transactions or initiatives proposed by the year, except in relation to the constitution of the Audit Executive Directors: Committee for the first three months of 2012, during which Implementing appropriate corporate governance procedures: Charles Gregson remained a member of the Audit Committee.
Periodically reviewing the results and operations of the Charles Gregson is considered by the Code to be nonCompany: independent, following his appointment as Chairman of the Ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained and Company in January 2012.
The membership of the Audit and adequate controls are in place to safeguard the assets of the other Committees was reviewed following the appointment of Company from fraud and other significant risks: BaronessWheatcroft to the Board in April 2012 and as a result, Identifying and managing risk: and Vivian Bazalgette replaced Charles Gregson on the Audit Deciding the Companys policy on charitable and Committee on 8 May 2012.
The Board considered that it was politicaldonations.
important for the continued effectiveness of the Audit Committee for Charles Gregson to remain a member of the Committee up Operational matters are delegated to management via the Boards until that time.
Details of how the Company has applied the Executive Committee, comprising the Executive Directors of the principles of the Code are set out in this report, other than the Board and internally referred to as the Executive Board.
The principles of the Code relating to remuneration, which are set out Executive Board is responsible for implementing the Groups in the Remuneration Report on page 66. business plan objectives, ensuring that the necessary resources are put in place to achieve those objectives and managing the Information relating to substantial shareholdings, restrictions on day-to-day operational activities of the Group.
voting rights, powers of the Directors, appointment of Directors and the authority to purchase own shares are disclosed within the A copy of the schedule of matters reserved for the Board and the Directors Report on pages 46 to 49.
The fundamental elements terms of reference of the Executive Board can be found on the of the Companys business model are set out within the Business corporate website at www.
The Company maintains a Board Control Manual which sets out the primary policy and decision-making mechanisms within the The Board Company.
The manual includes the terms of reference for the The Board is responsible for providing entrepreneurial leadership various sub-committees of the Board, the Companys risk policies and direction to the Company and agrees the Companys strategic and risk appetite statement.
In addition, detailed job descriptions aims, vision and values.
The Board also aims to ensure that for each Executive is included, as well as a general job description adequate controls are in place and the necessary financial and outlining the responsibilities of the Non-executive Directors.
The human resources to deliver value to shareholders and the wider Board Control Manual is updated by the Company Secretary and community of individuals and organisations which benefit from the approved by the Audit Committee on an annual basis.
There were six formal Board meetings during the year, plus a full The Roles of the Chairman and ChiefExecutive day Board Strategy meeting.
A table detailing the Directors The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the attendance at Board meetings can be found on page 53.
Board, CharlesGregson, and the Chief Executive, David Bellamy, are clearly defined and documented.
No single Director has In advance of each meeting, all members of the Board are unfettered powers of decision-making.
The Chairman is supplied with an agenda and pack containing reports and responsible for leadership of the Board and for ensuring the management information on current trading, operational issues, continued effectiveness of the Board and for setting its agenda compliance, risk, accounting and financial matters.
The Chairs of so that adequate time is available for substantive discussion on the various committees of the Board also report to the Board at strategic issues.
The Chairman also promotes effective each Board meeting and copies of committee meeting minutes communication between the Executive and Non-executive are included in Board packs, for information purposes.
Directors and with shareholders generally.
The Chief Executives primary responsibility is to manage the Company via the executive management team and implement the strategies adopted by the Board.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51 Corporate Governance Report continued The Senior Independent Director During the year, the Chairman and the Company Secretary put SarahBates is the Senior Independent Director, having succeeded in place an induction programme for Baroness Wheatcroft and MichaelSorkin in January 2012 following his retirement from the continuing professional development for all Directors, based on Board.
The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding board their individual requirements.
In addition, ad hoc training was for the Non-executive Directors and provides feedback to the set up in the year to deal with individual requests and the Chairman on his performance following the Board evaluation.
Non-executive Directors are able to attend seminars or Sarah is available to meet with shareholders on request and to conferences which they consider will assist them in carrying out ensure that the Board is aware of shareholder concerns not their duties.
Non-executive Directors are briefed on the views of resolved through the normal channels for investor major shareholders at Board meetings and have an opportunity to communication.
meet with shareholders, as necessary.
Directors are regularly updated on their duties and Directors and Directors Independence responsibilities and have access to the advice of the Company The Board currently consists of a Non-executive Chairman, four Secretary, as well as independent professional advice where Executive Directors, five independent Non-executive Directors needed in furtherance of their duties.
Further training is made and one non-independent Non-executive Director, being Steve available, as necessary, to ensure that the whole Board is kept Colsell, who was nominated by the Companys largest abreast of relevant developments such as regulatory changes shareholder, Lloyds Banking Group plc.
Biographical details of applicable to their roles.
Topical issues are addressed prior to all the Directors can be found on pages 44 and 45.
The terms Board meetings by way of a presentation from a member of the and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive Directors senior management team.
During 2012, the Company Secretary are available on request and will be available for inspection at and other senior executives updated the Board on an array of the Annual General Meeting.
pertinent topics, such as the changes being brought into force by the FSAs Retail Distribution Review, the Solvency II regime and CharlesGregson was appointed as Non-executive Chairman on the results of client and employee surveys.
1January2012, following the resignation of former Executive Chairman, Mike Wilson, who retired from the Board on 31December2011.
The Chairman was deemed independent on Board Evaluation appointment as a Non-executive Director in 2010.
Baroness The Board has committed to undertaking externally-led Wheatcroft joined the Board as an independent Non-executive evaluations every three years in accordance with the UK Corporate Director with effect from 2 April 2012.
Roger Walsom resigned Governance Code.
Following the externally led evaluation carried from the Board on 8 May 2012. out by Independent Audit Limited in 2011 the results of which were summarised in last years Report and Accounts it was The quality of individual Directors and the Boards overall decided to appoint Independent Audit to carry out a further more composition is a key contributor to the Boards effectiveness.
limited review in 2012, assessing the effectiveness of the various Committee membership is reviewed annually to ensure skills are changes made to the composition and operation of the Board and its refreshed over time.
The Board is satisfied that all Directors have committees since the review in 2011. sufficient time to devote to their roles.
Independent Audit Limited has not undertaken any other work When determining whether a Non-executive Director is for the Group, other than the Board evaluations in 2011 and independent, the Board considers each individual against the 2012, and carried out the 2012 review by undertaking criteria set out in the Code and also considers how they conduct confidential interviews with all the Directors and the Company themselves in Board meetings, including how they exercise Secretary.
The evaluation was designed to assess the quality of judgement and independent thinking.
Taking these factors into the Boards decision making and its overall contribution to, and account, the Board believes that all Non-executive Directors impact on, the long-term health and success of the Company, continued to demonstrate their independence throughout the year.
and its preparation for future challenges.
Induction and Continuing  The review indicated that, whilst the Board had undergone On joining the Board, an appropriate induction programme is set considerable change in the last year, these changes had been up to enable the new Director to meet senior management, handled smoothly and had improved the discussions, diversity understand the business and future strategy, the main risks and dynamics of the Board.
In addition, the new Chairman had potentially affecting the Group, visit office locations and speak adapted to his new role on the Board well, striking a good directly to Partners and staff around the country.
balance between allowing enough time for debate and discussion, whilst maintaining pace and momentum and ensuring each Director has the opportunity to contribute their views.
52 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information As part of the evaluation process, the Board was asked to comment on the skills and attributes needed by any new Non-executives to be recruited to the Board in the future, taking into account the skills and experience of the existing Non-executive Directors.
The results of this exercise have been discussed by the Nomination Committee and have assisted the drawing up of a job specification to be used by search consultants appointed to identify potential candidates to join the Board in due course.
The evaluation identified that the changes to the Board packs made at the start of 2012, including revised management information and key performance indicators, were universally welcomed by the Board.
Various suggestions were made to build on the data in certain areas and these changes are in the course of being implemented.
In addition, the format and timing of the Board Strategy Day is being reviewed.
As regards the various Committees of the Board, the evaluation did not identify any material issues given the well-established Committee process and standing agendas.
However, it was noted that the Remuneration Committee would need to review the structure of the Groups reporting on remuneration issues in light of the reforms recently announced by the Government in this area.
This process has now taken place, resulting in the revised format of the Remuneration Report set out on pages 65 to 83 of this document.
In addition, the Investment Committee is in the course of reviewing how it operates, given the increasing number of funds and fund managers within the Groups investment platform.
Finally, Independent Audit discussed with the Chairman any comments on the individual performance of members of the Board, with any comments on the Chairman being discussed with the Senior Independent Director.
These comments are discussed with the relevant Director at one-to-one meetings with the Chairman.
Board Committees There are five sub-committees of the Board: Audit, Investment, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk.
The membership and terms of reference of the committees are reviewed annually and the terms of reference are available on the corporate website www.
co. uk, or on request from the Company Secretary.
Biographical details for members of these Committees are set out on pages 44 and 45.
Attendance at Meetings The attendance by individual Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the year ended 31 December 2012 was as follows: i ii Board Risk Audit Remuneration Nomination Investment 6 meetings 4 meetings 5 meetings 3 meetings 4 meetings 10 meetings Sarah Bates 6 1 3 10 Vivian Bazalgette 6 3 3 2 10 David Bellamy 6 3 3 2 Steve Colsell 5 Iain Cornish 645 4 Andrew Croft 6 5 2 Ian Gascoigne 6 4 iii Charles Gregson 6 2 2 2 4 David Lamb 6 10 Mike Power 6 4 5 1 4 iv Roger Walsom 2 2 1 1 2 2 v Baroness Wheatcroft 4 4 3 3 1 1 1 i Baroness Wheatcroft was appointed to the Board 2 April 2012. ii Vivian Bazalgette was appointed to the Audit Committee on 8 May 2012. iii Charles Gregson ceased membership of the Audit Committee on 8 May 2012 and attended two further Audit Committee meetings in 2012 as an observer.
iv Roger Walsom ceased to be a member of the Risk and Remuneration Committees when he resigned from the Board on 8 May 2012. v Baroness Wheatcroft was appointed to the Risk and Remuneration Committees on 8 May 2012. vi Figures in brackets indicate where a Director has been invited by a Committee to attend the meeting, but is not a formal member of the Committee.
The Group Risk Director is invited to attend Board meetings throughout the year to present his Group Risk report.
He also attends Risk and Audit Committee meetings during the year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53 Corporate Governance Report continued Directors and Officers Indemnity andInsurance Relationship with Lloyds Banking Group plc The Company has taken out insurance covering Directors and The Company entered into a Relationship Agreement the officers against liabilities they may incur in their capacity as Agreement with Halifax Group plc in 2000, to regulate the Directors or officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
relationship between the two companies after the completion of a Partial Offer.
The Agreement was novated to HBOS plc, The Company has granted indemnities to all of its Directors and following the merger between Halifax and Bank of Scotland in Directors of subsidiary companies on terms consistent with the 2001.
On 16 January 2009, HBOS plc was acquired by Lloyds applicable statutory provisions.
Qualifying third party indemnity TSB Bank plc, which subsequently changed its name to Lloyds provisions for the purposes of section 234 of the Companies Act Banking Group plc LBG.
2006 were accordingly in force during the course of the financial year ended 31December 2012, and remain in force at the date of The principal purpose of the Agreement is to ensure the this report.
Company operates independently of LBG and to provide that the relationship between LBG and the Company will be conducted on an arms-length basis.
Under the Agreement, LBG has the Procedures to Deal with Directors Conflicts of Interest authority to appoint a number of directors to the Board and its Procedures have been approved by the Board to deal with committees and the number varies in relation to LBGs situations where a Director either has a conflict of interest, or shareholding in the Company.
LBG currently has the right to where a potential conflict of interest situation arises.
Under the appoint up to three Non-executive Directors to the Board procedure, the relevant Director must disclose to the Board the although, as at the date of this report, LBG has appointed one actual or potential conflict of interest for discussion by the other Non-executive Director, being Steve Colsell.
The Board will consider the potential conflict on its particular facts and decide whether to waive the potential conflict if it believes this to be in the best interests of the Company.
The process involves keeping detailed records and Board minutes in respect of authorisations granted by the Board and the scope of approvals given.
Conflict authorisations are reviewed annually by the Board.
Relations with Shareholders The Board maintains close relationships with institutional shareholders through dialogue and frequent meetings and the Chief Financial Officer provides feedback to the Board on any material topics raised by shareholders.
The Company also meets regularly with JPMorgan Cazenove and Bank of America Merrill Lynch joint brokers to the Group who facilitate meetings with investors and their representatives.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other Non-executive Directors are available for consultation with shareholders on request.
Board members receive copies of the latest analysts and brokers reports on the Company and attend shareholder and or analyst meetings from time to time.
Members of the Board will be available at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to answer shareholders questions on the Companys business and the activities of the Board and its committees.
54 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Report of the Nomination Committee Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Having the appropriate range of high calibre Directors on our Board is key to achieving success in the Groups strategic objectives, whilst helping to mitigate the regulatory and other risks faced by the Group.
This report provides details of the role of the Nomination Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
Committee Activities During 2012 As disclosed in last years Report and Accounts, the members of the Committee were actively involved during the start of 2012 in the search and selection process which led to the recommendation and appointment of Baroness Wheatcroft to the Board in April 2012.
Following an assessment of the skills and experience required for the Board going forward, the Nomination Committee began the search for potential Non-executives with the assistance of an external search agency, which has not undertaken any other work for the Group.
As a result, Committee members met a number of candidates prior to recommending the appointment of Baroness Wheatcroft to the Board.
Charles Gregson Succession Planning In terms of Non-executive succession, the Committee noted that Sarah Bates and Mike Power will have served in excess of eight and seven years respectively on the Board in 2013, so the Meetings and Membership Committee discussed during the year the attributes needed for The Nomination Committee comprises two independent Nonnew Non-executives to join the Board in due course.
An agency executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committee met four has been appointed to commence a search process for potential times during the year and the current members and attendees are: new Non-executive Directors NED to join the Board in 2013.
Members: Attendees: As regards Executive succession, the Committee discussed in Charles Gregson Chairman David Bellamy depth with the Chief Executive the succession plans in place for Mike Power each Executive on the Board and senior executives below the Iain Cornish Board, including the development being undertaken by the Executive team.
The Chief Executive was asked to update the Committee Role and Responsibilities succession plans for on going discussion by the Committee on a The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and regular basis.
nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
Prior to any appointment being made, the Nomination Board Diversity Committee evaluates the skills, knowledge and experience of The Board outlined its approach to diversity in the 2011 Report existing members of the Board and prepares a description of the and Accounts.
role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
The Nomination Committee uses the services of external search As regards the Executive team, the Committee noted that they consultancies to assist in finding suitable candidates from a wide have all been Directors of the Company or other group companies range of backgrounds.
for many years and there are no plans to change the Executive team in the short term.
Having said that, the Board acknowledges that Succession planning also forms a core remit of the Nomination diversity extends beyond the Boardroom and is committed to Committee, taking into account the challenges and opportunities developing the members of the senior management team below the facing the Company both now and in the future.
The Nomination Board so that, so far as possible, they are ready to join the Board as Committee regularly reviews succession plans with a view to part of a planned succession programme in due course.
Naturally, ensuring that appropriate successors have been identified for each the development programme for the Executives below the Board senior management role.
has diversity as one of its core principles, with the various elements of the programme being available to all senior employees, without reference to gender, race, religion or other discriminatory factors.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55 Corporate Governance Report continued Report of the Nomination Committee As regards the Non-executive team, the Nomination Committee will consider the particular skills needed for a replacement NED and draw up a job specification setting out the skills required, to assist any search firms appointed to find suitable candidates for the role.
The Board does not believe it would be appropriate to ask a search firm to narrow their search towards a particular gender, although the Board appreciates the importance of diversity in its widest sense.
All suitable candidates will be considered on merit, with the Nomination Committee recommending to the Board the person they consider to be the best suited to the role.
The Board agrees with the description used in the Financial Reporting Council FRC guidance on board effectiveness that boards should aim for diversity in psychological type and background, as well as gender.
In this way, the Board is more likely to consist of people from different backgrounds and skill sets so as to avoid any kind of group thinking and enhance constructive discussion and challenge at Board meetings.
As a result of the above, whilst the Board will seek to ensure that there is sufficient diversity in the wider sense on the Board at all times, as illustrated by the recent appointment of BaronessWheatcroft to the Board, it does not believe that setting a target for female representation is appropriate at this time.
Charles Gregson On behalf of the Nomination Committee 27 February 2013 56 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Report of the Remuneration Committee Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information In addition to reviewing the remuneration packages for the senior executives, the Committee has during the year engaged with the governments consultation process on remuneration reporting and, where practical, sought to adopt the proposed changes in this years Remuneration Report a year early.
This report, together with the Remuneration Report on page 65, summarises the Committees activities in 2012.
Committee Role and Responsibilities The Committee is responsible for determining the Companys broad policy for executive remuneration and the individual remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors, the Group Risk Director and other senior executives where applicable, including any executive whose total remuneration is expected to exceed the median total remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The Committee agrees at the start of the year the short term bonus and long-term incentive schemes for the Executive Directors, including any applicable performance conditions or metrics and then reviews the performance of individual Directors Sarah Bates and senior management against the objectives set by the Committee.
In the event of a Director leaving the Group, the Committee will review and determine the scope of any Meetings and Membership termination payment and severance terms.
The Committee is The Remuneration Committee comprises solely independent also responsible for selecting, appointing and setting the Terms Non-executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee met of Reference for any remuneration consultants who advise the three times during the year and the current members and Committee.
Currently, the Committee has appointed attendees are: independent consultants New Bridge Street to perform this role.
Members: Attendees: The terms of reference that set out the Remuneration Sarah Bates Chairman David Bellamy Committees role and authority can be found on the corporate Vivian Bazalgette Andrew Croft website at www.
A detailed report to shareholders from Baroness Wheatcroft the Remuneration Committee including a description of the Remuneration Committees activities during the year is contained Roger Walsom ceased to be a member of the Remuneration in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 65.
Committee following his resignation from the Board on 8 May 2012, at which point Baroness Wheatcroft joined the Committee.
David Bellamy and Andrew Croft are invited to attend part of the proceedings of the Committee, as and when appropriate, Sarah Bates to assist the Committee with its decision making.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee 27 February 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57 Corporate Governance Report continued Report of the Audit Committee The integrity of the Companys financial results and the effectiveness of its internal control systems are of utmost importance to the Directors, shareholders, clients and other stakeholders of the Company.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and monitoring of financial reporting and internal controls, by testing and challenging these areas and working in conjunction with management and the external and internal auditors as appropriate.
This report summarises the Committees activities in 2012.
Committee Role and Responsibilities The Audit Committee is responsible for: the accuracy and integrity of the Groups financial statements: reviewing the external auditors reports thereon: monitoring the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function: and ensuring the effectiveness of the systems of internal control.
This includes reviewing the Companys internal and external audit resource and examining any matters that relate to the financial affairs of the Company, monitoring the financial reporting process and advising the Board on the Companys interim and annual financial statements, its accounting policies and compliance with accounting standards.
The Committee also Iain Cornish assists the Board in ensuring that the financial and non-financial information supplied to shareholders provides a balanced assessment of the Companys position.
Meetings and Membership The Audit Committee met five times during the year and the Other duties include maintaining an appropriate relationship with current members and attendees of the Committee are: the external auditors, reviewing the nature and scope of the work performed by them and their responses to management.
Members: Attendees: Iain Cornish Chairman Steve Colsell The terms of reference that set out the Committees role and Mike Power Andrew Croft authority can be found on the corporate website at www.
Vivian Bazalgette Bill Tonks Group Risk Director Simon Risby Head of Internal Audit The following sections provide more detail on how the Committee fulfilled its role in these areas.
Iain Cornish replaced Mike Power as Chairman of the Committee on 8 May 2012 and Vivian Bazalgette joined the Committee Activities During 2012 Committee on the same date, in place of Charles Gregson.
The key activities of the Committee during 2012 were: Reviewing the annual and half yearly report and accounts, All members of the Audit Committee at the end of the year were including the external auditors reports and associated independent Non-executive Directors.
Charles Gregson remained announcements: and on the Audit Committee until May 2012, following his Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit appointment as Non-executive Chairman of the Company in function, including consideration of the Internal Audit plan.
He was replaced by Vivian Bazalgette on 8 May 2012.
Attendees at meetings during the year included the Chief Financial Officer, the Risk Director, the Head of Internal Audit and members of the Finance team, as well as representatives from the external auditors, .
Steve Colsell also attended meetings as the representative of Lloyds Banking Group.
The Board is satisfied that all members of the Audit Committee have the experience and qualifications to perform their roles, in particular that a majority of members have recent and relevant financial experience and expertise.
58 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Whilst reviewing the annual and half yearly report and accounts, External Auditor the Committee focussed on the following areas in particular: The Committee has responsibility for the work of the auditors The accounting principles, policies, assumptions and practices and during the year the annual review of the independence, adopted: effectiveness and objectivity of the external auditor was Judgements exercised in the production of the financial results conducted by senior management.
Based on this review, including the appropriateness of persistency assumptions, the the Committee concluded that the audit service of valuation of assets, and the IFRS adjustments relating to  LLP was fit for purpose and provided a deferred acquisition costs and deferred income reserve: robust evaluation of the risks underlying the Companys financial Consideration of how the future economic and regulatory statements.
The Committee is also satisfied, having considered developments may impact these judgements: the performance of  LLP during their Tax liabilities and deferred tax assets and liabilities: and period in office, that that they remain independent and objective.
Assumptions around the calculation of share option costs.
 LLP was appointed as the Companys external auditor in 2009 to harmonise the audit arrangements Throughout the year the Committee received regular updates with the Lloyds Banking Group.
Given the current relationship from the Head of Internal Audit in relation to progress against with Lloyds Banking Group, the Company considers that putting the internal audit plan and results from completed audits.
Audits the audit engagement out to tender is not necessary at present.
are risk-based and during 2012 covered key areas such as Having assessed the performance and independence of outsourced services, IT systems and processes in place to control  LLP as outlined above, the Committee advice.
In preparation for the year end reporting, the Internal recommends that  LLP be re-appointed Audit function also facilitated an overall review of the Companys as external auditor and a resolution will be put to shareholders at system of internal financial controls.
Other activities undertaken by the Committee during the year The Company has put in place a formal policy for the provision included a formal review of the risk schedules and reviews of the of non-audit services by the external auditor.
This policy aims Groups whistle-blowing and Bribery Act policies.
Committee to ensure that external auditor objectivity and independence is members also received updates from the chair of the Risk safeguarded and sets out the categories of non-audit services Committee, reports from the Audit Committee of St. Jamess which the external auditor is allowed to provide to the Group.
Place International plc the Irish-registered life company and The financial limit for non-audit related advice and consultancy presentations on various topics including Solvency II, a draft work by the external audit firm is 100,000 per year.
Non-audit Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA for St. Jamess Place assignments exceeding 25% of the audit fee, either individually UK plc and IT governance.
The Committee also reviewed the or cumulatively, must have the prior approval of the Audit control environment of the Companys key outsourced providers Committee.
Details of the amount paid to the external auditors in conjunction with the Risk Committee.
during the year for audit and non-audit related services are set out in the Notes to the Accounts on page 103.
Through the Board evaluation exercise explained more fully on page 52, the Committee reviewed its own performance against the responsibilities set out in its terms of reference, which assisted the Committee Chairman in determining any special Iain Cornish focus objectives for the coming year.
On behalf of the Audit Committee 27 February 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59 Corporate Governance Report continued Report of the Risk Committee Fostering a culture of effective risk identification and management is of utmost importance to the Group.
The Risk Committee assists the Board in providing leadership, direction and oversight of the Groups management of risk.
This report summarises the Committees key activities in 2012.
Committee Role and Responsibilities The Committees key oversight responsibilities include: Monitoring and encouraging a culture of effective risk identification and management throughout the Group: Continually reviewing the principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group, as referred to in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section of the Business Review on pages 31 and 32, and monitoring progress on specific mitigating actions: Undertaking an annual review of risk management arrangements: Reviewing relevant reports produced by the Groups Risk and Compliance functions: and Liaising with the Audit Committee and reporting to the Board Mike Power any material areas of concern or weakness identified.
Committee Activities During 2012 Meetings and Membership At each meeting during 2012 the Committee reviewed and The Risk Committee met four times during the year and the considered: current members and attendees are: The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group, as recorded within the Emerging, Topical and Corporate Risk Members Attendees schedules, and challenged the executive team about their Mike Power Chairman David Bellamy management of these risks: Iain Cornish Ian Gascoigne The corporate key risk indicator suite, which is aligned to the Baroness Wheatcroft Bill Tonks Group Risk Director Groups Risk Appetite Statement and corporate objectives.
The Committee contributed to and influenced the ongoing Baroness Wheatcroft joined the Committee on 8 May 2012, design and refinement of the key risk indicator suite during replacing Roger Walsom.
the year: and Minutes of the Risk Executive Committee meetings, where All members of the Risk Committee are independent Nonexecutive oversight is given to the appropriateness and executive Directors who have considerable financial and or observance of the Groups Risk Appetite and the application risk-based experience.
Attendees at meetings during the year also of the Groups risk management framework.
included the Compliance Officer, Head of Risk Management, the Corporate Actuary and a representative from Lloyds Banking During the year, the Committee also received regular updates Group, the Companys major shareholder.
from senior executives on risk identification and mitigation against the Groups corporate objectives and principal risks.
Both Mike Power and Iain Cornish share common membership These included presentations from: of the Audit Committee and the breadth of each Committees The Chief Investment Officer on the identification, oversight was further enhanced by joint Audit and Risk Committee management and mitigation of key risks facing the Groups presentation meetings held during July and October.
The terms of Investment Management Approach: reference setting out the Committees role and authority can be The Corporate Actuary on preparing for Solvency II and the found on the corporate website at www.
Own Risk and Solvency Assessment for the UK Life company: The Business Development Director on the product development process and the management of risks throughout this process: 60 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Executive Director for IT on IT governance, the IT risk schedule and the approach to risk management within the IT function: and The Executive Director for Compliance on the structure of Risk and Compliance in the field.
Throughout the year the Committee also received regular updates from the Group Risk Director and Head of Risk Management on emerging risk issues.
Both have direct access to the Chairman of the Risk Committee should the need arise.
The Committee also reviewed the Groups Risk Appetite Statement and Key Risk Indicator suite and recommended them for approval by the Board.
The annual Money Laundering Reporting Officers report was reviewed and approved by the Committee during the year.
The report included an examination of the governance framework, operation of systems and controls and training requirements in respect of anti-money laundering activities within the Group.
The Committee also discussed and approved the Risk Management Annual Report during the year, which set out the views of the Risk Division on how well the Group discharged its responsibilities under the FSAs risk management principles.
Mike Power On behalf of the Risk Committee 27 February 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61 Corporate Governance Report continued Report of the Investment Committee The cornerstone of the St. Jamess Place approach to investment management is the Investment Committee.
The objective of the Investment Committee is to generate consistently superior investment results over the medium term by selecting the best individuals within the appropriate investment companies.
Committee Activities During 2012 During the year, the Committee monitored the performance of the Groups Fund Managers and focused on specific manager issues as they arose.
Face-to-face reporting sessions were held with managers, which provided the Committee with an opportunity to evaluate and assess their investment philosophy and processes and question the individual fund managers on topical issues.
The Committee also considered the Investment Manager Report from Stamford Associates and brought about a number of changes and additions to the Investment Managers appointed by the Group.
Vivian Bazalgette Following a rigorous review and selection process, the Committee oversaw changes to the range of funds announced in April 2012, introducing three new fund managers to the Groups fund range Meetings and Membership and two new funds to be managed by existing managers on the The Investment Committee met ten times during the year.
The Committee also provided oversight on the The current members and attendees of the Committee are: introduction of the Defensive Portfolio which increased to eight the number of Example Portfolios available to clients.
Members Attendees Vivian Bazalgette Chairman Andrew Humphries Regular additional monitoring meetings ran throughout 2012.
Sarah Bates Chris Ralph More detail on the work of the Committee can be found in the Peter Dunscombe Report of the Investment Committee 2012, located on the David Lamb Companys website at www.
Win Robbins Win Robbins was appointed to the Investment Committee in September 2012.
Various members of the Companys investment Vivian Bazalgette support team were invited to attend meetings during the year and On behalf of the Investment Committee representatives from the Companys investment advisers, Stamford 27 February 2013 Associates, attended all meetings during the year.
AON Hewitt also attended one meeting in an investment advisory capacity.
Committee Role and Responsibilities The Committees main responsibilities include overseeing the Companys Investment Management Approach, monitoring the performance and suitability of the Groups range of independent Fund Managers, as well as ensuring that the Fund Managers follow the terms of their agreements with the Company.
Where necessary, the Committee will make recommendations in relation to the appointment or removal of Fund Managers and also considers any new funds which are to be made available to the Groups clients.
62 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Internal Control and Risk Management Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Board retains overall responsibility for the effectiveness This system of internal control is designed to ensure that the of the Groups system of risk management and internal control primary objectives of compliance with applicable laws and systems including, financial, operational and compliance regulation, effective and efficient operations, quality financial and controls.
The Audit and Risk Committees of the Board, along operational reporting and safeguarding of assets, are met.
with appropriately structured, staffed and qualified Internal Audit, Risk Management and Compliance functions support the When significant control issues have occurred, the Audit Committee Directors in the discharge of these responsibilities and oversee has received full and detailed reports from management and their outcome.
Internal Audit, including proposals for amending and strengthening the business systems involved in line with the Groups focus on The Group has fully complied with provision C. 2.1 of the UK continuous improvement.
Where appropriate, such issues have Corporate Governance Code throughout the financial year and been referred to the Board by the Chairman of the Audit up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Committee and the Group Risk Director for further discussion.
The Directors and senior managers of the Group are committed In establishing the system of internal control, the Directors have to maintaining a strong control culture within all business areas regard to the materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of risks and have processes for evaluating and managing the significant occurring and the cost of mitigating risks.
It is therefore designed risks faced by the Group.
Adherences to codes of conduct are to manage, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve required at all times and the Board actively promotes a culture business objectives and can provide only reasonable, not absolute of quality and integrity.
In addition to these ongoing procedures, assurance against material financial mis-statement or loss.
the Audit Committee conducts an annual review that considers the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal In the Boards view, the information it has received from control systems, including financial, operational and compliance.
entity-wide risk assessment, operational management, and the The review also includes the nature and scope of the ongoing reports issued by Internal Audit has been sufficient to enable it monitoring processes, including the effectiveness of the Internal to properly review the effectiveness of the Companys system of Audit function and the potential impact during the year on these internal control, in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance for processes from any changes to the risks that the Group faces.
The Group utilises a number of outsourced service providers to provide administration services.
These are detailed in formal contracts and their delivery is monitored by dedicated relationship managers against documented Service Level Agreements and Key Performance Indicators.
Each year the outsourced service providers are required to confirm and evidence the adequacy and effectiveness of their internal control framework as assessed against the requirements of the COSO Internal Control Integrated Framework.
They are also required to confirm that no material control issues have been identified in their operations over the course of the year.
The Company operates a multilayered framework of internal controls over its financial reporting processes.
The key elements of the framework comprise the documentation, performance and assessment of controls in key risk areas, monthly review and sign off of all financial accounting data submitted by outsourced service providers together with the results of all subsidiaries within the Group, and the formal review of the financial statements by senior management, for both individual companies within the Group as well as at the consolidated Group level.
In addition, the published financial statements of the Company and the Group are formally reviewed by the Audit Committee, with particular focus on key areas of judgement and accounting estimates.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63 Corporate Governance Report continued Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, In preparing the EEV supplementary information, the the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements Directors have: in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
prepared the supplementary information in accordance with the EEV Principles: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial identified and described the business covered by the EVM: statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors applied the EVM consistently to the covered business: have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with determined assumptions on a realistic basis, having regard to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted past, current and expected future experience and to any by the European Union, and the Parent Company financial relevant external data, and then applied them consistently: and statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally made estimates that are reasonable and consistent.
Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied of the corporate and financial information included on the that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for governing the preparation and dissemination of financial that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each are required to: of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in Board select suitable accounting policies and then apply them of Directors section of the Annual Report confirm that, to the consistently: best of their knowledge: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group: the Group and Parent Company financial statements the European Embedded Value EEV supplementary respectively: and information has been prepared in accordance with the prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis European Embedded Value principles issued in May 2004 by unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will the Chief Financial Officers Forum as supplemented by the continue in business.
Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005 the EEV Principles : and The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting the business review referenced to in the Directors Report records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys includes a fair review of the development and performance of transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the the business and the position of the Group, together with a financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS By order of the Board Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors have chosen to prepare supplementary information Hugh Gladman in accordance with the European Embedded Value Principles Company Secretary issued in May 2004 by the Chief Financial Officers Forum, as 27 February 2013 supplemented by the Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005 the EEV Principles.
When compliance with the EEV Principles is stated, those principles require the Directors to prepare supplementary information in accordance with the Embedded Value methodology EVM contained in the EEV Principles and to disclose and explain any non-compliance with the EEV Guidance included in the EEV Principles.
64 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
