124 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Board of directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 The Board is accountable for ensuring that, as a collective body, it has the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to perform its role effectively.
It provides leadership through oversight, review and by providing guidance whilst setting the strategic direction.
Corporate governance 125 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 international experience and member ofthe board of the 1.
Rudy Markham exemplary governance credentials.
Chairman Senior Independent Sir John was knighted in 2011 for Rudy has demonstrated excellent Sir John joined the Board in 2007 Non-Executive Director services to business and the chairmanship skills as Chairman asDeputy Chairman and was Rudy joined the Board in February voluntary sector.
Age 64. of the Audit Committee and as a appointed Chairman in 2009.
He is also Senior Independent result of his length of service and John is also chairman of Burberry Director.
Peter Sands commitment provides an in-depth Group plc and Experian plc and director of Legal and General Group Chief Executive knowledge of the Group that is between 2000 and 2006, he was Group Plc, AstraZeneca PLC and Peter was appointed Group Chief invaluable to the Board, the chief executive of GUS plc, having of United Parcel Service, Inc, the Executive in November 2006.
He Audit Committee, the Board joined the board in 1997.
He has a Operational Board of the Foreign joined the Board as Group Finance Risk Committee, the Nomination strong financial services and retailing and Commonwealth Of ce and Director in May 2002 and is based Committee and the Governance background and chairmanship non-executive chairman of inLondon.
Age 67. experience, and is committed to Moor elds Eye Hospital.
He is as Group Chief Executive he was supporting his local community also amember of the Supervisory responsible for Finance, Strategy, andhas a long-standing interest in Board of CSM.
Rudy was Risk and Technology and Operations.
For 10 years he was the previously financial director of Prior to joining Standard Chartered, chairman of the board of governors Unilever PLC and Unilever NV until Peter was a director with worldwide of Nottingham Trent University.
He joined Unilever consultants McKinsey &Company, has been a trustee of the Djanogly in 1968 and from 1989 to 1998 he where he worked extensively in the City Academy in Nottingham was based in East Asia, latterly as banking and technology sectors in since 1999, is Lord-Lieutenant of business group president North East a wide range of international markets.
Nottinghamshire, a fellow of the Asia based in Singapore.
He joined Peter is also lead non-executive Royal Society of Arts and has the board of Unilever as strategy and director of the board of the anhonorary doctorate from technology director and became a Department of Health.
member of the executive committee SirJohn brings extensive in May 1998.
He has also been a 126 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Board of directors continued 4.
Richard Delbridge Group Finance Director Group Executive Director Group Executive Director Non-Executive Director Richard was appointed Group Steve joined Standard Chartered Jaspal was appointed to the Board in Richard joined the Board inJanuary Finance Director in November asGroup Executive Director and January 2010 and is based in Hong 2010.
He is a non-executive director 2006, having joined the Board Chief Executive Of cer, Consumer Kong.
He joined Standard Chartered of University College London asa Group Executive Director in Banking in May 2008 and was in 1998 and has held senior positions Hospitals Foundation Trust.
He is responsible appointed to the Board in June in the Group such as Global Head he joined JP Morgan and was group for Finance, Group Corporate 2008.
He became the executive ofClient Relationships for comptroller and later managing Treasury, Risk, Group Strategy and sponsor for employee volunteering Wholesale Banking and Chief director of the London of ces.
Before his Executive Of cer forIndia.
Before In 1989, he was appointed director, Immediately prior to his appointment appointment at Standard Chartered joining Standard Chartered, Jaspal group finance, at Midland Bank plc, as Group Finance Director, Richard he spent 22 years with GE, most was with UBS Investment Banking.
later becoming group finance had been Group Executive Director recently as chairman and chief He began his career with Bank of director, HSBC Holdings plc.
for growth and governance across executive of cer of GE North East America in 1984and worked across In1996, Richard was appointed Africa, the Middle East, Pakistan, Asia.
He was also responsible treasury markets and consumer director and group chief financial Europe and the Americas.
Before forGEs acquisition and merger banking in India and Singapore.
of cer of National Westminster that he was Group Executive business in the Asia Pa ci c region Jaspal also leads Standard Bank Plc, a position he held until Director with responsibility for Risk, from 2004 and president of GE Chartereds award-winning work April 20 00.
Richards previous Group Special Assets Management Capital Asia from January 2001. ondiversity and inclusion.
Asc hair non-executive director positions and Legal and Compliance.
Before Prior to that, Steve was chief ofthe Groups Diversity and Inclusion include Tate & Lyle PLC, JP Morgan joining Standard Chartered, Richard executive of cer of GE Australia Council, he is responsible for the Cazenove, Fortis NV, Balfour Beatty was chief operating of cer, Barclays andNew Zealand.
He led the Groups strategy and programmes plc, Gallaher Group plc, Innogy Plc Private Clients and prior to that he establishment of GEs consumer designed to support employees, and Egg Plc.
He was a council was group financial controller at finance business in Asia in 1993 and customers and communities.
He is a member and treasurer of the Open Barclays PLC.
Richard was group was its managing director from 1994 board member of Vital Voices Global University for eight years until 2009. finance director of Woolwich PLC to 1998.
He is a member of YPO, Partnership in the US, a member of Richard brings with him banking and before the acquisition of Woolwich Global 50 and Visas senior client Presidents Group of The Business financial accounting knowledge.
Steve is based in Singapore.
Disability Forum in the UK and also Age 70. responsibilities included finance, Age 48. sits on the board of governors of strategy, investor relations, risk, XLRI School of Business & Human 10.
Jamie Dundas compliance and treasury.
Non-Executive Director isa non-executive director of Non-Executive Director Jamie became a member of 3iGroup plc and is a member Om was appointed to the Board 8.
Dr Louis Cheung theBoard in March 2004 and oftheGoverning Council of the in January 2013.
He is currently an Non-Executive Director ischairman of Jupiter Fund International Chamber of Commerce independent non-executive director Louis joined the Board in January Management plc.
Richard is chairman of Seeing of Hindustan Unilever Ltd. Oil and 2013.
He is currently the chief previously chief executive of the isBelieving, a Standard Chartered Natural Gas Corporation and Tata executive of cer of Boyu Capital UKproperty company MEPC community investment project that Consultancy Services.
He is also a Advisory Co. a China-focused and finance director of the Airport eliminates avoidable blindness for governor on the board of the Center private equity investment rm.
He is Authority Hong Kong.
He is deputy hundreds of thousands of individuals for Creative Leadership, a US also an independent non-executive president and former chairman and communities around the world.
non-pro t leadership development director of Fubon Financial Holding of Macmillan Cancer Support, the Age 55. organisation.
Until March 2011, Company and a fellow and council UKs largest cancer care charity Omwas chairman of the State Bank member of the Hong Kong and non-executive director of The Group, which includes the State Management Association.
He was Francis Crick Institute.
He began his Bank of India SBI, Indias largest with the Ping An Insurance Group career as a merchant banker with commercial bank.
In a career from 2000 to 2011 and became Morgan Grenfell, where he became spanning 38 years with SBI, Om group president in 2003 and deputy head of banking.
Jamie helda number of roles beginning executive director in 2006 after brings to the Board signi cant with the lead bank department, several senior roles, including highlevel experience in Hong Kong which pioneered financial inclusion.
Prior to joining and astrong background in banking, He led the project team that Ping An he was a global partner of including a deep understanding of pioneered SBIs technology McKinsey & Company and a leader the wholesale banking marketplace.
initiativein the 1990s, undertook in its Asia Paci c financial institutions Age 62. assignments at SBIs London and practice.
Louis is based in Hong Washington of ces and general Kong.
Age 49. management roles between 2004 and 2006.
He became managing director of SBI in 2006, culminating in his appointment as chairman in the same year.
Om has also served as chairman of the Indian Banks Association.
Mike Rees Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group Executive Director Margaret was appointed to the Val was appointed to the Board Ruth was appointed to the Mike was appointed to the Board in Board in November 2012.
Val is chairman Board inNovember 2003.
He is based in London is currently a member of the andnon-executive director of isa non-executive director of The and is Chief Executive Of cer, Financial Reporting Review PremierFarnell plc.
She is also Sage Group plc, a member of the Wholesale Banking.
Mike joined Panel and a member of the audit anon-executive director of the supervisory board of Arcadis NV, Standard Chartered in 1990 as the and risk committee of John Lewis LawnTennis Association and and until November 2012 she was Chief Financial Of cer for Global Partnership plc.
Margaret was a leadnon-executive director of the chairman of the board of trustees of Treasury then, in October 1994, he senior partner at Deloitte LLP and a Departmental Board at the Home the WRVS charity.
Previously Ruth was appointed Regional Treasurer in member of the rms executive and Of ce.
Val was formerly Chief was managing partner, Asia for the Singapore, responsible for the South board until May 2012, where she was Executive Of cer of BUPA, the international law rm Fresh elds East Asia Treasury businesses.
responsible forleading Deloittes independent health care company.
Bruckhaus Deringer, responsible In 2000, Mike was appointed Group response to the global European and She joined BUPA in 1996 and was forthe rms eight of ces in Asia Head of Global Markets.
In November UK regulatory environment and its appointed chief executive of cer between 1996 and 2003.
Prior to 2002, he was promoted to the new rm-wide quality and risk agenda.
in1998, stepping down in 2008. that, Ruth worked for Fresh elds role of Chief Executive Of cer, She is currently an advis er to Valwas formerly a non-executive in London and Singapore.
She Wholesale Banking, responsible for Deloittes CFO programme.
From director of the BBC, J Sainsbury plc, rstj oined Fresh elds in 1977 and all Commercial Banking products in 2002 to 2006, Margaret was chief BAA plc, Cable and Wireless became a partner in 1983.
Ruth addition to his responsibilities for financial of cer ofBAA plc and from Communications plc, Compass plc has signi cant expertise in Asia Global Markets products.
Mike is a 2000 to 2002, group finance director and XL Group plc.
She is a trustee and a deep understanding of the member of the International Advisory of Trinity Mirror plc.
Margaret was ofthe British Museum, has sat on regulatory environment.
Board of Mauritius and the Mayor of previously anon-executive director the board of the Association of Romes business advisory council.
and chair ofthe audit committee of British Insurers and was a member 16.
Whitbread PLC and a former of the Advisory Committee of Virgin Non-Executive Director member of the board and chair Group Holdings.
One of the UKs John joined the Board in October 18.
V. Shankar of the audit committee for the most internationally recognised 2008.
He is chairman of Standard Group Executive Director Confederation ofBritish Industry.
businesswomen, Val has a Life Investments Holdings and is Shankar joined the Board in January Age 58. highlevelknowledge of financial senior independent director of 2012.
Based in Dubai, he is Chief services and regulation, marketing Standard Life Plc.
He was appointed Executive Of cer, Europe, Middle 12.
Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE and customer service as well as senior advis er to Greenhill & Co. Inc. East, Africa and Americas.
He joined Non-Executive Director people management and corporate in April 2009 and was previously vice Standard Chartered in 2001 as Dr Han is a former prime minister strategy experience.
Age 62. chairman of JP Morgan Cazenove.
Group Head of Corporate Finance, of the Republic of Korea and joined He joined Cazenove in 1979, was was appointed Group Head of the Board in January 2010.
Simon Lowth appointed partner in 1986, and Origination and Client Coverage a distinguished political, diplomatic Non-Executive Director laterheaded corporate finance, in 2007 and promoted to his and administrative career serving as Simon joined the Board in May Cazenoves largest business.
Before joining deputy prime minister and minister of 2010.
He is an executive director Following Cazenoves merger Standard Chartered, Shankar was finance, foreign affairs, and industry and chief financial of cer of with JP Morgan in 2005, John was with Bank of America for 19 years.
and trade before serving as prime AstraZeneca PLC and formerly appointed vice chairman where his In addition to his responsibilities minister in 2008 and 2009.
He also finance director at Scottish Power responsibilities were predominantly at Standard Chartered, Shankar is served as Korean ambassador to PLC following twoyears as executive external facing, acting on behalf a non-executive director of Majid Al theUnited States, chief of staff to director, corporate strategy and of major clients and handling all Futtaim Holding LLC, a member thepresident, president of the development.
As finance director, aspects of the broking relationship.
of the board of the Inland Revenue th 56 Session of the United Nations Simon led Scottish Powers John brings a wealth of experience Authority of Singapore and the General Assembly, special envoy group-wide performance and risk inthe elds of corporate broking, boardo f trustees of SINDA.
He is ofthe UN Secretary-General on management processes and played financial advisory and institutional also a member of the Singapore Climate Change and chairman of a critical role in the strategic investor knowledge.
John was Governments National Integration the2009 OECD Ministerial Council transformation of Scottish Power.
He is currently on Simons move to Scottish Power in of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group the UN Secretary-Generals Advisory 2003 followed 15 years experience plc.
He has a deep understanding of Board on Water and Sanitation, with the global management financial markets and the corporate is the founding chair of the consultancy, McKinsey & Company, sector.
High-Level Expert Panel on Water latterly as a senior director and Di saster UNSGAB, as well as responsible for the rms UK thefounding chairman of the Global industrial practice where he advised Green Growth Institute and chairman leading multi national companies on of the International Advisory Board of a wide range of strategic, financial the International Finance Forum of and operational issues.
Dr Han is based in Korea and brings with him valuable knowledge of Asia and economics.
128 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Board of directors continued 19.
Annemarie Durbin Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group Company Secretary Paul was appointed to the Board Lars was appointed to the Board Annemarie joined Standard inNovember 2003.
He is chairman in November 2012.
He is currently Chartered in 1995.
She has held ofInfrastructure UK, a division a director of Kosmos Energy and senior roles in Wholesale Banking, ofHMTreasury.
Paul is also a a non-executive director and vice including Head of Financial non-executive director of the Tetra chairman of Sithe Global LLP, an Institutions for Europe and Africa, Laval Group and LAir Liquide SA.
international power development and had global responsibility for Inaddition, Paul is a member of the company.
He is also an advisor to the Development Organisation public interest body of PwC.
He was the board of ACE Insurance Group, client segment.
Annemarie has held chairman of Rio Tinto Plc from 2003 senior advis er to the Center for Consumer Banking head roles in the to 2009 and was formerly a director Strategic and International Studies, Philippines and Thailand and ha s of The Shell Transport and Trading aUS foreign policy think tank, and been Chief Executive Of cer in both Company plc and group managing a board member of the Middle East countries.
Since returning to the director of the Royal Dutch Shell Investment Initiative, an independent UK in 2006, Annemarie has held a Group of companies, where he was non-pro t organisation.
Until June number of group support function chief executive of cer of its global oil 2012, Lars was chief executive roles including Head of Resourcing products business.
He worked for of cer and executive vice president and Reward within Human Shell for 37 years in the UK, Greece, of the International Finance Resources and Group Head Nigeria, New Zealand and Norway.
Corporation IFC, a member of ofCorporate Affairs.
Annemarie Paul was a UK business ambassador theWorld Bank Group.
In this role, wasappointed Group Company over the period 2008 to 2012.
He also Lars led the IFCs overall strategic Secretary and Group Head of served as a member of the Defence direction in its mission to promote Secretariat in 2007.
In February Board of the Ministry of Defence and sustainable private sector 2012this role expanded to cover as chairman of the Commonwealth development.
From 1997 to 2005, theGroups Corporate Real Estate Business Council.
Lars was chief executive of cer of Services function.
With effect from SEB, Swedens leading corporate 1 April 2013 she will also assume 20.
From 1994 to 1997 he administrative oversight of the Non-Executive Director waschief executive of cer of Groups Internal Audit function.
Oliver joined the Board in June 2004.
Trygg-Hansa and from 1992 to Annemarie is a non-executive He is chairman of Stanhope Group 1994, president and chief executive director of WH Smith PLC, is a Holdings Limited, the MCC and the of cerof Securum.
His previous quali ed lawyer and has an MSc trustees of the Natural History non-executive directorships include inexecutive coaching.
Museum and of the board of trustees Statoil AS Norway, AkzoNobel N. V. of CARE International UK.
Previously Netherlands, Nobel Biotech, SCA, Oliver was chairman of Home Retail Astra AB and chairman of the Group plc, Oval Limited, deputy Swedish Bankers Association.
chairman of 3i Group plc and was Age 64. group finance director at Barclays PLC until September 1999.
He joined Barclays Merchant Bank in 1979 as head of corporate finance and became managing director in 1984.
He joined the Board of BZW at its inception, later becoming finance director.
He started his career with Arthur Andersen and later joined N MRothschild, where he became a director in corporate finance.
Olivers financial, banking and international experience makes him a valuable contributor to the Board.
