130 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance High standards of corporate governance are a key  success of a company Dear Shareholder Over the course of 2012, despite challenging circumstances, we have endeavoured to hold true to our values and to the spirit of Here for good.
We continue to take a longterm view, striving to do the right thing for our stakeholders through both stable and dif cult times.
We recognise that our strong culture and values are now even more important than previously.
In 2012, we launched the Chairmans Here for good Awards, which were designed to recognise Standard Chartered employees who live and breathe our brand promise, Here for good.
This Award recognises individuals and teams who deliver on our brand promise through their decisions, actions and behaviour.
They reward those who have demonstrated a commitment to working together to build long-term relationships with clients, customers and each other.
These are the people who embody our brand promise and serve as inspiring role models for the rest of us.
Our brand promise captures our genuine commitment to our clients and customers, our staff and the communities in which we operate.
Reaf rming the fundamental role that banks play in society through helping companies set up, expand and trade, helping people buy homes and grow their wealth is essential Sir John Peace in rebuilding trust in the industry, and ensuring that regulatory reform enables banks to support economies as they grow Chairman andd evelop.
In 2012, Standard Chartered entered into settlement agreements E ffective governance is achieved through 1 relating to US sanctions compliance with the US authorities acombination of strong processes, over the period 2001 to 2007.
Further details regarding this are underpinned by the right values and culture.
As you would expect, during the year, the Board devoted signi cant time and focus on this matter.
We believe that the Board acted in the best interests of shareholders and other stakeholders by reaching settlements with each of the relevant US authorities.
In discussions with major shareholders and shareholder bodies, their feedback supported this view and several have commented on the strength and cohesiveness of the Board throughout this time.
1 The US authorities comprise The New York Department of Financial Services DFS, the Of ce of Foreign Assets Control OFAC, the New York County District Attorneys Of ce DANY, the United States Department of Justice DOJ and the Federal Reserve NYFED Corporate governance 131 In last years report, we outlined our multi-year Board succession plan.
We have taken a long-term, strategic, forward-looking approach to refreshing the Board, balancing our need both to maintain longevity and stability on the Board whilst regularly refreshing its composition.
As part of this plan, during 2012 weannounced the appointment of four new independent non-executive directors: Om Bhatt, Louis Cheung, Margaret Ewing and Lars Thunell.
This first phase of appointments has added signi cant banking, financial and risk management experience to the Board, as well as increasing its diversity.
The new independent non-executive directors bring with them a wealth of experience from some of our largest markets including India, Hong Kong, China and Taiwan.
With these appointments, we are balancing the need to maintain a core of directors with longstanding and deep knowledge of the Group alongside new directors who bring fresh perspectives and diverse experiences to the Board.
Throughout the transition period, we are mindful to ensure that the overall Board size remains at an effective and manageable level although we recognise that it is likely to be slightly larger than usual over the next two years.
The Board would like to thank Val Gooding and Richard Delbridge who will both be stepping down from the Board with effect from 1 May 2013.
They have each made a valuable contribution to the Board over the past eight and three years respectively.
As part of our ongoing succession planning, Rudy Markham will be stepping down from the Board by our May 2014 Annual General Meeting.
In 2012, we refreshed our Group philosophy on diversity and inclusion making it clear that this applied throughout the organisation, including at Board level.
We appreciate and encourage diversity and inclusion in all its forms, including gender, age and ethnicity underpinned by a strong ethos of meritocracy.
It is important that our employees and leadership teams are representative of our markets, stakeholders and client pro le.
Although not in favour of quotas, in formulating ourB oard succession plan we have been mindful to ensure that we continue to enhance the Boards diversity through future appointments.
Sir John Peace Chairman 5 March 2013 132 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued It does have a formal schedule of matters reserved for its own High standards of corporate governance are a key contributor to the long-term success of a company, creating trust and decision that are available together with the board committees engagement between the company and its stakeholders.
Striving terms of reference at www.
com to deliver exemplary governance is a core aspect of the Groups We believe in the importance of having a unitary board, with broad strategic intent.
We have clear, wellunderstood governance representation from executives who represent the key aspects of policies, procedures and practices throughout the Group.
the business and markets in which we operate.
We believe that this However, we recognise that this alone is not suf cient to ensure allows shareholders to have direct line of sight to these executives effective governance.
Effective governance is achieved through and that there is greater accountability for these individuals as a combination of strong processes, underpinned by the right directors distinct from their executive responsibilities.
These must be embedded across the Group During the majority of 2012, we had 17 members on our Board.
through the behaviours displayed by our employees every day.
Given our philosophy on executive representation and the For many years, we have measured and rewarded performance complexity of international banking, we believe that a board both in terms of what employees achieve and the values they sizeo f 16 to 18 is optimal.
This allows us to have a spread of display.
We believe this makes a difference to how well our independent non-executive directors on the Board displaying culture and values are embedded across the Group.
the necessary skills, expertise, experience and knowledge matched to the Groups current and anticipated strategic Our approach to corporate governance disclosures direction.
It also allows for a core of independent non-executive We aim for the highest standards of corporate governance directors with suf cient time commitment to devote to the Board and apply the provisions of the UK Corporate Code the Code and its committees both in stable and dif cult times and for and the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code as set out in individuals who offer a broad range of diverse perspectives Appendix 14 of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Listing Rules including through geographic or gender diversity lenses.
Throughout this Corporate governance section we have provided a narrative statement as to how the We have made a conscious decision as part of our multi-year principles as set out in the HK Listing Rules have been applied succession plan see next section to allow uctuation in our to enable evaluation of their application.
Copies of the Code and Board size during the transition period.
In November 2012, the the H K Listing Rules can be found at www.
uk corporate appointment of Margaret Ewing and Lars Thunell increased the ukcgcode and www.
hk eng rulesreg listrules size of our Board to 19, and it was increased again in January mbrules documents appendix 14. pdf respectively.
2013 with the appointment of Om Bhatt and Louis Cheung.
This has brought the total size of our Board to 21: the Chairman, six The directors con rm that, throughout the year, the Company executive directors and 14 independent non-executive directors.
has complied with the Code set out in the Corporate However, Richard Delbridge and Val Gooding will step down from Governance Code contained in Appendix 14 of the HK Listing our Board with effect from 1May 2013, meaning that the Board Rules.
Speci cally, the Company complied with the Code will revert to 19 members from that date.
A list of individual provisions of the previous Appendix 14 during the period from directors and their biographies are set out on pages 124 to 12 8.
1January 2012 to 31 March 2012 and the Code provisions Details of board committee membership are set out on page 141 oftherevised Appendix 14 during the period 1 April 2012 to of this report.
The directors also con rm that the We continuously refresh our Board membership to ensure that it announcements of these results have been reviewed by the Companys Audit Committee.
Since 2005, 16 directors have joined our Board and, by May 2013, 12 directors will have left the Board.
For a number of years, we have adopted an open, informal and discursive approach to corporate governance reporting.
This Delivery of the first phase of our multi-year approach has been recognised in the ICSA Hermes Boardsuccession plan Transparency in Governance awards for the last two years, being For the past two years we have focused heavily on the future granted the award for the Best FTSE100 Annual Report for our nature, shape and composition of the Board to 2016 and 2010 Annual Report and shortlisted for the award for the Best beyond, putting in place a multi-year succession plan that FTSE100 Board Disclosure for our 2011 Annual Report.
we believe will maintain the Boards current high level of effectiveness.
As part of this plan there have been several Who is on our Board changes to the Boards composition.
Margaret Ewing and The Board is responsible for providing leadership through Lars Thunell joined our Board as independent non-executive oversight, review and by providing guidance whilst setting the directors with effect from 1November 2012.
Margaret brings strategic direction and delivering value to shareholders and other accounting, finance, risk and regulatory development stakeholders over the longerterm.
The Board is accountable for experience to the Board.
As a career banker, Lars has a wealth ensuring that, as a collective body, it has the appropriate skills, of financial services and banking experience.
Om Bhatt and knowledge and experience to perform its role effectively.
Louis Cheung joined our Board as independent non-executive The Board is not involved in the Groups day-to-day operations.
Om has extensive Corporate governance 133 banking and financial services expertise, with deep knowledge External directorships and experience across India, one of our largest markets.
Louis The Boards executive directors are permitted to hold only has very strong general financial services and investor relations one independent non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 credentials, particularly in a Greater China context.
Details of the directors other directorships can be found in their biographies on pages 124 to 128.
We closely In January 2013 we announced that Richard Delbridge and monitor the outside business interests of the independent Val Gooding would be stepping down from the Board with non-executive directors.
Before taking on an additional role, effect from 1 May 2013.
Val and Richard have been independent both executive and independent non-executive directors will non-executive directors of the Company since 2005 and 2010 con rm that no con ict arises from that role and provide respectively and over this time they have both made an assurance that the appointment will have no adverse impact outstanding contribution to our Board.
on the ability to continue to ful l his her role as a director of the We are now moving into the second phase of this multi-year Company.
Committee chairs are particularly mindful of their board succession plan with a view to making more changes in obligations.
Whenever needed during the year, directors have 2014.
We have several relatively long-standing Board directors consistently demonstrated their ability to provide any additional on our Board, particularly those who chair our committees.
Given the complexity of international banking, the volatile macro economic environment, and the changing regulatory Re-election of directors landscape, we believe that it is important to retain a core of In line with the UK Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate directors with long-standing knowledge of Standard Chartered Governance Code, for the last two years we have adopted the throughout the Board transition period.
The intention is that, practice of proposing all of our directors for annual re-election following the transition, the overall size of the Board will return at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM, and will do to between 16 and 18 members.
All of the directors on the Board at the date of our AGM on 9May 2012 attended the AGM and were re-elected.
The Boards commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Having moved to annual re-election we have continued the Standard Chartered with its distinct footprint, rmly believes practice of rigorously reviewing all directors performance, and in the importance of diverse board membership.
Currently, this will be used as the basis for recommending re-election of we have a diverse mix of ethnicity, gender and experience on directors to shareholders.
Further details are provided on our Board including three women and six different nationalities.
There are nine directors who have lived and worked across Asia, Africa and or the Middle East.
Diversity lies at the heart of our Assessment of director independence values, and is a distinctive element of our brand.
We believe The Board is satis ed that all of our non-executive directors that all board appointments should be based on meritocracy areindependent.
As an integral part of the Boards multi-year and that diversity in all its aspects, including geographic succession plan, we have made a conscious decision to balance the appointment of four new directors with maintaining suf cient diversity, gender diversity, diversity of skills and experience amongst other strands, is important.
stability for the Board as a whole.
The Board had a discussion regarding the four directors who are reaching or have exceeded More broadly within Standard Chartered, our employees nineyear tenures on the Board: Rudy Markham, Ruth Markland, represent 127 nationalities.
W e believe that diversity, including Jamie Dundas and Paul Skinner.
The individuals concerned gender diversity, is a very important factor impacting the were recused from the conversation.
In relation to each relevant Groups performance and wider operational effectiveness.
individual, Board members identi ed numerous speci c examples Standard Chartered will continue to focus on the work that of how that individual had displayed independence of thought, mindset and judgment over the past year.
On that basis, and has been under way for some time to ensure that we continue to have an inclusive environment for our people, valuing our combined with the signi cant refresh of the Boards composition employees for who they are and what they bring to the Group.
that is under way the Board unanimously agreed that Rudy, We have achieved this through a number of programmes, Ruth, Jamie and Paul remained independent.
further details of which can be found in the People section on pages 22 to 25.
Directors securities transactions The Company con rms that it has adopted a code of conduct We will continue to focus on diversity in all its aspects in our regarding securities transactions by directors on terms no less succession planning.
During 2012, we refreshed our diversity exacting than required by Appendix 10 of the HK Listing Rules and inclusion philosophy, which applies throughout the Group, and that the directors of the Company have complied with this including at Board level.
Our approach to diversity does not code of conduct throughout the year.
involved quotas or positive discrimination.
Our philosophy and related initiatives support the Groups meritocratic, collaborative and performance-based culture.
Further details can be found in the People section on pages 22 to 25.
134 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued How the Board has spent its time In addition to attending the overseas Board meetings, Sir John At Standard Chartered, we believe that our open, challenging Peace, as Chairman visited Brazil, Hong Kong, Ghana, India, yet cohesive and collaborative culture whereby all directors have Malaysia, Singapore, Abu Dhabi, the USA and Taiwan, where he unfettered access to management and information has enabled met with clients, employees, shareholders, and regulators.
Other us to achieve high standards of corporate governance.
Our independent non-executive directors also undertook visits in independent non-executive directors travel extensively to our addition to scheduled overseas Board visits.
For example, Rudy markets and have the opportunity to validate our strategy and Markham visited India, Pakistan, Singapore and Colombia and gain an on-the-ground understanding of the opportunities and John Paynter visited Hong Kong and Bahrain.
To support this, it was notable that our During the year, the Board has covered a wide range of topics independent non-executive directors made 60 visits to countries across the external and competitive environment, speci c across our footprint in 2012 compared with 59 in 2011, 40 in business unit strategies and major geographical and regional 2010 and 23 in 2009. reviews.
In order to make space to focus heavily on these key strategic issues, the Board had consciously chosen to delegate During 2012, we estimate that each independent director spent at least 30 days on board related duties and for those who sat broad responsibilities to its committees.
The effective functioning of these committees is a critical element in the on multiple committees, up to 100 days or more.
Boards overall effectiveness and we describe the role of the The overseas Board visits in 2012 were to Shanghai, New York committees on pages 140 to 15 9. and Dubai, where comprehensive strategy reviews were undertaken.
As has been the case for previous overseas Board The diagram on page 135 gives an overview of how the Board visits, these visits enable our independent non-executive as a whole rather than the committees spent its time in 2012. directors to gain a better understanding of these markets and our operations.
Number of non-executives visiting our markets Number of independent non-executive directors visiting our markets China Germany 11 1 1 Hong USA 4 Kong Japan Bahrain 2 Dubai 11 4 1 1 13 Pakistan Bangladesh Jordan 2 Abu Dhabi 2 1 Taiwan 3 Thailand India 1 Qatar 3 2 Vietnam 1 2 Ghana Nigeria 1 10 Malaysia Colombia 1 1 Uganda 1 1 Indonesia Kenya Singapore 2 10 10 3 Brazil 2 1 Zambia 7 1 Australia 1 South Africa 1 2012 2012 2011 2011 Corporate governance R c i i n s o c k m l e u a m c d d t n i i n h t n d n t a a g g e i g t m e s e B o 5 2 r r l g i o v o e d n f a v e u r k r r o e a d B n p g a a e n n s d c e r S e t l a y a g k t i e e o t 135 How the Board spen t its time in 2012 Participated in community 3 activities as part of the Boards External environment overseas visits, including Seeing 1 Assessed the challenges is Believing, our community faced posed by some of our investment project that competitors and the implications eliminates avoidable blindness for the Group 5 Reviewed the major trends and future shape of the banking Risk and governance industry globally including Board and committee linkages Debated the developing macro economic environment Approved the Boards Risk with internal and external input Appetite Statement and satis ed itself that the 2013 budget is Considered the appropriate aligned to this responses to the key regulatory changes faced by the Group and Received assurance during the industry as a whole year that the Group continued to operate within its approved risk Explored the impact of the appetite changes in the external environment of our speci c Ensured key risk associated with business strategies and the each aspect of the strategy trajectory of the Group as a discussed at Board level were whole identi ed and discussed in an integrated fashion 4 Continued to focus on the Stakeholder relationships effective linkages between the investors, clients, Board and its committees customers, regulators Refreshed our approach to the andcommunities interfaces between the main Commissioned a survey to Board and the boards of our 1 Approved the fiveyear plan and gauge investor perception banking subsidiaries across our Strategy the 2013 budget undertaken by J. P. Morgan network Cazenove Held our annual two-day Assessed the strategic value and strategy offsite, including the importance of operating as One Engaged with our retail 6 implications for the long-term Bank and its future priorities and shareholders at the Annual People, culture and values sustainability and shape of our aspirations General Meeting Examined the key external client-cen tred business and Debated Consumer Bankings in uences that are shaping our organisational model 2 high value segments under the people agenda Discussed our strategy in key Budget and performance new umbrella High Value Client Discussed some of the key geographies and regions as part oversight Coverage HVCC and the value people challenges we face over of the Boards overseas visits created from collaboration and Maintained oversight of the the next five years and how our synergies across HVCC and with Reviewed our current Groups performance in line with thinking on people strategy is Wholesale Banking commodities business and market expectations evolving its future strategic direction, Engaged with key clients and Focused on key parts of the Discussed the importance of focusing on oil and gas, mining customers as part of theBoards Groups franchise where the ensuring the values and cultures and metals and agriculture overseas visits external environment and of the Group are embedded Focused on how the Group banking market have grown Discussed the quality of across the network, delegating keeps pace with technological more challenging regulatory relationships and met further oversight to the Brand change and innovation with regulators across the Group and Values Committee Periodically reviewed the Considered the Groups companys share price Focused on the settlement with Approved the appointment property portfolio and its future performance metrics, register the US Authorities of four new independent strategic priorities activity and institutional investor non-executive directors as Considered the findings of the and analyst perception part of our multi-year Board Approved the entry into new FSAs Advanced Risk Response succession plan geographical territories for the Reviewed the performance of Operating Framework ARROW Group, e. g. Myanmar and certain business segments and Continued to focus on the overall Approved the Groups Recovery Mozambique investments effectiveness of the Board and and Resolution Plan for individual directors Discussed key elements of our submission to the Financial inorganic strategy as part of our Services Authority Strategy Board meeting The full schedule of matters reserved for the Board together with the board committees terms of reference are available on www.
com 4 h a n r o s t l h S d i p e s r e r e s u n e t E l v u u x i l r c t a o e 6 3, v n e r l d n m p n a o e l a e n t P 136 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued 1 Settlements with the US authorities relating to Regular disclosures regarding the Review USsanctions compliance in the period 2001 to 2007 We have reported since 2010 that we were conducting the The Group takes its responsibilities very seriously, and seeks Review.
The disclosure appears in our Half Year and Annual to comply at all times with the relevant laws and regulations.
We Report and Accounts disclosures of 2010, 2011 and again most remain committed to ensuring exemplary governance and ethics recently in the 2012 Half Year Results in the Risk review section in all our markets, and to co-operate fully with law enforcement on page 61 under Regulatory changes and compliance.
agencies across our network to detect and stop financial crime.
Our disclosures were made in consultation with our US and UK legal advis ers and consistent with the findings of the Review.
During 2012, the Group concluded settlement agreements with five US authorities.
As part of these settlements, the Group Governance arrangements following receipt paid civil monetary penalties totalling $667 million the US of DFS Order on 6 August 2012 settlements and agreed to provisions that impose certain In response to the DFS order, the Group issued a statement co-operation, monitoring, reporting and other obligations on on 6August 2012.
After negotiations, the Group entered a theGroup.
As part of these settlements, the Group accepts and settlement agreement on 21 September 2012 paying a civil acknowledges responsibility for the violations speci ed in the monetary penalty of $340 million.
On 6 December 2012, the settlement agreements.
As you would expect, the Board has Group concluded settlement negotiations with the other US focused heavily on the proc ess that resulted in the settlements.
authorities, as a result of which a further civil monetary penalty Set out below is an outline of the governance practices followed of $327 million was paid.
As part of these settlements, the by the Board in relation tothesematters.
Group has agreed to various remediation actions including the appointment of monitors in our New York branch.
A dedicated Background and context project team has been established to ensure compliance with During the period 2001 to 2007 the Group undertook business these remediation activities.
The Audit Committee will provide relating to Iran.
In late 2006, the Group decided to cease all oversight and receive assurance that the remediation new US dollar business for Iranian entities, and by August 2007 programme is being conducted effectively.
had decided to stop all new business for Iranian entities in all currencies.
The Group continues to wind down the The Board met on seven occasions during the settlement legacybusiness.
period from 6 August to 10 December 2012 to discuss the situation and decide what action to take in the best interests In January 2010, we contacted the US authorities informing of shareholders.
A speci c Board Oversight Committee BOC them that, in early 2009, we had initiated a review of our US was established on 13 August 2012 with delegated authority dollar transactions over the period January 2001 to December from the Board to oversee negotiations.
This BOC was similar 2007 relating to US sanctions compliance the Review.
This in constitution to the previous BOG, with the addition of the Review covered all countries subject to US sanctions during Chairman of our Board Risk Committee as an alternate member.
Throughout the Review and settlement period, the Board sought Governance arrangements relating to the Review to act in the best interests of our shareholders, clients and staff The Review was conducted by US and UK external counsel in order to bring this matter to a conclusion.
In consultation with and external consultants.
The factual outcome of the Review our US and UK legal advise rs, the Board assessed that the was submitted to the US authorities in 32 detailed reports.
potential consequences of not reaching settlements with the US authorities signi cantly outweighed the costs of settling.
Throughout the Review, the US authorities were regularly We have engaged extensively with our institutional shareholders updated, as was our lead UK regulator the Financial Services regarding the circumstances surrounding the US settlements Authority FSA, our Board and the Audit Committee.
Given and they have supported our approach.
the nature of the Review, additional oversight was provided by a Board Oversight Group BOG consisting of our Group Chairman, our Group Chief Executive and our Senior Independent Director.
During the Review, the Project Steering Committee PSC met periodically and updated the BOG at key milestones.
A senior representative from our external counsel attended the majority ofthe BOG meetings as did the Group Company Secretary.
The Audit Committee and the Board were updated regularly.
1 The US authorities comprise The New York Department of Financial Services DFS, the Of ce of Foreign Assets Control OFAC, the New York County District Attorneys Of ce DANY, the United States Department of Justice DOJ and the Federal Reserve NYFED Corporate governance 137 Number of Board meetings held in 2012 Key elements of the Boards effectiveness Scheduled The role of the Chairman meetings Ad hoc Board members 9 4 The Chairman plays a critical role in ensuring the Boards overall effectiveness.
As part of the Boards annual effectiveness review Sir John Peace Chairman 9 9 4 4 feedback, all Directors commented on the Chairmans highly P A Sands 9 9 4 4 effective, engaging style stating that he is thoughtful and R H P Markham 9 9 4 4 encourages open dialogue enabling all members to contribute effectively.
The Chairman and the Board as a whole are R H Meddings 9 9 4 4 important role models for the Groups culture and values, setting S P Bertamini 8 9 3 4 the right tone from the top of the organisation.
Also, alongside J S Bindra 9 9 3 4 the Chairman, the Group Company Secretary has a key role in R Delbridge 9 9 4 4 in uencing the effectiveness of the Board.
J F T Dundas 9 9 4 4 As our Senior Independent Director, Rudy Markham plays an important role as the sounding board for the Chairman.
M Ewing 2 2 0 0 V F Gooding 9 9 3 4 Engagement with shareholders Dr Han Seung-soo 9 9 4 4 We have a proactive engagement strategy with shareholders S J Lowth 9 9 4 4 across our footprint.
Our Board receives regular updates on the views of our institutional shareholders and stakeholders and R Markland 9 9 3 4 Board members openly seek the views of our shareholders.
J G H Paynter 9 9 4 4 During 2012, a combination of our Group Chairman, Group Chief A M G Rees 9 9 4 4 Executive Of cer and Group Finance Director met with 21 of our top 25 investors.
Sir John also hosted a dinner attended V Shankar 9 9 3 3 by corporate governance representatives of our largest P D Skinner 9 9 4 4 shareholders and over the course of the year met with 34 O H J Stocken 9 9 3 4 individual investors and investor bodies.
We run an annual programme of planned road shows and we also attend key Dr L H Thunell 2 2 0 0 industry conferences.
As such, we ensure that we see our top 50 Appointed to the Board on 1 November 2012 shareholders at least once a year, and many of these we see more frequently.
The Board is mindful of its responsibility to take account of wider stakeholders.
A part of the overseas visits, Board members will meet with local regulators and clients and participate in community activities.
As a Board, we acknowledge the relevance of considering long-term factors including relevant environmental, social and governance issues, and the reputation of the company for high standards of business conduct in ful lling our duty to promote the success of the company.
138 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued I nduction and ongoing engagement plans Although it is felt that our Board is highly effective, there was a We have very extensive, ro bust, tailor-made director induction strong sense that the Board is mindful that there is no room for and ongoing development programmes for which records are complacency, a nd that the dif cult issues that the Board faced maintained.
This has continued to evolve over the last five years.
during the year served as a good reminder of this point.
We Each engagement plan typically consists of a mix of brie ngs will continue to explore methods to enable us to continuously on specialist topics, attendance at key management meetings enhance our Boards effectiveness.
A summary of the key and additional visits to our markets.
In addition to overseas themes identi ed in the 2012 review are set out on pages 13 9 Board meetings, independent non-executive directors will and 140.
For 2013, our current intention is to conduct an undertake one or two additional overseas visits during the year.
externally facilitated board effectiveness review.
The importance of these plans is heightened in 2013 given that there are four new directors who have recently joined the Board.
Individual director and Chairman effectiveness reviews In addition to reviewing the Boards overall effectiveness each More broadly, the independent non-executive directors are director discussed his or her self assessment with the Chairman supported by dedicated corporate secretariat resources and on a one-to-one basis.
These discussions included details of avail of specialist advice on corporate governance matters.
time commitment including where relevant the potential impact of outside interests held by each director, engagement plan 2012 Board effectiveness review and outcomes implementation and other broader contributions to the Board.
This year, the Board has used a free-style approach to Inrelation to the executive directors, there was a particular focus assessing its effectiveness.
Directors were invited to express on their role as Board members as distinct from senior executives.
their top of mind thoughts and feelings on any aspects of the Boards effectiveness.
They were also requested to provide Part of Rudy Markhams role as Senior Independent Director is their views on two areas speci ed by the FSA.
These were the to provide the Boards feedback on Sir Johns performance as balance between informal and formal governance at Board part of the Boards evaluation process.
Details of the process level: and the balance between information provided and risk followed together with the Boards feedback can be found on discussions held at Board level against those held at the page 159.
Overall, directors felt that the balance between informal and formal governance at Board level was appropriate and that the combination of informal and formal Board sessions promotes discursive debate, a healthy environment and good engagement between the independent non-executive and the executive directors.
Many of our Board commented on the effectiveness of regular Board lunches and dinners at which speci c strategic topics are debated.
Other directors commented on the value gained when the Board met overseas, allowing for more interaction outside of the formal Board meetings.
One director commented that the overseas Board meetings are useful in giving the independent non-executives a feel for our businesses, and that equally they give our executives in our markets the opportunity to interact with the independent non-executives on our Board.
Corporate governance 139 Summary of the themes identi ed in the 2012 board effectiveness review and actions taken to be taken 2012 2011 Theme action Actions taken to be taken Theme action Actions taken identi ed identi ed Ensure that the Senior management will The Board recognises Over the course of the year, the Board the criticality of has received regular updates on the Board continues continue to engage with to make space to directors individually and the maintaining constructive changing regulatory landscape, details Board collectively in shaping regulatory relationships.
of which can be found on page 135. focus on the key strategic issues the Boards strategic agenda In 2012 we explored This will remain a key focus for 2013 further opportunities As part of the 2013 Strategy for the Board to receive Board meeting the Board will input from mor e focus on the challenges facing external sources the Group e. g. m acroeconomic Guarding against complacency geo-political will continue to be a focus for environment, the Board and its committees competitive environment and legal regulatory landscape Ensure the Board Induction programmes for It was recognised that During 2012, Board composition and remains effective new directors are being tailored the existing Board executive succession have been key during its transition to enable them to contribute composition results areas of focus for the Nomination effectively in a highly effective Committee see pages 158 and 159 Board.
Within this and the Board as a whole see All things being equal, we will context, it was pages 132 and 133 appoint an external facilitator commented that the to support the Boards review diversity of the Board of its own effectiveness in 2013 might be further enhanced with greater representation from our geographical footprint and possibly through more female representation Continue to ensure In addition to the regular risk In 2011, it was Opportunities for further re nement the right balance information provided to the recognised that have been identi ed and implemented between the nature Board, periodically the Group Boardp apers could in 2012, including onepage executive of risk information Chief Risk Of cer will facilitate be more concise, summaries for all core strategic papers, and discussions Board sessions focusing on the whilst balancing providing a roadmap for the issues occurring at Board Groups performance in the this with the need discussed in more depth in the body of level versus those context of the risk appetite to ensure that the paper.
Further progress has been conducted at the approved by the Board directorsr eceive made in distinguishing more rigorously Board Risk allt he information between information Directors must Committee necessary to ful l have in order to ful l their duties and their duties effectively other optional information for those Directors with an appetite to delve more deeply into a particular topic 140 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued Board committees For example, the chairmen of the Audit and Board Risk Our Board has made a conscious decision to delegate a broader Committees sit on each others committees, and there are two range of issues to the board committees.
As a result, it is further common members.
There is also some common important to ensure effective linkages exist between the Board membership between the Board Risk Committee and the and its committees whilst being mindful of the need to guard Remuneration Committee.
against the danger of unnecessarily duplicating effort.
The Inevitably some issues are relevant to more than one committee.
linkages between the committees and the Board are critical In this case our practice is for the relevant committee chairs to given that it is impractical for all independent non-executive discuss and agree which committee will lead in covering that directors to be members of all the committees.
We have ensured particular issue.
This helps to guard against the risks of gaps that there is some common membership across our committees.
and unnecessary duplication of effort between the committees.
Group board committee structure Standard Chartered PLC Board Primary Committees Enabling Committees Audit Risk Brand and Values Remuneration Nomination Governance Oversight and review Oversight and review Oversight and review Oversight and review Oversight and Oversight of overall of financial, audit of fundamental of brand positioning, of remuneration, review of board board effectiveness and internal prudential risks treating customers share plans and and executive and governance control issues including credit, fairly, reputational other incentives succession issues market, capital risk, ethics and liquidity, operational sustainability issues risk, country cross-border risk and pension risk Corporate governance 141 Membership of the board committees as at 5 March 2013 Brand Audit Board Risk and Values Governance Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee R Delbridge J F T Dundas M Ewing V F Gooding Dr Han Seung-soo S J Lowth R H P Markham R Markland J G H Paynter Sir John Peace P A Sands P D Skinner O H J Stocken Dr L H Thunell Chairman Member Was a Committee member until 18 September 2012 Joined the Committee with effect from 1 February 2013 142 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Audit Committee Dear Shareholder Richard Delbridge will be stepping down from the Committee on 1 May 2013.
I would like to pay tribute to Richard for his valuable During 2012, the Audit Committee has deepened its focus contribution to the Committee during the last three years.
on the effectiveness of internal controls, compliance, assurance and internal audit functions, and the work Away from its formal Committee meetings, the Committee has undertaken and the challenges provided by our Group continued to have a number of sessions on particular topics.
statutory auditors, KPMG Audit Plc.
These sessions are held in conjunction with the Board Risk Committee and have proven to be bene cial in enabling both The Committee has taken detailed note of the latest UK on-going development and understanding and more in-depth Corporate Governance Code the Code recommendations.
discussion on the causes of issues reported at Committee We have always strived to achieve the aims of the Code and the meetings.
In 2012, the topics included the Groups customer best practice recommendations of other corporate governance due diligence and anti-money laundering programme: the bodies, and have welcomed the further enhancement by the Groups process for compliance with the Foreign Account Tax UK Financial Reporting Council.
We have re ected the new and Compliance Act: the infrastructure implications for the requirements in the Committees terms of reference.
Group arising from commodities strategy: market risk and In carrying out its work the Committee has focused on the market risk management: an update on signi cant IT projects thoroughness by which the Groups standards are implemented including operational resilience around our country and hubbed and embedded a nd has sought, and been provided with, service centres and technology resilience information security : evidence of their effectiveness.
Where Group Internal Audit has an update on the Groups sanctions programme: the operational identi ed inconsistency in management supervision and failed risk transformation programme and an update on the changes audits where practices were found to have fallen below the to accounting standards.
Groups standards, the Committee has looked to see if root I can con rm that over the course of the year the information causes and common themes have been identi ed.
We have that the Committee has received has been balanced, appropriate considered managements responses and the action plans and timely and has enabled the Committee to ful l its remit.
developed to address the issues.
The Committee has been encouraged by the rigour of the approach taken by management when issues are identi ed and have challenged the proposed solutions to ensure that they are both strategic and sustainable.
We have considered the quality of the financial disclosures, the status of the Groups internal controls and the oversight of regulation provided by the Compliance function across the Rudy Markham Groups footprint.
Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee has scrutinised and advised on financial governance issues.
The quali cations and expertise of our Committee members have been targeted to meet the requirements set out in the Committees terms of reference.
We have a mix of individuals, expertise and quali cations relevant to the maturity of the Committee and to the nature of Standard Chartered.
In November 2012, Margaret Ewing joined the Committee bringing signi cant accounting, finance, risk and regulatory expertise from her 30 years experience as a chartered accountant.
Corporate governance 143 1 2 3 Audit Committee Members Scheduled meetings: 7 R H P Markham Chairman 1 7 7 J F T Dundas 2 7 7 R Delbridge 3 7 7 46 5 M Ewing 4 1 1 R Markland 5 7 7 J G H Paynter 6 6 7 Appointed 1 November 2012 Other attendees at Committee meetings include: Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive Of cer: Group Finance Director: Group Chief Risk Of cer: Group Head of Internal Audit: Group Head of Compliance: Director, Property, Research and Assurance: Group As part of, and in addition to, each formal Committee meeting, the Company Secretary: Group statutory auditors.
Committee has private members only meetings.
The Committees role Key areas of focus in 2012 The role of the Audit Committee is fundamental to ensuring the financial integrity and accuracy of Standard Chartereds Ensured that the Groups financial systems, processes financial reporting.
and controls are operating effectively and consistently in line with the Groups growth and complexity and in Good, open relationships between the Committee, the Group response to changes in regulatory requirements Finance Director, our Group Internal Audit Function and KPMG Audit Plc KPMG, our Group statutory auditors, are essential to Continued to scrutinise the internal audit process to adding value to the organisation.
This is encouraged by holding ensure satisfaction with the quality and coverage of management to account for the implementation of all audit the work performed by Group Internal Audit recommendations internal and external : inviting appropriate Continued to ensure that we are satis ed that our Group business heads to meetings to explain how they are delivering statutory auditor is effective, has allocated suf cient and their agreed actions for which they are responsible: and holding experienced resources to address heightened risks, and separate meetings between the Committee chairman, provides required scepticism independent non-executives, and internal and external auditors to help committee members establish open working Focused on the root causes of control failure compliance relationships.
and weaknesses The Committee is aware of balancing the requirement that Continued to focus on the effective linkages between the information received is concise whilst ensuring it receives the Committee, the Board and other board committees all of the information necessary to ful l its duties effectively.
Close engagement with subsidiary board audit committees One of the ways in which this is achieved is through meetings to ensure greater and more detailed oversight of key areas held throughout the year between the Committee Chairman, of concern the Group statutory auditors, and the Group Finance Director to discuss areas for the meeting agendas and papers that should be provided.
Our priorities for 2013 As well as providing assurance within the governance and accountability structures of Standard Chartered, it is essential Ensuring that the Committee is exercising its assurance that the Committee contributes, delivers results and adds value oversight role in the best possible way to the Group.
Continue to monitor the delivery of the Groups finance transformation project Financial reporting Over the course of the year, the Committee has considered the Consider signi cant accounting issues and ensure financial control framework within the Group.
We have discussed appropriate disclosure and sought assurance that the effects on the Groups business Continue to scrutinise key accounting judg ments used of the continued volatility in financial markets remains closely for credit, goodwill and tax monitored.
The Committee has discussed with KPMG the key areas of judgment i n the Groups financial reporting.
Particular Provide oversight and receive assurance regarding the areas for discussion have been loan provisioning and impairment remediation programme as part of the settlements with and goodwill impairment.
We are satis ed that we have 1 the US authorities considered for disclosure all material relevant issues that have Monitor changes in the external regulatory environment concerned management and the Group statutory auditors to make sure that we continue to have appropriate during the year.
financial, compliance and internal controls in place Continue to ensure that our Group statutory auditor has allocated suf cient additional and experienced resources to match the growing size and complexity of the Group Consider the findings of investigations designed to identify the causes of breaches of control or breakdown inp rocesses 1 The US authorities comprise The New York Department of Financial Services DFS, the Of ce of Foreign Assets Control OFAC, the New York County District Attorneys Of ce DANY, the United States Department of Justice DOJ and the Federal Reserve NYFED 144 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued We have reviewed and monitored the appropriateness and Control environment completeness of the published financial statements and Our activities included the consideration of reports in respect circulars to shareholders of the Company and any formal of the control environment in a number of our markets.
announcements relating to the Groups financial performance, From time to time, the Committee invites senior executives and including signi cant financial reporting judg ments and estimates management from across the Group to discuss developments made by the Group.
and issues that have arisen in their jurisdiction.
The Committee has considered managements recommendations In 2012, our Group Internal Audit function conducted 205 risk in respect of provisions for bad and doubtful debts and any other based audits compared with 175 in 2011, eight of which were provisioning for losses and charges as reported in the Groups graded as failed audits compared with 10 in 2011.
We have half year and full year results.
We also considered managements reviewed and monitored managements responses to Group assessment in determining that the going concern basis for Internal Audits findings and recommendations.
preparing those financial statements continues to be appropriate.
The issues map, contained within the Group Internal Audit In light of the revised Corporate Governance Code issued by reports to the Committee, enables focused discussion on the UK Financial Reporting Council in September 2012, the speci c areas of concern and root causes and to track Groups existing processes and procedures, designed to ensure remediation progress over time.
Areas of focus in 2012 have that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and been our anti-m oney laundering processes and procedures, understandable and provides the information necessary for foreign exchange monitoring and risk controls in a number shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business of the Groups geographies.
Lessons learned reviews are model and strategy, have been reviewed.
Whilst we do not conducted following the resolution of matters raised by Group believe that any substantial change is required, it was felt that Internal Audit, the findings of which have been discussed by there were some enhancements that could be made.
The Committee has sought and received Committee has satis ed itself that processes and procedures assurance regarding the appropriateness of the Groups in place are appropriate and support the fair, balanced and sanctions compliance programme, which is subject to regular understandable criteria.
review through robust audit and assurance processes to support continuous improvement.
The Group continues to face a steady ow of developments in new accounting standards and interpretations and we have Group statutory auditor considered the anticipated impact these future accounting We have continued to strengthen our oversight of the work developments will have on the Group.
undertaken by the Group statutory auditor, KPMG.
Throughout Given the increasing requirements from regulators across the year local audit partners from Hong Kong, Singapore and jurisdictions and more complex and growing demands from the UAE have attended Committee meetings that have provided the business, the Group has been changing the evolution, the Committee with the opportunity to gain greater insight as shape, resourcing and competence of its finance function.
to the challenges faced in the Groups markets from a statutory The Committee has discussed the business and functional audit perspective.
In addition, Committee members have met issues being addressed by this transformation programme with local audit partners in China, the UAE, Hong Kong, together with the programmes structure, the expected Pakistan, Taiwan, New York and Zambia.
outcomes, programme governance, and the risks and We have discussed with KPMG the consistency and balance issues identi ed.
of management judg ment, and business and financial risks, and have sought assurance that these risks have been properly addressed in the audit strategy plan that has been reviewed by the Committee.
We are satis ed that KPMG has allocated suf cient additional and experienced resources to address heightened risks.
We have sought assurance and are comfortable that no undue pressure has been asserted on the level of audit fees so as to ensure that there is no risk to auditw ork being conducted effectively.
Corporate governance 145 During the year, we approved the re-appointment, remuneration In addition, the non-audit services work to be undertaken must and engagement letter of KPMG as our Group statutory auditor.
not have the potential to signi cantly impact the operations of In line with the UK Financial Reporting Councils recent any financial reporting area of the Group and there must not be recommendations, the Committee will be putting the Groups any reputational issues arising from the work to be undertaken.
statutory audit work out to tender in 2013.
The Policy clearly sets out the criteria for when the Committees prior written approval is required.
We conducted a review of the performance and effectiveness of KPMG that included an assessment of its independence and Note 8 on pages 219 and 220 d escribes the types of non-audit objectivity.
In conducting the review, the Committee sought to services provided by KPMG.
gain assurance that KPMG ha d conducted a comprehensive, As disclosed in 2011, KPMG was engaged as a skilled person appropriate and effective audit.
As in previous years, the review for the purposes of preparation of a Section 166 report on the was performed jointly by Group Internal Audit and Group Groups Liquidity Reporting.
While the majority of this work was Finance by way of a structured questionnaire.
The questionnaire completed during 2011, the engagement concluded in 2012. was sent to country Chief Financial Of cers, members of our Fees of $331,000 were paid for this engagement in 2012, in Finance Leadership Team, country Chief Executive Of cers addition to the $542,000 paid in 2011. and our Business Leadership Team covering all of our major markets.
The questionnaire considered KPMGs value add to Group Internal Audit and Group Compliance the Group, the level of engagement, its ability to demonstrate an We have reviewed the resourcing and proposed work plans for understanding of Standard Chartered and our risk environment both the Group Internal Audit and Group Compliance functions and the demonstration of appreciation of the issues faced by and are satis ed that both the work plans and resources are country Chief Executive Of cers, Chief Financial Of cers and appropriate in terms of proposed areas of focus and the Business Heads, together with its objectivity, independence and expertise and skill that exist within both functions given the effectiveness.
Over the course of the year, the Committee has current regulatory environment.
scrutinised the audit process and the quality and experience of the audit partners engaged in the audit.
The 2012 Group In order to maximise the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit Plan considered by the Committee provided details of Audit function, and also to ensure that any con icts that might the number of years KPMG partners and senior team members arise between the international nature of the Group and the have been involved in the Groups audit.
KPMGs lead audit growing emphasis on national interest banking at a regulatory partner for Standard Chartered the position of lead audit level are adequately addressed, the Committee was provided partner was last rotated in 2010 has a background in auditing with an overview of a project designed to consider any changes banks and understands the markets in which we operate.
and provided feedback on these.
Regulators in many of our footprint countries have increased Non-audit services their level of supervision, with a more local focus, leading to In 2012, the Group spent $4.2 million in non-audit services speci c challenges over the perceived independence of local provided by KPMG and $28.1 million in non-audit services Audit and Assurance functions: in conjunction with the need for with other audit rms.
Further details can be found in note 8 senior Compliance management to focus on a more challenging on pages 219 and 220. regulatory world.
The Groups policy on the award of non-audit services to As a result of this review the Committee is comfortable that auditors the Policy states that the Groups statutory auditor the independence of the Group Internal Audit function has should not be regarded as the automatic or first audit rm beenr einforced.
of choice for non-audit services and consideration should always be given to the use of other rms.
If the Groups statutory auditor is appointed to provide non-audit services, the primary consideration is to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the audit rm is not or could not be perceived to be compromised by the appointment.
146 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued We have reviewed and approved Group Internal Audits Charter, Ongoing training and development its annual audit plan and its monitoring of post-a udit actions.
In addition to other ongoing training and development activities We have considered the resourcing requirements of the function.
in each independent non-executive directors engagement or Our remit also includes the consideration of the appointment, induction plan, four half-day informal sessions were held in resignation or removal of our Head of Internal Audit.
conjunction with the Board Risk Committee over the course of the year.
All independent non-executive directors were invited to In addition to considering how comfortable the Committee is these sessions.
with the scope, remit and quality of the work undertaken by Group Internal Audit and whether there are areas for improvement, Speaking Up as part of the continued scrutiny undertaken by the Committee The Committee reviewed the Groups Speaking Up Policy, which of the Groups audit process, the Committee has considered a allows our employees to raise, in con dence, any concerns that number of aspects including but not limited to whether Group they may have about possible improprieties in matters of Internal Audit places enough emphasis on big picture and financial reporting or other areas.
The Committee considered systemic issues: whether management is given suf cient the type and nature of the activity reported together with the opportunity to comment on audit issues and their resolution: resolution and consequence to ensure that any matters of the clarity of Audit reporting and the follow up of audit issues: concern were investigated appropriately.
and Group Internal Audits ability to identify areas of concern in the context of the banking industry.
Interaction with management The Committee meets separately with our Group statutory auditor, KPMG, the Group Finance Director, Group Head of Internal Audit and Group Head of Compliance on a regular basis.
These meetings allow Committee members to discuss freely matters relating to the auditors remit and issues arising from the audit.
During the year, the Committee also met privately with Group Internal Audits senior management team.
Linkages between the Committee and subsidiary board audit committees As has been the practice for a number of years, in 2012 RudyMarkham hosted a call with the chairmen of our subsidiary audit committees.
These calls provide the opportunity for Rudy to share what the Committee has been focu sing on over the previous year together with the priorities for the forthcoming year and the rationale for these.
There has also been a programme whereby the subsidiary audit chairmen are invited to attend Audit Committee meetings.
We have documented principles fide ning the linkages between the Audit Committee and the audit committees of subsidiary companies.
Corporate governance 147 Summary of the themes identi ed in the 2012 Committee effectiveness review and actions taken to be taken 2012 2011 Observations Actions taken to be taken Observations Actions taken Continue to provide We will re ect on the Continue to focus on the We will continue to look for ways hindsight judg ments to effective linkages between to evolve ways in which the assurance to the Board that controls and come in the future, so that the Committee, and Committee gains greater insight compliance culture fully the Committee can be subsidiary board audit into the role of the Groups support the Groups satis ed that the compliance committees subsidiary audit committees strategy culture is aligned with regulatory expectation Whilst it was felt that the The Committees There is a need to explore We have mirrored the approach taken by the Board by moving Committee sets clear expectations for Group ways to ensure that the expectations for and Internal Audit will be more Committee is able to focus towards distinguishing more expressly stated in Group on the root cause of issues, rigorously between information appropriately challenges Group Internal Audit, it Internal Audits Charter new business areas and the Committee must have in was agreed that these any issues arising as the order to ful l its duties and other could be enhanced Group grows optional information for those Committee members with an appetite to delve more deeply into a particular topic.
Over the course of the year we have held informal sessions to enable the Committee to re ect on issues being brought to its attention, consider bigger picture i ssues and focus more on root causes Committee membership The Committees effectiveness continues to be enhanced The Nomination Committee has reviewed the Committees through the existence of synergies in membership.
It was a composition during the year and is satis ed that the Committee deliberate decision to have a strong overlap with other board has the expertise and resources to effectively ful l its committees as it is one of the ways in which we have enabled responsibilities including those relating to internal finance controls appropriate linkages to exist between Committees.
For instance, and the Groups internal control systems.
The Nomination Jamie Dundas is both a member of the Audit Committee and Committee found that the Committees members possess the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee, Ruth Markland is necessary accounting, financial, legal, banking and investment Chairman and John Paynter is a member of the Remuneration knowledge and skills that are needed.
As part of the Board and Committee.
These synergies have ensured that the interplay Committee succession planning programme, Richard Delbridge of risk, remuneration and the financial outcome are considered will be stepping down from the Committee with effect from from different p erspectives but result in a consistent view and 1 May 2013.
Margaret Ewing joined the Committee in treatment of performance within the Group.
November 2012 bringing signi cant accounting, finance, risk Details of our Committee members experience can be found and regulatory expertise from her 30 years experience as a in their biographies on pages 124 to 128.
All of the Committee chartered accountant.
The Board is satis ed that both Rudy Markham has been on the Board for 12 years and as a Margaret Ewing and Rudy Markham as Chairman have recent result, his continued independence is the subject of particular and relevant financial experience and that all other Committee scrutiny by the Nomination Committee and the Board.
members have broad experience and knowledge of financial reporting and international businesses.
The Board and the Committee members believe that Rudy is an excellent chairman who reacts with balance to issues and ensures that all Committee members are included in discussions.
148 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Board Risk Committee Dear Shareholder Key areas of focus in 2012 Through 2012, the overarching objective of the Board Continued to ensure that the right balance is being struck Risk Committee has been to provide the Board with between strategic forwardlooking oversight of the assurance that the Group has continued to remain within Groups risks and a more detailed review of management the Board approved risk appetite.
It has also overseen information and risk management processes across the that the Groups risk management function is of the full spectrum of risk types highest possible quality, authoritative and effective in identifying and managing current and future risk.
Reviewed and recommended updates to the Groups risk appetite statement Challenging macro economic conditions, the eurozone crisis, slowing growth in some Eastern economies and unresolved Continued to evolve how the Committee tracks over time issues in Western banking systems presented a dif cult context the Groups utilisation of risk capacity and our exposure for risk management in 2012.
The pace, variety and complexity to key risk types over time of regulatory initiatives, especially regarding capital and liquidity, Increased focus on how risk is changing in our markets has also been challenging.
Against this backdrop, I am pleased to say that the Committee was satis ed that throughout 2012 the Continued to evolve the linkages between the Committee Group was operating within the Board approved risk appetite, and the Board, board committees and management with strong capital and liquidity positions.
These were shown to committees be resilient to stress with risks to future earnings held well within carefully fide ned levels of tolerance.
The Committees work and activities underpinning that Our priorities for 2013 statement are described in some detail in the paragraphs that Continue to optimise and enhance the Committees follow.
I would draw out the following highlights: effectiveness through striking the right balance between We have built on our experience in prior years to re ne the regular monitoring of risk information: discussions detailed risk information we receive to ensure it continues to concerning signi cant issues: regulatorydriven be well focus ed and forwardlooking.
We have enhanced our responsibilities: and horizon scanning focus on data that would identify any possible concentrations Maintain and continue focus on capital and liquidity stress of risk, and on the mix of our portfolios between assets that testing and models, especially against Group risk appetite are more or less resilient to stress Continue to evolve the means by which the Board is We have spent much time on the Groups stresstesting provided with visibility of key elements of the Committees programme and the application of models, challenging work assumptions and drawing conclusions from findings Maintain our programme of focused detailed reviews into We have conducted focused detailed reviews into credit, selected areas of risk liquidity and market risk across the Groups businesses and principal geographies, and we have monitored and strongly supported the Groups implementation of its operational risk transformation programme Very importantly, we have maintained a rolling assessment of the effectiveness, resourcing and independence of judg ment of the Groups risk management function.
In addition to close interaction at formal Committee meetings, this has involved regular training sessions and a number of visits by members of the Committee to operating centres across the Groups geographic footprint.
Corporate governance 149 1 2 34 Board Risk Committee Members Scheduled meetings: 6 J F T Dundas Chairman 1 6 6 R Delbridge 2 6 6 S J Lowth 3 3 6 5768 R H P Markham 4 5 6 R Markland 5 6 6 P D Skinner 6 5 6 O H J Stocken 7 6 6 1 Other attendees at Committee meetings include: Dr L H Thunell 8 0 0 Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive Of cer: Group Finance Director: 1 Appointed 1 February 2013 Group Chief Risk Of cer: Group Head of Internal Audit: Group Company Secretary: Group Treasurer: Group statutory auditors.
As part of and in addition to each formal Committee meeting, the Committee has private members only meetings.
In all aspects of its work, the Committee has sought to ensure Capital and liquidity that the Groups risk management framework is effective and The Committee considers and discusses the Groups capital fully aligned to the Boards approved strategy, and thus an active and liquidity position and the regulatory environment and contributor to sustainable performance and shareholder value.
Both the Group Chief Risk Of cer and the Group Treasurer are present at every scheduled meeting.
Since our last report, Lars Thunell has joined the Committee.
Lars brings signi cant banking and risk management experience With regard to capital, the Committee has reviewed and to the Committee.
As already announced, Richard Delbridge will discussed in detail the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy be stepping down at this years Annual General Meeting.
I a m Assessment in order to satisfy itself that the Groups approach very grateful for all his contribution right from the establishment to capital planning is comprehensive, rigorous and consistent of the Committee.
both with current regulatory requirements and with future developments under Basel III or other likely regulatory initiatives.
Liquidity is a key focus for the Committee.
The Group conducts a range of liquidityrelated stress analyses, both for internal and regulatory purposes.
The Committee has considered the liquidity risk stresstesting framework and assumptions used in this analysis.
As liquidity risk is multi-dimensional, it is valuable torun different scenarios considering acute, chronic, Jamie Dundas name-speci c and market-wide stresses as well as any of these Chairman of the Board Risk Committee in combination.
Given that the Group operates in a large number of countries, it is also appropriate to consider stress scenarios in each country as well as in groups of countries.
Following the financial crisis, our lead UK regulator, the FSA, launched a recovery and resolution planning pilot exercise with the six largest UK banking entities, including Standard Chartered.
Further details can be found in the Liquidity risk section on page 103.
We have considered the Funding Crisis Response and Recovery Plan, the Groups The Committees role proposed governance framework for addressing liquidity and solvency crises.
This encompasses recovery planning, n amely Risk appetite preparation for taking extreme measures to address severe It is the Committees role to recommend to the Board where risk crises with the potential to impact the Groups franchise.
It a lso satis es itself that the Group has been and plans to operate within that risk appetite, with a strong Stress testing capital and liquidity position that can be shown to be resilient to In addition, to its work regarding liquidity stress tests, the stress.
R isks to future earnings are demonstrated to be held well Committee has maintained oversight of the Groups overall within carefully fide ned levels of tolerance.
stresstesting programme, reviewing the design, key In 2012, as every year, the Committee has paid careful attention assumptions and the outcomes of the principal tests.
Key to the formulation of the Groups risk appetite statement, in tests at Group level, such as the regular stress testing of overall order to assure itself that it is effective in setting appropriate compliance with risk appetite or for the FSA Mandated Reverse boundaries in respect of all main risk types.
It also satis es Stress Test, are individually discussed by the Committee.
Where itself that there is good alignment between risk appetite, Board it has felt necessary, the Committee has called for additional or approved strategy and performance objectives for the delivery more severe tests to be carried out.
The resulting Board risk appetite statement is underpinned by a range of tools and metrics that are used to Risk information provided to the Committee manage risk throughout the Group.
The Committee seeks and One of the findings of the 2011 Committee effectiveness has received at each of its scheduled meetings con rmation that review was the need for the Committee to be vigilant against the Group remains within the Board approved risk appetite.
being overwhelmed with information whilst ensuring that it During 2012, the Committee worked closely with the Groups had appropriate coverage of all the key data necessary to ful l risk function to develop the data to support this con rmation.
In 2012, the Committee re ned the These data highlight m atters such as portfolio changes that detailed risk information it received through the evolution of could alter our resilience to stress or show evidence of the Committees forward-l ooking agenda.
Subjects that were concentration of risk.
All directors receive a summary of the previously covered by individual components of regular reports risk information report for each Board meeting and minutes submitted to the Committee have been incorporated into the of Committee meetings.
Committees forwardlooking agenda items, thereby enabling 150 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued each subject to receive speci c scheduled attention as Regulatory considerations appropriate.
Reports containing much deeper and granular On behalf of the Board, the Committee considered the information are available as a resource for Committee members prudential and risk matters discussed in the Risk Assessment to draw upon.
Committee papers have evolved to enable letter issued by the FSA in May 2012 in respect of its risk further exploration of the bigger trends in terms of risk capacity assessment of the Group.
This risk assessment had been and utilisation in the markets and to be able to increase the conducted by the FSA at the end of 2011 and at the Committees focus on where risk is changing.
Examples beginning of2012 under its Advanced, Risk Responsive, include focused detailed reviews a t Committee meetings into Operating Framework.
Wholesale and Consumer Banking credit risk, market risk, At its June meeting, the Committee received a paper on the credit concentrations and the early alert process for accounts, FSA proposal for a revised Individual Capital Guidance and including the oversight, governance, strategy for and an Interim Capital Planning Buffer CPB.
The Committee management of such accounts.
considered the contents of the FSAs Internal Capital Guidance Given the ongoing economic uncertainty in the eurozone, the letter and con rmed the appropriateness of the Groups Committee has requested and received updates on the current proposed response.
state of the eurozone and the limited exposure of the Group The Committee reviewed the 2012 Group Internal Capital and the Groups response planning for any material crisis Adequacy Assessment Process document, which included experienced in the eurozone.
examining the thoroughness of the analysis and processes Over the course of the year, the Committee has received adopted to formulate the conclusions that had been made.
updates on the impact that the challenging business As part of this review, the Committee noted the stress test environment in India has had on our top large corporate containing three scenarios that would be used by the FSA exposures in India.
Risk management disclosures Quali cation of Risk Committee members The Committee has reviewed the risk disclosures in the We believe that it is essential for the Committee to have both Annualand Half Year Reports and has reviewed and approved representation from members with deep and broad banking thisdisclosure on the work of the Committee.
In addition, a risk experience and members with risk perspectives from other sub-committee of the Committee and the Audit Committee industries and professions.
The Committees effectiveness is reviewed the Basel II Pillar 3 annual disclosure.
also supported by overlapping membership and close linkages with the other main board committees, which ensure that riskrelated perspectives from the Audit, Remuneration or Brand and Values Committees are able to be aired at the Risk Committee.
Corporate governance 151 Summary of the themes identi ed in the 2012 Committee effectiveness review and actions taken to be taken.
2012 2011 Observations Actions taken to be taken Observations Actions taken Continue to ensure that Opportunities for further The Committee has bene ted Four informal sessions were re nement of agendas and from further informal sessions held in 2012 in conjunction with the right balance is being struck between papers have been identi ed into selected topics over the the Audit Committee.
The strategic forwardlooking and will be implemented course of the year subjects covered in depth were: oversight of the Groups in2 01 3 The Groups customer due risk and deeper dives diligence and anti-money into signi cant issues, laundering programme regulatory driven The Groups process for responsibilities and compliance with the Foreign horizon scanning Account Tax and Compliance Act The infrastructure implications for the Group arising from commodities strategy, market risk and market risk management An update on signi cant IT projects including operational resilience around country Our hubbed service centres and technology resilience information security Updates on the Groups sanctions programme O perational risk transformation programme Changes to accounting standards The balance between the We plan to increase formal In the course of reviewing its The detail of the risk information work undertaken by the periodic risk reporting to effectiveness, the Committee which the Committee receives Committee regarding theB oard, especially around gave careful attention to the has been re ned to ensure it risk appetite and the the Committees quarterly risk metrics it regularly continues to be well focused information provided and assessment against the receives to ensure it has and forward looking risk discussions at Board Groups risk appetite appropriate coverage of all meetings could be statement the key data necessary to enhanced ful l its terms of reference without being overwhelmed with information There is a need for the This has been achieved through Committee to further explore the enhancement of Committee the bigger trends in terms of papers and agenda risk capacity and utilisation in management to enable such the market and an increased discussions at Committee focus on where risk is meetings, and will continue to changing be an area of focus 152 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Brand and Values Committee Dear Shareholder Key areas of focus in 2012 The Brand and Values Committee has completed its third year of operation and continues to make good progress Signi cant progress made in terms of brand development, on our key priority areas including, but not limited to, active tracking of brand metrics to maximise the brand, reputational risk, culture and values, effectiveness of brand spend, and continued use of the 1 sustainability and environment.
brand funnel tool to inform investment decisions I am pleased to report further signi cant progress on the Ongoing review of Here for good to ensure that it continues development of our brand.
The Committee now has clearer to embed and resonate well throughout the organisation oversight of brand development, metrics and governance as Reviewed the progress made in delivering client and a result of the more developed and granular level of information customerfocused strategies in Wholesale Banking and being provided to the Committee.
Our brand investment Consumer Banking, in line with Here for good and programmes have provided good platforms to further 2 managements approach to Treating Customers Fairly strengthen our brand position.
Continued to review our community investment and This year, the Committee has enquired extensively into the area environmental strategies, programmes and processes of reputational risk management, carefully scrutinising the Groups for measuring and monitoring our environmental impact processes of identifying and managing reputational risk.
We continue to review how senior management across the Group Ensured that we protect and develop our culture and is made suf ciently aware of its key responsibility to identify values during a period of continued growth for the Group reputational risks that could be of importance to the Group, Reviewed the quality and effectiveness of government andp robe how well the focus on reputational risk is embedded.
and regulatory relationships in our major markets We continue to learn from individual cases as they develop.
The Committee is strongly supportive of the work carried out across the Group to reinforce our culture as a source of Our priorities for 2013 competitive advantage and to understand how this resonates with our Here for good brand promise and the way this is Continue to monitor strategic priorities for our brand whilst operationalised.
Preserving our culture and values during a ensuring that brand investment is fully leveraged period of fast growth continues to be of fundamental importance Continue to oversee our culture and values as the Group to the Group, as is our broader contribution to society.
continues to grow and develop, to ensure that it remains During 2012, the Committee has reviewed the progress being a source of competitive advantage that is hard to replicate made in advancing a broad environmental agenda.
We have and remains a prominent feature of our governance assessed the Groups direct and indirect impacts on the Continue to drive maximum value from our brand environment and can report good progress in many areas, from investment programmes reducing paper usage to the energy ef ciency of our buildings.
We continue to oversee how the Group improves its disciplines Oversee the approach to identifying and managing the in seeking to minimise its environmental impact.
material reputational risks affecting the Group Val Gooding will be stepping down from the Committee on Oversee the Groups approach to enhancing the quality 1May 2013.
I would like to thank Val for her valuable contribution of our government and regulatory relationships in major to the Committee and previously to the Sustainability and markets in an increasingly complex regulatory landscape Responsibility Committee over the last eight years.
Review the Groups environmental strategy in terms of The work carried out by the Committee this year has reinforced both internal direct impacts and external contribution the signi cance of its purpose, remit and agenda.
Nevertheless, we have taken proactive steps to evaluate the progress that the Continue to review the progress being made against the Committee has made over the last 12 months and have carefully Groups Diversity and Inclusion priorities examined suggestions for improvement going forward to enhance the Committees effectiveness.
We continue to engage 1 Brand funnel is a consumerfocused marketing model that visually presents thecustomer journey from awareness via preference towards the purchase of with executive management on how the Committee can add aproduct or service value and reduce risk in the business.
As Chairman, I see this as 2 Treating Customers Fairly is a key Financial Services Authority principle for the an important and ongoing priority.
management of customer relationships Paul Skinner Chairman of the Brand and Values Committee Corporate governance 153 1 2 3 Brand and Values Committee Members Scheduled meetings: 5 P D Skinner Chairman 1 5 5 J F T Dundas 2 5 5 46 5 V F Gooding 3 4 5 Dr Han Seung-soo 4 4 5 J W Peace 5 5 5 1 P A Sands 6 3 4 1 Stood down as a Committee member with effect from 18 September 2012, Other regular attendees at Committee meetings include: becoming a permanent invitee the Group Chief Executive, Group Head of Human Resources and Communications, Group Head, Corporate Affairs, Director, Property, Research and Assurance, Group Company Secretary and Special Advis er to the Directorate.
The Committees role The reputational impact on the Groups brand arising from the 1 The Committees remit includes oversight of the Groups brand settlements with the US authorities was assessed in September positioning, reputational risk, client customer focused strategies 2012, and the results were reported to the Committee.
The including Treating Customers Fairly, regulatory relationships, Committee will continue to track the reputational impact on the sustainability issues and our culture and values.
Further details concerning reputational risk can be found on Brand page 112 of the Risk review.
Enhancements in the information being provided to the Committee has enabled a clearer level of oversight of the Culture and values development of our brand.
The quality of data from brand tracker The Committee is fully supportive of sustained focus on surveys has allowed the Committee to understand how the understanding the Groups culture and values and how they brand is developing in key markets and to identify issues and reinforce Here for good.
This priority is more important now than evolving trends.
In December 2012, the Committee reviewed the external The Committee has reviewed stakeholder reactions to Here and internal in uences on culture, acknowledging that the focus for good and was encouraged to note the initiatives being used on culture and values in the banking industry was of increasing to increase internal brand engagement such as the launch of public interest.
This is a simple overview to help managers The Committee received an update on the Groups primary explain how to deliver Here for good in decision making and 12 employee engagement measurement tool the Q engagement daytoday activities.
survey reviewing the countries, businesses and support The Committee also received a report on the Chairmans Here functions that had signi cant changes in engagement levels, for good Awards, a programme for Group employees to reward noting the actions to be taken by management in response.
the team and individual who best represents Here for good.
We reviewed the way in which the Groups culture is evolving, In particular, the Awards programme resulted in 42 per cent re ecting on how Here for good offers a signi cant opportunity of the Groups employees voting, underlying the interest this to demonstrate leadership in our industry and how it is campaign has created across the Group.
operationalised as a key factor in decision mak ing throughout As our brand strategy evolves, the Committee has reviewed a the Group.
number of priorities such as speci c Consumer Banking brand Whilst the Group has been actively strengthening its culture campaigns, our marathon sponsorships and the use of digital for a number of years, the Committee acknowledges that the media.
The Committee is strongly supportive of the strategic Group is entering an important phase for culture and values.
In a challenging external environment for the banking industry, it is critical that the Group differentiates itself by a strong and Reputational risk continuing commitment to its culture, brand and values.
The Committee has reviewed the Groups processes for This remains a basis for cohesion and alignment for our people.
identifying and managing reputational risk.
At each Committee The Committee will continue to monitor how the Groups culture meeting, the most material reputational risks facing the Group and values are evolving throughout 2013. are reviewed.
The Committee regularly seeks assurance from management that the mechanisms in place for identifying and managing reputational risks remain robust and are suf ciently forward looking.
A t each meeting the Committee is provided with information concerning material risks from the perspective of external and internal stakeholders.
Any differences are discussed to ensure that any potential impacts to the Group are fully considered.
The Committee has sought and received assurance from management that the focus on reputational risk is well embedded within the Group.
The Committee regularly assesses the continued appropriateness of the reputational aspects of the Group risk appetite statement.
1 The US authorities comprise The New York Department of Financial Services DFS, the Of ce of Foreign Assets Control OFAC, the New York County District Attorneys Of ce DANY, the United States Department of Justice DOJ and the Federal Reserve NYFED 154 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued Sustainability en vironment Client and customer focus and Treating Customers Fairly Minimising operational impact and effective management of On behalf of the Board, we have continued to have oversight environmental and social risk in nancing remain fundamentally of our client focused strategy in Wholesale Banking and the important to the Group.
The bar is continually being raised in delivery of our customer focused strategy in Consumer Banking.
this important area and it is essential to ensure that all business For the annual review of the customer focused strategy in practices have environmentally sound foundations.
Consumer Banking, an in-depth analysis into the Hong Kong market provided a practical illustration of how the strategy is Further details of the Groups approach to sustainability can embedded in the business.
The Committee has conducted two in-depth reviews into During the year, the Committee has reviewed the Groups Treating Customers Fairly TCF this year, with a speci c focus strategic approach to the environment and assessed its direct on the progress being made in Hong Kong and an insight into and indirect impacts.
Good progress has been made.
For how Consumer Banking is building on TCF to promote broader example, since 2011 the Group has improved the ef ciency of cultural initiatives aligned with Here for good.
water used across its properties by 6 per cent and energy by 8 per cent.
The Committee reviewed the proposed launch of a Government and regulatory relationships supplier code of conduct and the use and development of the The Committee has continued to oversee the Groups approach Groups position statements externally focused expressions of to its main government and regulatory relationships in major our commitment and aspiration to nancing in environmentally markets.
As background to this important area, we performed and socially sensitive sectors.
It will continue to monitor how an in-depth analysis into government and regulatory these tools are developed and used within the business.
The relationships in Indonesia, which allowed the Committee Committee was pleased to note that the Group is in the early to gain a fuller appreciation of the Indonesian government stages of developing its approach to green leasing and is policies and regulatory context.
working with major landlords to agree minimum and negotiable terms for inclusion in leases.
The Committee has reviewed the Committee membership robustness of its measurement of direct environmental impacts.
The quali cations and expertise of our Committee members P wC has been engaged to provide assurance of our Scope have been targeted to meet the requirements as set out in the 1 2 1 and 2 emissions to international audit standards from 2011 Committees terms of reference.
Paul Skinner has extensive onwards.
experience of branded, customer facing businesses on a global scale, sustainability environmental issues arising in the natural In 2012, the Group was included in the 2012 Dow Jones resources industry and government relationships.
Jamie Dundas Sustainability World Index for the third time.
We continue to was previously chairman of the Sustainability and Responsibility be listed on the FTSE4Good and GS Sustain and are members Committee and has extensive international experience.
Val of the Carbon Disclosure Project.
In 2012, we were named Gooding has long experience of customer facing businesses, Sustainable Global Bank of the Year by the Financial Times and branding marketing and the development of strong customer International Finance Corporation.
Further details can be found franchises.
Dr Han has deep experience of geo-political issues, in our 2012 Sustainability Review on our website.
These multi lateral agencies and sustainability environmental policies.
recognitions provide important endorsement for our approach.
The Committees effectiveness is enhanced through the The Committee reviews community investment expenditure existence of synergies in membership.
For example, Paul is against a set criteria and budget.
During the year, the Committee Chairman of the Brand and Values Committee and a member reviewed the Groups approach to community investment, with of the Board Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
particular emphasis on our Seeing is Believing programme.
Jamie is a member of the Brand and Values Committee and Chairman of the Board Risk Committee.
As part of our multi-year Board succession plan, itislikely that there will be further appointments to the Committee in 2013.
Committee effectiveness review This year, the Committee has undertaken an internally facilitated effectiveness review with input from executive management.
Proactive steps have been taken to consolidate the progress the Committee has made over the last 12 months and to adopt suggestions to improve effectiveness going forward.
1 Scope 1 emissions: Direct carbon emissions occurring from sources owned or controlled by the Group.
These sources include emissions from combustion of all types of fuel in properties over 10,000 square feet, classi ed as our GEMS properties 2 Scope 2 emissions: Indirect emissions from the Groups consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam in GEMS buildings.
Indirect carbon emissions are those emissions that are a consequence of the activities of the Group but occur at sources owned or controlled by another entity Corporate governance 155 Summary of the themes identi ed in the 2012 Committee effectiveness review and actions taken to be taken 2012 2011 Observations Actions taken to be taken Observations Actions taken The Committee could The Committee plans to Wider senior management A broader representation of provide a forum for a best engage with executive exposure to the Committee senior leaders have attended Committee meetings in 2012 practice discussion on management with a view could assist with discussions the Groups management to organising a focused at Committee meetings discussion, using a leading bringing colour and depth of reputational risk external practitioner to to agenda items inform its approach The Committee should Committee papers could Committee effectiveness A number of deep dives probe how Here for good include periodic examples could be enhanced by the have been used in 2012 to is operationalised in of how Here for good is use of more focused detailed demonstrate how certain decision making factored into decision reviews t o gain a greater issues are being managed on the ground making with relevant case understanding of how issues studies and or focu sed are managed in practice detailed reviews, a s appropriate The Committee should Existing brand metrics, There is a need to continue to This is an ongoing action as further develop its supported by brand tracker ensure that the right balance Committee papers are reviewed approach to reviewing surveys and the brand is struck in the provision of brand development funnel tool will be re ned.
information to the Committee Findings from an external to enable it to discharge its brand audit will be reviewed role without over-e ngaging in detailed operational issues A broader attendance Attendance by broader Senior management would The Committee Chairman of business leaders at business leaders at bene t from greater continues to meet with senior Committee meetings Committee meetings will engagement with Committee management presenters is desirable in 2013 continue in 2013 members outside of formal outside of formal Committee meetings meetings, and a number of Committee members have attended Brand Council meetings during the year 156 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 1 23 Governance Committee Members Scheduled meetings: 3 J W Peace Chairman 1 3 3 R H P Markham 2 3 3 P A Sands 3 3 3 Other attendees at Committee meetings include: the Group Company Secretary.
The Regional Governance Chief Executive Of cers are invited to attend on an occasional basis.
The Committees role Key areas of focus in 2012 The Committee is an enabling body to provide a dedicated forum for the Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Reviewed the Groups geographical governance Senior Independent Director SID to consider key corporate framework, particularly the subsidiary governance governance issues.
In addition to providing oversight of all philosophy and linkages in place material corporate governance issues affecting the Group and Monitored the progress of actions arising from the 2011 making recommendations to the Board, the Committee also Board effectiveness review and carried out a substantive monitors developments and emerging best practice in corporate review of the feedback arising from the 2012 Board governance across our markets.
Our remit also covers oversight effectiveness review, ahead of consideration by the Board of the process by which the Board, each Board Committee and individual directors assess their effectiveness and reviews the Considered the FSA s findings in respect of the Core geographical governance that is applied across the Group.
Prudential Programme governance review for recommendation to the Board Emerging trends and their impact on our approach Continued to monitor corporate governance best tosubsidiary governance practices to enable recommendations to be made to the During the year, the Committee carried out a review into Board concerning the adoption of enhanced practices the Groups geographical governance framework and the philosophy underpinning the Groups approach to subsidiary Oversight of the approach to determine and implement governance.
As part of this review, the Committee received lessons learned arising from the settlements with the an overview of emerging trends and developments impacting 1 US authorities the Groups approach to subsidiary governance, a nd a comprehensive outline of the linkages that are in place between the Board and its banking subsidiary boards and committees.
Our priorities for 2013 This review also covered proposed enhancements to our subsidiary governance philosophy, to ensure that the Group Ensure suf cient agenda space to deal with ad hoc remains abreast of the changing demands of the global business governance issues as they arise environment and local regulatory developments in corporate Continue to review the philosophy underpinning our governance codes and standards.
approach to subsidiary governance and linkages There are multiple linkages in place that enable the Group Continue to have oversight of the approach of reviewing to have an integrated approach to the governance of our the effectiveness of our Board, board committees, banking subsidiaries.
These linkages work through both formal individual directors and Group Chairman, including the and informal channels of communication.
There are two-way proposed 2013 independent facilitated Board information ows between the Board and its banking effectiveness review subsidiaries.
For example, the annual calls hosted by the Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive Of cer and the Audit Continue to review governance trends across the Committee Chairman are particularly important channels Groups footprint of communication, and provide our subsidiary independent non-executive directors with an opportunity to interact and receive an overview of the Groups key priorities and issues.
Feedback indicates that these calls bring real value to the subsidiary independent non-executive directors and contribute to ensuring continued alignment across the banking subsidiaries, between the Groups overall strategic directions and country priorities.
In addition, when directors travel across our network they often meet with directors of our banking subsidiary boards.
In 2012, the chairmen of 11 of our banking subsidiaries across Africa met in China, which resulted in them gaining a much better appreciation of the Groups ability to capture and support trade ows between China and Africa.
1 The US authorities comprise The New York Department of Financial Services DFS, the Of ce of Foreign Assets Control OFAC, the New York County District Attorneys Of ce DANY, the United States Department of Justice DOJ and the Federal Reserve NYFED Corporate governance 157 In addition during 2012, our banking subsidiary boards from Oversight of the lessons learned arising from the 1 mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan met to discuss Greater settlements with the US authorities China strategic opportunities.
The Group Chairman participated The Committee is ful lling a signi cant role in overseeing in this event.
These are just some examples to illustrate the focus the approach taken in relation to lessons learned from the that we place on ensuring appropriate and effective linkages settlements with the US authorities.
Governance oversight between the Board and the boards of the Groups banking for actions has been divided between the Board as a whole subsidiaries.
for those actions with strategic implications and the various board committees.
For example, the Audit Committee will, Board, committee, individual directors and chairman in the ordinary course of its activities, retain oversight of the effectiveness remediation programme agreed as part of the settlements In 2012, the Committee maintained oversight of progress to with the US authorities.
The Brand and Values Committee address actions arising from the 2011 Board effectiveness will continue to oversee any impact on the Groups reputation.
It also conducted a thorough review of the feedback The remuneration-re lated matters arising from the arising from the 2012 Board effectiveness review, ahead of settlements with the US authorities were discussed by the Boards discussion.
As part of its discussions, the Committee received an update 2012 Committee effectiveness review from the Group Chairman on his one-on-one meetings with The Committee discussed its effectiveness at the end of 2012 each director to discuss their individual performance.
The SID and agreed that over the last three years it had provided a also updated the Committee on the process he undertook to useful forum to focus on and discuss key corporate governance review the effectiveness of the Group Chairman.
Further details issues of signi cance to the Group.
on this can be found under the report by the Nomination Committee on page 158.
The Committee has also considered the approach to be followed for the next Board effectiveness review.
Corporate governance trends and emerging best practice Throughout the year, the Committee received regular updates on key developments in the corporate governance environment and trends faced across the Groups footprint.
For example, the Committee has considered the growing trend for more independent directors on banking subsidiary boards, m ore local nationals on boards a nd the trend towards more subsidiary board committees.
Emerging best practice During 2012, there continued to be a steady stream of corporate governance publications and consultations.
The Committee maintained oversight of the approach that has been taken in responding to these.
158 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 1 2 3 Nomination Committee Members Scheduled Ad hoc meetings: 2 meetings: 1 J W Peace Chairman 1 2 2 1 1 J F T Dundas 2 2 2 1 1 46 5 R H P Markham 3 2 2 1 1 R Markland 4 2 2 1 1 1 P A Sands 5 1 1 1 1 P D Skinner 6 2 2 1 1 1 Stepped down as a Committee member with effect from 18 September 2012, Other attendees at Committee meetings include: becoming a permanent invitee Group Head of Human Resources and Communications and the Group Company Secretary.
The Committees role Key areas of focus in 2012 The Nomination Committee is an enabling committee consisting of the Chairman and the chairs of each of the other board Completion of the first phase of our multi-year Board committees.
Our remit covers the review of the structure, size succession plan the Plan and composition of the Board.
Commenced the second phase of the Plan, focusing The Committee is responsible for overseeing the Boards on the next wave of potential appointments including succession planning requirements.
It also oversees the the composition of the board committees identi cation and assessment of potential Board candidates and Continued strong focus on executive succession makes nominations to the Board for its approval as appropriate.
planning, both in the near and medium term In addition, on behalf of the Board, the Committee considers any potential con icts of interest declared by our Board members.
We also keep under review the leadership needs of, and Our priorities for 2013 succession planning for, the Group in relation to both directors and other senior executives, and consider recommendations Delivery of the second phase of our Board succession made by the Group Chief Executive or the Committee for Plan, focusing on successors to Committee Chairs and changes to the executive membership of the Board.
the next wave of independent non-executive appointments Our remit also covers the making of recommendations for the appointment or removal of the Group Chairman, Group Ensure new directors settle into the Board well and that Chief Executive or any director and the terms associated with the Boards strong effectiveness is maintained such recommendations.
Continue to focus on succession plans and development of the executive team Succession planning In 2012, the Committee focused heavily on the first phase of our multi-year Board succession plan.
We intend that, by the end of 2016, there will have been a fundamental refresh of the Boards independent non-executive directors.
Details of progress made can be found on pages 132 and 133.
We conducted a thorough and comprehensive review of the skills and experience of our existing Board members and considered these against our multi-year succession plan to ensure that we have the right balance to support the future development of our business.
This approach enabled us to develop a role pro le to set out the various criteria being sought for future independent non-executive director appointments, including diversity, time commitment and length of tenure.
Corporate governance 159 We engaged the services of two external search rms Ridgeway Rudy Markham as Senior Independent Director conducted a Partners and Lygon Group, both of whom are independent and rigorous review in relation to our Group Chairmans performance.
have signed up to the voluntary Code of Conduct on gender This involved a meeting between the independent non-executive diversity and best practice.
With their support, we compared directors and the feedback provided by the Board as a whole as our role pro le against a broad and diverse pool of candidates.
part of the Board effectiveness review process.
The comments From this, we agreed a shortlist of potential candidates for initial from the Board were set against a backdrop of continued solid interview by our Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group business development, reduced economic growth worldwide, Head of Human Resources and Communications and Group and signi cant increases in public, political and regulatory Company Secretary.
For those candidates with relevant finance scrutiny.
The Board was unanimous in its respect and praise and accounting experience, our Group Finance Director was of Sir Johns leadership throughout these challenges, and he also involved in the interview process.
On the basis of the continues to have the full and unequivocal support of the Board.
initial interviews, we identi ed a more fide ned list of potential Following this meeting, Rudy wrote to the Group Chairman candidates for interview by each of the Committee members.
summarising the feedback and shared a copy of his letter with Throughout the selection process diversity, in all its aspects, the Board.
Committee effectiveness review During the year, the Committee also focused on executive When reviewing our effectiveness, we considered whether the succession plans for the Groups senior management.
This Committee composition was appropriate and agreed that the covered our regional and country Chief Executive Of cers and composition comprising our Chairman and the Chairmen of all business and functional roles that reported to the Group each of our board committees remained appropriate.
We also Management Committee, from January 2013 the Executive considered the quality and volume of the information we receive Management Group.
and the mechanisms used to ensure that the Board as a whole In addition, the Chairman and the independent non-executive is kept up to date regarding both executive and independent directors met on several occasions where one of the main topics non-executive succession planning.
In both cases, we satis ed of conversation was executive succession.
One outcome of this ourselves that these were appropriate and should continue to was a number of executive changes announced in January 201 3 be an area of focus going forward.
including the appointment of Tracy Clarke, Richard Goulding and Jan Verplancke as directors of Standard Chartered Bank.
Situational con icts As part of our remit, the Committee re-appraised the Annual re-election of directors authorisations that had previously been provided to directors Each year, we review the performance of each of the directors for those situations in which he she had, or potentially could seeking annual re-election at our Annual General Meeting.
have in the future, a direct or indirect interest that con icts with As part of this process, our Chairman reports to the Committee the interests of the Company.
on the outcome of his performance evaluation of each The conclusion of the Committees review was that there were individuald irector.
no circumstances that would necessitate the authorisation given As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, we previously being revoked or amended.
conducted a more rigorous assessment of those independent non-executive directors who have served on the board for nine Executive mentoring and development or more years.
This assessment included Jamie Dundas, Rudy We continue to support the programme whereby a number Markham, Ruth Markland and Paul Skinner a nd was conducted of independent non-executive directors mentor senior leaders.
The relevant directors recused This programme was first introduced in 2010 with the aim themselves from this conversation.
It was con rmed that each of providing development support to a number of our most of the directors remain independent.
Further details of the basis senior high potential leaders.
It also allows our independent for this conclusion are provided on page 133. non-executive directors to gain a more in-depth perspective of the strengths and capabilities of these individuals.
In 2012, the programme involved five independent non-executive directors and five senior leaders.
