SVG Capital plc Annual report 40 2012 Corporate governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and has implemented a framework for corporate governance which it considers to be appropriate for the Company.
This framework is reviewed on an annual basis as part of the Board evaluation process and will be reviewed in light of any changes to the Companys strategy.
The Corporate Governance Code the Code, published in June 2010 by the Financial Reporting Council FRC, applies to disclosures in this statement.
The Code is available to download from www.
Plans and processes to meet the heightened requirements of the September 2012 update to the Corporate Governance Code are being developed.
These requirements become affective for financial years commencing after 1 October 2012.
Compliance Statement The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to disclose how they have complied with the provisions of the Code.
This Corporate governance statement, together with the Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 32 and Going concern set out on page 43, indicates how the Company has complied with the principles of good governance of the Code and its requirements on risk management and internal control.
The Board considers that the Company has, throughout the year under review, complied with the principles of the Code other than the requirement that all directors be subject to annual election, which the Company proposes to phase in, as more fully explained on page 41 under Tenure.
Role of the Chairman The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
During the course of the year, Nicholas Ferguson retired as Chairman of the Company.
Andrew Sykes was appointed as his successor.
Thisappointment was made following a thorough selection process led by the Senior Independent Director.
An external search rm TheZygos Partnership, was retained by the Company to ensure a wide range of potential candidates was considered in compiling a long-list.
The Zygos Partnership has no other connection to the Company.
The Nominations Committee met on several occasions to narrow the long-list to a short-list of suitably qualied candidates.
These candidates were interviewed by all members of the Nominations Committee.
Mr Sykes, as an existing non-executive Director, interviewed all the short-listed candidates and participated in that part of the Nominations Committee meeting that considered the merits of the external candidates.
Mr Sykes excused himself from the proceedings of the Committee that considered his merits and considered who the role should be offered to.
The rest of the Committee were unanimous in agreeing that the role should be offered to Mr Sykes.
As part of the process, the Committee considered Mr Sykes independence, and concluded he is an effective member of the Board and clearly independent, notwithstanding his directorship of SVGA.
Role of the Board The Board determines and monitors the Companys investment objectives and policy, decides on individual fund investments and considers the future strategic direction of the Company.
The Board is responsible for presenting a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and, where appropriate, future prospects in annual and half-yearly reports and other forms of public reporting.
It monitors and reviews the shareholder base of the Company, marketing and shareholder communication strategies, and evaluates the performance of all service providers, with input from its Committees where appropriate.
The business of the Company is managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers of the Company including those powers relating to the issuing or buying back of shares.
Further details of the authorities to be sought at the AGM with respect to issuing or buying back shares can be found on pages 96 to 97.
A procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company has been agreed.
Composition and independence A At 31 December 2012, there was one executive and four non-executive Directors, including the Chairman.
Proles of each of the Directors, including length of service, may be found on pages 28 and 29.
The Board considers each of Stephen Duckett, Caroline Goodall and Charles Sinclair to be independent.
A A review of Board composition and balance, including succession planning for appointments to the Board, is included as part of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of which may be found below.
The Board is satisfied that it is of sufficient size, with an appropriate balance of skills and experience, and that no individual or group of individuals is or has been in a position to dominate decision making.
SVG Capital plc Business Corporate Financial Company Annual report Overview review information information information 2012 41 Charles Sinclair was appointed Senior Independent Director on 4 March 2009.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
Company Secretary The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board, inter alia, for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Tenure The Directors have adopted a policy on tenure that they consider appropriate for the Company as a self-managed investment trust.
The Board does not believe that length of service, by itself, impacts on independence.
The independence of non-executive Directors will continue to be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
While the Code recommends that all directors be subject to annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting, the Directors believe that it is appropriate to introduce annual re-election on a phased basis.
The Company will introduce annual re-election for each director when he or she is next due for re-election.
This year, four of the five directors will be subject to ongoing annual re-election.
At the AGM in 2014, the remaining director will be subject to ongoing annual re-election with the other directors.
Accordingly the current policy of Directors retiring by rotation at least every three years will end.
The Companys articles provide that in addition to any power of removal conferred by the Companies Act 2006, the Company may by special resolution remove any director.
The Company may by ordinary resolution elect a director.
Induction and training When a Director is appointed he or she receives a full, formal and tailored induction.
This includes a detailed brieng from the Company Secretary on the running of the Board covering such matters as terms of reference, governance practices, risk management and oversight, and calendar of events.
In addition meetings are arranged with various members of management to facilitate a better understanding of the business.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Advisers to the Company also prepare reports for the Board from time to time.
In addition, Directors may attend ad hoc seminars covering issues and developments relevant to the Company.
The suitability and adequacy of training that is made available to Directors isassessed as part of the performance evaluation process.
It was assessed as adequate in the most recent evaluation.
Performance evaluation The Board performance evaluation at the end of 2011 identied the importance of reviewing the composition of the Board and the Board committees in light of the new strategy which has been proposed to and subsequently approved by shareholders.
In addition, anumber of practical suggestions were made to improve information ows and risk management practices, thereby improving risk management and governance.
A list of action points to deal with these suggestions was implemented under the direction of the Chairman.
During the course of the year, various changes to the composition of the Board and Committees were made.
In 2012, the Board has again adopted a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
This year, the evaluation process was completed in December 2012 and the results reviewed by the Board in early 2013.
The process was led by Caroline Goodall, one of the Companys independent non-executive Directors.
The process involved compiling a discussion guide which covered designated topics, with a particular focus this year on the development of strategy, corporate governance and risk management.
A written report was produced and discussed with the Chairman, before being sent to Board members and discussed at the following Board meeting.
Overall the evaluation process confirmed that each Director continued to contribute to his or her role effectively and with proper commitment, including of time.
The evaluation process specically addressed diversity, including gender, within the Board.
The Board was in agreement that it had an appropriate level of diversity, but that this should be kept under review.
The Board has considered carefully whether the evaluation of its performance should be externally facilitated at least once every three years.
It was decided that due to the appointment of a new Chairman and other Board changes during the year, it was not appropriate to undertake an external review of the Boards effectiveness in 2012.
This years evaluation indicated that the Board and its Committees were operating more effectively.
With the adoption of the Companys new strategy, the Boards focus will move more towards implementation.
Risk and its effective management has received increased attention during the year and this should continue.
This composition of the Board should be kept under review, to ensure it has the right combination of skills and experience to implement the new strategy.
Information ows Management reports to the Board on at least a quarterly basis and as appropriate on specic matters.
The Chairman ensures that Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory requirements, and the Companys risk management and control results.
The Board receives and considers reports regularly from its advisers and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
SVG Capital plc Annual report 42 2012 Corporate governance continued Insurance and Indemnities During the year, the Company maintained cover for its Directors and Ofcers under a directors and ofcers liability insurance policy.
The Company provides a Deed of Indemnity to each Director to the extent permitted by United Kingdom law whereby the Company agrees to indemnify such Director against any liability incurred in proceedings in which the Director is successful, and for costs in defending a claim brought against the Director for breach of duty where the Director acted honestly and reasonably.
Conicts of interest In the light of changes to the law resulting from the implementation of the Companies Act 2006, the Board has approved a policy onDirectors conicts of interest.
Under this policy, the Directors are required to disclose all actual and potential conicts of interest totheBoard as they arise for consideration and approval.
The Board may impose restrictions or refuse to authorise such conicts if deemed appropriate.
Committees The Board has delegated certain responsibilities and functions to Committees.
Terms of Reference for each of these Committees are available on the Companys website at www.
Details of membership of the Committees at 31 December 2012 may befound on pages 28 and 29 and information regarding attendance at Committee meetings during the year under review may be f foundbelow.
Given the reduced size of the Board, it was decided that all non-executive Directors and the Chairman should sit on the A Audit Committee.
For the same reason, it was decided that the Chairman should sit on the Remuneration Committee.
A Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee is to ensure that the Company maintains the highest standards of integrity and competence in financial reporting, risk management and internal control.
The Board considers each member of the Committee to be independent.
The Board also considers that members of the Committee have competence in accounting.
To discharge its duties, the Committee met on four occasions during the year ended 31 December 2012 and considered the annual financial statements, the half-yearly financial statements and the quarterly valuation update, the external Auditors year end reports and management letters, the effectiveness of the audit process, the independence and objectivity of the external Auditor including the provision of non-audit services by the auditors, the risk management processes and risk prole of the Group and the internal audit review process.
A As at 31 December 2012, members of the Committee had competence in accounting.
Meetings The Board held eight meetings during 2012.
A Attendance at the Board and Committee meetings was as set out below: Audit Remuneration Nominations Director Board Committee Committee Committee Stephen Duckett 4 6 2 3 3 4 1 2 Nicholas Ferguson 5 5 N A N A 0 2 Francis Finlay 2 2 N A 2 2 0 0 Lynn Fordham 8 8 N A N A 2 2 Caroline Goodall 8 8 N A 6 6 2 2 Edgar Koning 4 8 N A N A 0 2 Denis Raeburn 2 2 1 1 2 2 0 0 Charles Sinclair 8 8 4 4 N A 2 2 A Andrew Sykes 8 8 4 4 3 4 2 2 The Board is satisfied that each of the Chairman and the other non-executive Directors commit sufficient time to the affairs of the Company to full their duties as Directors.
Mr Koning had an executive role with Aegon in the Netherlands which from time to time made attending Board meetings difficult.
Mr Duckett had one pre-existing commitment prior to joining the Board that prevented him f from attending oneof the Board meetings and the Audit and Remuneration Committee meetings on the same day.
In addition one Board meeting wasconvened on short notice which Mr Duckett was unable to attend.
In the event that a Director does notattend the Chairman and orthe Chief Executive will contact him prior to and following the meeting to keep him apprised and seek his views on the matters to bediscussed.
SVG Capital plc Business Corporate Financial Company Annual report Overview review information information information 2012 43 As mentioned above, the Board is comfortable it has an appropriate level of diversity for the Companys current strategy.
It will seek to maintain at least a 25% proportion of female board membership.
It currently has a 40% proportion of female board membership and a high percentage of women throughout the organisation.
In addition the Companys subsidiaries monitor diversity and in particular adopt policies such as exible working arrangements and enhanced maternity pay to encourage gender diversity.
Remuneration Committee The role of the Committee is to determine remuneration policy throughout the SVG Group and to operate the Companys Share Awards Schemes.
To discharge its duties, the Committee met formally on six occasions during the year ended 31 December 2012 and considered the remuneration of the new Chairman, the approval of annual bonus proposals and long-term incentives for the executive Directors, and key staff based on performance levels within one organisation in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012.
Nominations Committee The role of the Committee is to consider and make recommendations to the Board on the Boards composition and balance of skill and experience, and on individual appointments, to lead the process and make recommendations to the Board.
To discharge its duties, the Committee met twice during the year ended 31 December 2012 and considered an evaluation of the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company in the Board succession planning and the appointment of the new Chairman.
Relations with shareholders The Board believes that the maintenance of good relations with both institutional and retail shareholders is important for the prospects of the Company.
It has, since its launch, sought engagement with investors.
The Chief Executive and Chairman and other Directors, where appropriate, discuss governance and strategy with major shareholders and the Chairman ensures communication of shareholders views to the Board.
The Board also undertakes shareholder perceptions research from time to time.
The Board believes that the Annual General Meeting provides an appropriate forum for investors to communicate with the Board, and encourages participation.
The Annual Report and Accounts is, when possible, sent to shareholders at least 20 business days before the Annual General Meeting, which is normally attended by the full Board of Directors.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders toquestion the chairmen of the Board, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Details of proxy votes received in respect of each resolution are made available to shareholders at the meeting.
The Board believes that the Companys policy of reporting to shareholders as soon as possible after the Companys year end is valuable.
The notice of AGM at page 94 sets out the business of the meeting.
Going concern The Groups activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans statement on pages 10 and 11, the Chief Executives report on pages 12 and 13 and the Business Review on pages 14 to 25.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review onpage16.
In addition note 28 to the financial statements includes details of the Groups financial instruments and its risk prole.
Adescription of the Groups risks and risk management framework are also outlined in the Business Review on pages 24 to 25.
The Group nished the year with cash balances of 269.4 million and has access to an additional 150.0 million through the Revolving Credit Facility to December 2015.
This adequately covers the 91.7 million of uncalled commitments to the investment portfolio.
In light of the Groups financial resources, the Directors believe that the Group is well positioned to manage its business risks within the Groups risk appetite and tolerance successfully despite the continuing uncertain economic outlook, and, after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
SVG Capital plc Annual report 44 2012 Corporate governance continued Internal control The Code requires the Board to at least annually conduct a review of the adequacy of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control processes and report to shareholders that it has done so.
During 2012, the existing Risk Map was adopted to identify, evaluate and manage risks.
The principal risks identied on pages 24 and 25, along with the other risks noted at note 28 to the Accounts provide details of the risks facing the Group.
As part of the risk review process, a full review of the Companys risk management processes and capabilities was undertaken.
A After careful evaluation of new and emerging risk oversight expectations for boards in the UK and globally a new group risk managementpolicy and approach was developed and approved by the Board at the February 2013 meeting.
A copy of the Groups newrisk management policy is available on the Companys website at www.
The Board believes that implementation of this enhanced approach to identifying, measuring, treating, and overseeing risks that create uncertainty that the Groups key strategic and core objectives will be achieved, will signicantly enhance the Groups risk management and oversight capabilities and provide additional assurance to our shareholders, clients, and regulators globally.
The Board has appointed Deloitte LLP to provide internal audit support and management are required to provide appropriate support to Deloitte LLP in its effort.
The Board believes that the combination of the Groups new risk management framework, together with the work undertaken by Deloitte are appropriate to the Groups business as an investment trust.
The Board considers that adequate risk mitigation controls exist over the financial reporting process.
A single team is responsible for preparing and consolidating the financial reporting for each of the Group entities and ensuring that financial information is accurate, complete, reconciled and reviewed by senior members of staff, and that transactions and balances are recognised and measured on a consistent basis and in accordance with accounting policies and financial reporting standards.
Although the Board believes that it has a robust framework of internal control over financial reporting in place, this can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial mis-statement or loss and is designed to manage, not eliminate, risk.
