20 Corporate governance The Group recognises the importance of high standards of corporate For the whole of the 2011 12 financial year the roles of Chairman governance and is committed to operating within an effective and Chief Executive were both held by Lord Harris.
Lord Harris had corporate governance framework through the operation of Board held both roles since the Company was established.
The Board was committees, internal procedures and Group policies.
This report, content for this to continue while Lord Harris remained full time the Audit Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration with the Company because of his long-standing and leading position Report, explain how the Company has applied the principles set out in the floorcovering sector.
The role of the Senior Independent in the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Director SID had been developed to provide a counter-balance Reporting Council.
The structure of the Board and its Committees is set out below: It was, however, always the intention that when Lord Harris stepped down from the role of Chief Executive, it would be split from that of Carpetright plc Board of Directors Chairman.
Lord Harris, who will be 70 years old this year, ceased to be Chief Executive when Darren Shapland was appointed to the role of Chief Executive in May 2012.
Lord Harris remains as Chairman and will work four days per week in support of Darren Shapland in Audit Nomination Remuneration Customer specific areas of the business.
A formal statement on the division of Committee Committee Committee and Corporate Responsibility responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive has been 1 Committee adopted by the Board and this makes it clear that the Chief Executive has the responsibility and accountability for running the business.
This Committee is being created with effect from 1 July 2012.
It is anticipated that the Chairmans active involvement will decrease over time as his knowledge and experience is effectively transferred The Board to the Chief Executive and his management team.
The Board currently consists of the Chairman, three Executive and four Non-Executive Directors, brief biographies of whom can be In order to facilitate the transition of the Company to the new found on page 19.
Changes to the composition of the Board since governance arrangements, Baroness Noakes, who has been the SID 28 April 2012 can be found below.
There is a formal, rigorous and since 2004, has also assumed the role of Deputy Chairman.
She will transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to continue to play an active role in determining the agenda for the the Board and this is described in the section concerning the Board, the Board appraisal process and in ensuring that any issues Nomination Committee on pages 21 and 22. raised by the Non-Executive Directors are dealt with.
She will also keep under review the division of responsibilities between the A quarter of the Board is female 2 out of 8.
Chairman and Chief Executive so that it works well in practice.
All Directors will offer themselves for election or re-election at the The Board believes that its current size and structure are appropriate Annual General Meeting in accordance with the UK Corporate for managing the Group in an effective and successful manner.
order to achieve this size and structure Claire Balmforth and Andy The Non-Executive Directors of the Company play a key Corden both stood down from the Board on 11 May 2012.
They governance role and bring an extra dimension to the Boards retain their full executive responsibilities for the UK and European deliberations.
The Board has considered the independence of businesses respectively.
each Non-Executive Director against the criteria specified in A process of evaluation of the Board and its Audit, Nomination the UK Corporate Governance Code and determined that each and Remuneration Committees has been undertaken.
The exercise remains fully independent.
The Board in particular considered to evaluate the performance of the Board was led by the SID, and the independence of both Baroness Noakes and Alan Dickinson, those of the Audit and Remuneration Committees were led by the both of whom are considered by the Board to be independent chairmen of those committees.
The results of these assessments in character and judgment.
have been considered by the Board and confirmed the strength of In reaching this determination the Board specifically considered the leadership within the business and a sound governance framework.
facts that Baroness Noakes is a Non-Executive Director of the Royal Only minor changes to the way that the Board works were Bank of Scotland, the Companys principal banker, and she has found necessary.
served as a Director of the Company for more than nine years from the date of her first election and Alan Dickinson was, within the last three years, a senior employee of the Royal Bank of Scotland.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Overview Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Financial Statements Financial statements Business r Business review eview Gover Governance finance 21 The Non-Executive Directors generally meet privately with Day-to-day management is delegated to the Chief Executive who the Chairman at least twice each year.
The Non-Executive Directors chairs an Executive Committee.
Other members of the Executive meet, with no Executive Directors present, at least once each year Committee are the Group Finance Director, Group Commercial inter alia to review the performance of the Chairman.
Director, the Operations Directors for each of the UK and the Rest of Europe and the Company Secretary.
Details of the number of meetings and Board attendance are set out below: Directors receive monthly trading results, commentary, briefing notes and reports for their consideration in advance of each Board Number of Meetings in the 2011 12 financial year: 8 meeting, including reports on the Groups operations, to ensure Maximum number that they remain briefed on the latest developments and are able of Meetings the Director could to make fully informed decisions.
Directors Attendance have attended All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Lord Harris Chairman 88 Company Secretary and the Board has established a procedure 1 whereby Directors may take independent professional advice at the Darren Shapland Companys expense.
In addition, such advice may include training Chief Executive 55 in order to enable them to discharge their roles and responsibilities Neil Page as Directors.
All new Directors receive an induction tailored Group Finance Director 88 to their particular requirements.
Martin Harris Group Commercial Director 88 Board committees 2 The Board has three Committees, each of which has written terms Baroness Noakes of reference which are available on the Companys corporate website Deputy Chairman and Senior www.
An additional Committee, a Customer Independent Director 88 and Corporate Responsibility Committee, is being created with Alan Dickinson effect from 1 July 2012, and will be chaired by Sandra Turner.
Its Independent Non-Executive Director 88 other members will be Baroness Noakes, David Clifford, Darren Sandra Turner Shapland, Martin Harris and Claire Balmforth.
Independent Non-Executive Director 88 The Board periodically reviews the membership of its Committees 3 David Clifford to ensure that Committee membership is refreshed.
The Company Independent Non-Executive Director 4 4 provides the Committees with sufficient resources to undertake 4 their duties.
The Company Secretary or his nominee acts as Claire Balmforth Secretary to each Committee.
88 Former Director 5 The role of the Audit Committee, its members and details of how Andy Corden Former Director 88 it carried out its duties are set out in the Audit Committee report on page 24.
6 Guy Weston Former Director 2 3 The role of the Remuneration Committee, its members and 7 details of how it carried out its duties are set out in the Directors Christian Sollesse remuneration report on pages 25 to 31.
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 8 September 2011 and appointed as Chief The Nomination Committee is chaired by Baroness Noakes.
Executive with effect from 14 May 2012.
Details of its membership and attendance are set out below: 2.
Appointed as Deputy Chairman with effect from 14 May 2012.
Number of Meetings in the 2011 12 financial year: 3 3.
Appointed 3 May 2011, resigned 11 May 2012. of Meetings the member could 5.
Committee Chairman 33 Lord Harris 33 The Board is responsible for setting the Groups objectives and policies, providing effective leadership and approving the Group Alan Dickinson strategy, budgets, business plans and major capital expenditure.
It appointed 8 September 2011 22 has responsibility for the management, direction and performance Guy Weston of the Group and is accountable to the Companys shareholders for resigned 8 September 2011 11 the proper conduct of its business.
The Board has a formal schedule which sets out those matters requiring Board approval and specifically reserved to it for decision.
uk 22 Corporate governance continued to professional development provided by external bodies and The role of the Nomination Committee is to: their continuing competence is considered by the Nomination identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board: Committee as part of the annual process of recommending the reappointment of Directors at the AGM.
fill vacancies: and make recommendations to the Board on Board composition Risk Management and Internal Controls and balance.
External search consultants are generally The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of appointed to assist in the search process.
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order to fulfil this responsibility and safeguard shareholder investment and the Companys and the Groups assets, the Directors have established The Committee considers the diversity of the Board and the an organisational framework with clear operational procedures, skills and competencies of the existing Directors when drawing lines of responsibility and delegated authority which has operated up specifications for new appointments.
It ensures that the throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval development needs of Executive Directors and other senior of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The system of internal control is designed to identify, evaluate The Committee also considers whether Directors due to retire and manage significant risks associated with the achievement of at an Annual General Meeting should be recommended for the Groups objectives.
Because of the limitations inherent in any reappointment, and whether the appointment of Non-Executive system of internal control, this system is designed to meet the Directors reaching the end of their three-year term should Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed be renewed.
Committee members do not vote on their rather than eliminate risk altogether.
Consequently it can only own reappointment.
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material An external search consultancy was used in relation to the misstatement or loss.
appointment of David Clifford as a Non-Executive Director.
The Board has reviewed the Groups systems of internal controls Darren Shapland was already known to the Committee from his including financial, operational and compliance controls as well previous role as Finance Director of the Company and he was as risk management, and is satisfied that these accord with the approached directly to become a Non-Executive Director.
guidance on internal controls set out in Internal Control: Revised In relation to the appointment of Darren Shapland as Chief Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, issued by the Executive, the Non-Executive Directors, together with Lord Harris, Financial Reporting Council in October 2005. had examined the external market with a firm of headhunters a The day-to-day responsibility for managing risk and the couple of years ago and concluded that it was unlikely that a suitable maintenance of the Groups system of internal control is collectively candidate with specialist knowledge of the floorcoverings market assumed by the Executive Directors.
An Executive Directors existed and that, if the external route were followed, a non-specialist Group EDs Group comprising the Executive Directors and retailer would have to be considered.
This presented a degree of risk senior managers was established to review key risk and control which the Non-Executive Directors preferred to avoid.
The EDs Group met quarterly.
Following Darren Shapland joining the Board in September 2011 With effect from 1 July 2012, an Executive Risk Group, comprising it was clear to the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman that the members of the Executive Committee and other senior he had both extensive retail experience and specific knowledge of managers, will take over the work of the EDs Group.
Carpetright and thus provided a good option to consider as Chief Executive.
That led to a decision to approach him in respect of the Several key processes exist within the Group to ensure a sound role in late 2011. system of internal control, which is described below: Continuing Professional Development Identification of business risks All Board members are updated on matters relevant to the Group, The Board is responsible for identifying the major business risks including legal and regulatory developments, and members of Board faced by the Group, and determining a suitable response.
The EDs committees are updated on matters relevant to their committee Group identifies and assesses risks to the Groups medium-term membership.
In the year the Remuneration Committee received strategy.
The EDs Group directs both the UK and European Risk updates on current best practice from New Bridge Street, and the Management Committees to address each of the identified risks, Audit Committee received a briefing relating to the Bribery Act and formulate a mitigation strategy and assess the likely impact of such the controls that have been put in place.
The EDs Group provides regular reports to the Audit Committee.
The performance of individual Directors is considered as part of the annual Board appraisal process.
The individual development needs The UK Risk Management Committee and the European Risk of Executive Directors are overseen by the Nomination Committee, Management Committee each comprise a small number of the which includes the Chairman.
Non-Executive Directors have access senior management team as regular members, who are able to call Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Overview Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Financial Statements Financial statements Business r Business review eview Gover Governance finance 23 on the expertise of other managers as required.
Each Committee, A review of the consolidation and financial statements is completed which meets at least quarterly, regularly reviews the risk by management to ensure that the financial position and results of management and control processes within its territory.
They the Group are appropriately reflected.
The preliminary and interim consider the response to the significant risks which have been results are subject to review by the Audit Committee prior to identified by management and others, and monitor the maintenance approval by the Board.
of a control environment directed towards the proper management of risk.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital and significant shareholders The principal risks and uncertainties affecting the business are set can be found on page 33. out on pages 15 and 16.
Statement of Compliance Health and safety During the period ended 28 April 2012 the Company complied Enforcing the health and safety policy is a high priority for with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance management and fully descriptive manuals are available to all Code except as set out below.
team members, supported by a training programme for stores, distribution centres and the central support office.
Risk assessments The Company did not comply with provision B.
1.2 of the UK are undertaken for all procedures and safe systems of work devised Corporate Governance Code for the entire period as for the for all procedures involving physical risk.
Failure to adhere to safe period between May 2011 and November 2011 at least half the systems of work or following unsafe working practices will be Board did not comprise Non-Executive Directors determined subject to review and, if necessary, disciplinary proceedings.
Health by the Board to be independent.
This imbalance was addressed and safety issues are included as part of the internal audit review of upon the appointment of Darren Shapland and David Clifford all premises.
as Non-Executive Directors in September 2011 and December 2011 respectively.
Internal audit The Company did not comply with provision A.
2.1 of the UK The internal audit function: Corporate Governance Code for the entire period as the roles of undertakes its work, both on central functions and in the field, Chairman and Chief Executive were combined, an explanation based on a risk assessment model: for which is set out above.
The roles were separated in May 2012. provides the Audit Committee and the Board with objective assurance on the control environment across the Group: and monitors adherence to the Groups key policies and principles.
Planning The Groups planning process underpins the development of the annual budget.
The budget is reviewed and approved formally by the Board.
Actual performance is reported on a monthly basis and measured against the budget and the prior year and a detailed explanation of significant variances is provided.
Control procedures The Group has control procedures designed to provide a complete and accurate record of financial transactions, to ensure correct accounting and to minimise the possible exposure to fraudulent transactions.
The Board believes that the measures taken, including physical controls, separation of duties and management reviews, provide suitable assurance.
Any issues raised by the Groups auditors or the internal audit function are fully reviewed and considered.
Management and specialists within the finance team are responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial records and processes that ensure all financial information is relevant, reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations, and that appropriate information is distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
