24 Audit Committee report The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the approving the audit fees paid to the external auditors and reviewing Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The terms of reference the application of the policy on non-audit work performed by are regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and are then them together with the non-audit fees payable to them: referred to the Board for approval.
These are available on the reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups Companys corporate website at www.
accounts, and approving the terms of engagement for the audit: The Audit Committee is chaired by Baroness Noakes.
The Board reviewing the process for ensuring that senior management has determined that Baroness Noakes and David Clifford have confirm that they have supplied the auditors with relevant recent and relevant financial experience.
Details of membership audit information: and attendance are set out below: reviewing the internal audit plan, monitoring the delivery of Number of Meetings in the 2011 12 financial year: 4 that plan during the year and reviewing the effectiveness of Maximum number of Meetings the the internal audit function: member could Members Attendance have attended reviewing the work of the EDs Group, which oversees the Baroness Noakes identification and management of the risks to the business, 1 Committee Chairman 4 4 together with reports on the Groups systems of internal Alan Dickinson 4 4 control, and reporting the results of this review to the Board: David Clifford reviewing its terms of reference and effectiveness: 1 from 1 December 2011 2 2 reviewing the whistleblowing policy and relevant items 2 Sandra Turner 4 4 reported under that policy: and Guy Weston receiving a briefing relating to the Bribery Act and the controls until 8 September 2011 1 2 that have been put in place.
David Clifford will chair the Audit Committee from 1 July 2012.
Baroness Noakes will remain a member of the Committee.
The Audit Committee and Board place great emphasis on 2.
Sandra Turner will cease to be a member of the Committee with effect from the independence and objectivity of the Groups auditors, 1 July 2012.
 LLP, when performing their role in the All members of the Audit Committee are independent NonGroups reporting to shareholders.
The external auditors report to the Executive Directors.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Audit Committee annually on their independence from the Company.
Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of The Audit Committee reviews the independence, objectivity and Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditors performance of the auditors annually, including the annual report on regularly attended meetings.
Other Directors and senior managers the auditors produced by the Audit Inspection Unit of the Financial also attend if required.
There were also regular private meetings with Reporting Council.
On the basis of that review, the Audit Committee the external and internal auditors without management present.
recommends the reappointment of the auditors to the Board.
The Audit Committee has an agenda linked to events in the Groups  LLP have been auditors to the Company financial calendar and pays particular attention to the financial since 2005 when they were appointed following a competitive tender.
statements for the year, the annual results announcement and the The Company does not have a policy of tendering the external audit results for the half-year set out in the interim statement.
The auditors tenure runs from one AGM to review, these are recommended to the Board for approval.
the next and there are no contractual obligations that restrict the The Audit Committee reviews the consistency of and any changes Committees choice of external auditors.
to the Groups accounting policies, the application of appropriate The Board has also adopted a formal policy on the Companys accounting standards, the methods used to account for significant or relationship with its auditor in respect of non-audit work.
The unusual transactions and areas of significant judgment.
During the auditors may only provide such services provided that such advice year the Audit Committee focused in particular on the judgments does not conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical made in making provision for the impairment of stores and goodwill guidance.
The Audit Committee Chairmans approval is required in the light of difficult trading conditions.
In addition, it examined before the Company uses non-audit services that exceed financial carefully all the other items which are disclosed as exceptional.
limits set out by that policy.
Details of the auditors remuneration for audit work and non-audit fees for the period ended 28 April 2012 During the period ended 28 April 2012, other matters dealt are disclosed in note 3 to the Financial Statements.
with by the Audit Committee were: The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in relation to the reviewing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness accounts is set out on pages 34 to 35.
The Statement by the Auditors of the external auditors and, on the basis of that review, on their responsibilities in respect of the accounts is contained in recommending to the Board their reappointment at their report on page 72. the AGM: The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the reviewing the Groups Corporate Responsibility Report: Annual General Meeting.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2012
