Active investment working for you Corporate governance APPLICATION OF AIC CODE PRINCIPLES There were seven Board meetings, two audit committee The Board attaches great importance to ensuring that the meetings and one nomination committee meeting held Company operates to high ethical and compliance during the year and the attendance by the directors was as standards.
In addition, the Board seeks to observe the follows: principles set out in the AIC Code of Corporate Governance, Number of meetings attended established specifically for investment trust companies and Nomination Board Audit Committee Committee endorsed by the Financial Reporting Council.
By following the Code, the Company continues to meet its obligations in John Reeve 7 2 1 relation to the FRCs UK Corporate Governance Code.
Arthur Copple 7 2 1 The Code provides a guide to best practice in certain June fide Moller 7 2 1 areas of governance where the specific characteristics of Richard Jewson 7 2 1 investment trusts suggest that alternative approaches to Martin Riley 6 2 1 those set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code may be David Webster 7 2 1 preferable.
Independence of the directors COMPLIANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF THE AIC CODE Each of the directors is independent of any association with OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the Manager and has no other relationships or Operation of the Board circumstances which might be perceived to interfere with Each of the directors is independent of any association with the exercise of independent judgement.
Two of the six the Manager which might interfere with the exercise of directors Mr Reeve and Mr Jewson have served on the independent judgement.
There is a formal schedule of Board for more than nine years from the date of their first matters to be specifically approved by the Board and election, but given the nature of the Company as an individual directors may seek independent advice at the investment trust and the strongly independent mindset of expense of the Company within certain limits.
The Board the individuals involved, the Board is firmly of the view that has delegated the investment management, within clearly all of the directors can be considered to be independent.
In defined parameters and dealing limits, and the arriving at this conclusion the Board makes a clear administration of the business to Investec Asset distinction between the activities of an investment trust Management Limited IAM.
The Board makes all strategic and a conventional trading company.
An investment trust decisions, reviews the performance of the Company at has no employees or executive directors, the only Board meetings and sets the objectives for the Manager.
The significant relationship being with the Manager.
In directors have a range of business and financial skills overseeing this relationship it is the view of the Board that or experience relevant to the direction of the Company.
long service aids the understanding, judgement, objectivity Mr R W Jewson is the Senior Independent Director.
and independence of the directors and in no way detracts The Corporate Company Secretary the Company from any of these qualities.
Secretary is responsible to the Board, inter alia, for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and for Re-election of directors compliance with applicable rules and regulations including Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the the AIC Code.
Appointment or removal of the nominated first AGM following their appointment and, thereafter, are representative of the Company Secretary is a matter for the subject to retirement on an annual basis.
In addition, the Board as a whole.
appointment of each director is reviewed by other members The content and presentation of Board papers circulated of the Board every year.
Directors are not, therefore, subject before each meeting contain sufficient information on the to automatic re-appointment.
Non-executive directors are financial condition of the Company.
Key representatives of not appointed for specified terms.
Because of the nature of IAM attend each Board meeting enabling directors to probe an investment trust the Board believes that the on matters of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
contribution and independence of a director is not diminished by long service and, conversely, that a more detailed knowledge of the Company and its business has a beneficial impact.
The Board has carefully considered the position of each of the directors and believes it would be appropriate for them to be proposed for re-election.
Each of the directors continues to be effective and to display an undiminished enthusiasm and commitment to the role.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 23 Active investment working for you Corporate governance continued Audit committee Board audit committee nomination The audit committee is a formally constituted committee committee director ongoing evaluation of the Board with defined terms of reference which are On an annual basis the Board formally reviews its available for inspection at the AGM and can be inspected at performance, together with that of the audit and the registered office of the Company.
It normally meets nomination committees and the effectiveness and twice yearly and among its specific responsibilities are a contribution of the individual directors, including the review of the audit plan for the year, the review of the Chairman, within the context of service on those bodies.
Companys annual and half yearly results, together with The review encompasses an assessment of how cohesively associated documentation, and the review of the internal these bodies work as a whole as well as the performance of and financial controls applicable to the management the individuals within them.
On the basis of these reviews company.
The committee also reviews the cost the Board has concluded that it has a proper balance of effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the auditor skills and is operating effectively.
with particular regard to non-audit fees, of which there were 6,600 in the current financial year 2011: nil.
All of Relations with shareholders the directors are members of the audit committee and the Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Chairman is Mr Jewson.
The Board believes that it is Board and the Manager.
The principal medium by which the appropriate for the Company Chairman to be a member of Company communicates with shareholders is through the the audit committee as it is important for him to be half yearly reports, annual reports and interim management conversant with the detailed discussion related to the statements.
The information contained therein is annual and interim report processes, including his own supplemented by daily NAV announcements and by a Statements to shareholders.
The Board is satisfied that monthly fact sheet available on the Companys website.
The Board largely delegates responsibility for members of the audit committee have relevant and recent financial experience to fulfil their role effectively.
The communication with shareholders to the management auditor, who the Board has identified as being independent, company and, through feedback, expects to be able to is invited to attend the audit committee meeting at which develop an understanding of their views.
Members of the the annual accounts are considered and any other meetings Board are willing to meet with shareholders for the purpose that the committee deems necessary.
of discussing matters in relation to the operation and prospects of the Company.
Nomination committee The Board encourages investors to attend the AGM and A nomination committee has been established to oversee a welcomes questions and discussion on issues of concern or formal review procedure governing the appointment of new areas of uncertainty.
In addition, special arrangements have directors and to evaluate the overall composition of the been established to allow Temple Bar Savings Scheme Board from time to time, taking into account the existing investors to participate fully at AGMs.
A separate resolution balance of skills and knowledge.
will be proposed at the AGM in respect of each substantially The committee is also responsible for assessing the separate issue.
Following the formal AGM proceedings the individual performance of directors and for making Manager makes a presentation to the meeting outlining the recommendations as to whether they should remain in key investment issues that face the Company.
This committee is chaired by Mr Reeve.
Management engagement committee As all the directors are fully independent of the management company, the Board as a whole fulfils the function of a management engagement committee.
24 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Active investment working for you Corporate governance continued Accountability, internal controls and audit Stewardship engagement The Board pays careful attention to ensuring that all The Manager recognises its wider stewardship documents released by the Company, including the Annual responsibilities to its clients as a major asset owner.
To this Report, present a fair and accurate assessment of the end, it supports the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out Companys position and prospects.
the responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect The directors are responsible for the Companys system of investee companies.
Under the Code, managers should: of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge order to facilitate the control process the Board has their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: requested the Manager to confirm annually that it has disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: conducted the Companys affairs in compliance with the monitor their investee companies: legal and regulatory obligations which apply to the establish clear guidelines on how they escalate Company and to report on the systems and procedures engagement: within IAM which are applicable to the management of be willing to act collectively with other investors where Temple Bars affairs.
The Board meets on seven scheduled appropriate: occasions in each year and at each meeting receives have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their sufficient financial and statistical information to enable it voting record: and to monitor adequately the investment performance and report to clients.
The Manager endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK The Board has also established a series of investment investments and supports the principles as best practice parameters, which are reviewed annually, designed to limit elsewhere.
The Manager believes that regular contact with the risk inherent in managing a portfolio of investments.
the companies in which it invests is central to its The safeguarding of assets is entrusted to an independent investment process and it also recognises the importance of reputable custodian with whom the holdings are regularly being an active owner on behalf of its clients.
The Manager believes that companies should act in a The effectiveness of the overall system of internal socially responsible manner.
Although its priority at all control is reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
Such a times is the best economic interests of its clients, it system can provide only reasonable and not absolute recognises that, increasingly, non-financial issues such as assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board social and environmental factors have the potential to believes that there is a robust framework of internal impact the share price, as well as the reputation of controls in place to meet the requirements of the AIC Code.
Specialists within IAMs environmental, social The Board receives reports from its advisers on internal and governance team are tasked with assessing how control matters and does not believe that there is scope or companies deal with and report on social and necessity for an internal audit function in addition to that environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
Based on the foregoing the The Managers Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Company has a continuing process for identifying, Guidelines are available on request from the Company evaluating and managing the risks it faces.
This process has Secretary or can be downloaded from its website.
been in place for the reporting period and to the date of this report and is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 25
