THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued After due consideration, the Board considers that the Directors retirement by rotation and re-election is subject to the Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Company has adequate resources to meet its business Code and the AIC Code of Corporate Governance.
needs and it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Corporate Governance directors will be subject to annual re-election.
Corporate Governance Report The Board has considered the continued appointments of The Board of directors is accountable to shareholders for Mr Salsbury, who has served on the Board for fourteen the governance of the Companys affairs.
years and Ms Burton who has served on the Board for ten years.
They have no other links to the Investment Manager.
Application of the AIC Codes Principles The Board subscribes to the AIC Code view that length of This statement describes how the principles of the UK tenure is not necessarily an issue, rather the directors Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the contribution.
The Board is conscious of the benefits of Financial Reporting Council the FRC in May 2010 have continuity on the Board and believes that retaining directors been applied to the affairs of the Company.
The Code with sufficient experience of both the Company and the can be viewed at www.
markets is of great benefit to shareholders.
Moreover, longIn applying the principles of the Code, the directors have also serving directors are less likely to take a short-term view.
taken account of the Code of Corporate Governance The Board has concluded that Mr Salsbury and Ms Burton published by the AIC, which established the framework of continue to make valuable contributions and, best practice specifically for the Boards of investment trust notwithstanding their length of service, believes that they companies.
There is some overlap in the principles laid down remain independent in character and judgement.
by the two Codes and there are some areas where the AIC Mr Stone, who has served on the Board since 2000, will not Code is more flexible for investment trust companies.
The be seeking re-election and he will retire from the Board of AIC Code can be viewed at www.
directors following the AGM on 24 July 2012.
Following The directors believe that during the period under review Mr Stones retirement from the Board, Ms Burton will they have complied with the provisions of the Code, become the Senior Independent Director of the Trust.
insofar as they apply to the Companys business, and with Mr Seaborn and Mr Spencer, being eligible, will also offer the provisions of the AIC Code.
themselves for re-election in accordance with the UK Composition and Independence of the Board Corporate Governance Code.
The Board has concluded The Board currently consists of seven directors, all of whom that Mr Seaborn and Mr Spencer continue to make are non-executive and are independent of the Investment valuable contributions and believe that they remain Manager.
None of the directors have any other links to the independent in character and judgement.
The Trust believes that diversity of Mr Marrison was appointed to the Board with effect from experience and approach, including gender diversity, 28 September 2011.
Mr Marrison has considerable amongst board members is of great importance and it is the experience in the European property arena and is Head Trusts policy to give careful consideration to issues of board of Europe and Chief Investment officer for LaSalle balance and diversity when making new appointments.
Powers of the directors Mr Watson was appointed to the Board with effect from Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the 1 April 2012.
Mr Watson is a Chartered Accountant and has Companies Act and any directions given by special wide experience in financial services, including the operation resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the and oversight of Unit and Investment Trusts.
He is a nonBoard who may exercise all the powers of the Company, executive director of Charles Taylor Consulting plc, Kames whether relating to the management of the business of the Capital plc and Hermes Fund Managers Limited.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the In accordance with the Articles of Association, resolutions to powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage elect Mr Marrison and Mr Watson will be proposed at the or charge any of its undertakings, property, assets and forthcoming AGM.
uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Accordingly, all directors are regarded as being free of any Company to any third party.
conflicts of interest and no issues in respect of independence arise.
Directors The Chairman is Mr Salsbury.
The directors biographies, Board Committees on page 44, demonstrate the breadth of investment, The Board has established an Audit Committee and a commercial and professional experience relevant to their Management Engagement Committee, which also carries positions as directors of the Company.
out the functions of a Remuneration Committee.
Further 56 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued details are set out below.
The Board does not have a Companys portfolio.
It also reviews the terms of the Nominations Committee.
This function is carried out by the Investment Management Agreement, to ensure they are Board as part of the agenda of regular Board meetings competitive and fair and in the best interests of the when required.
shareholders, and to negotiate terms where appropriate.
At the MEC meeting in March 2012, the MEC confirmed Audit Committee that Thames River should be retained as the Investment The Audit Committee the Committee comprises all the Manager for the financial year ending 31 March 2013. members of the Board.
It has been the Trusts policy, as a small Board, to include all directors on all committees.
This In addition to the Investment Management role, the Board encourages unity, clear communication and prevents has delegated to external third parties the custodial services duplication of discussion between the Board and the Audit which include the safeguarding of assets, the day to day Committee.
The Committee Chairman is Mr Spencer.
The accounting, company secretarial services, administration and Board has satisfied itself that at least one Committee registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered member has recent and relevant financial experience.
into after full and proper consideration of the quality of the services offered, including the control systems in operation The Committee has written terms of reference, which insofar as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
These clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
These can be contracts are reviewed annually by the MEC.
found on the Trusts website, are available on request and will also be available for inspection at the AGM.
In addition to the reviews by the MEC the Board reviews and considers performance reports from the Investment Manager The Committee meets at least twice a year to review the at each Board meeting.
The Board also receives regular internal financial and non-financial controls, to consider reports from the Administrator and Company Secretary and and recommend to the Board for approval the contents of the Investment Manager also reports to the Board on the the draft Interim and Annual Reports to shareholders, and performance of all other third party service providers.
to review the accounting policies and significant financial reporting judgements.
In addition, the Committee reviews Directors Remuneration the Auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, Directors remuneration is reviewed by the MEC on an appointment, remuneration, the quality of the services of annual basis.
The MEC determines and approves the service providers to the Company, and, together with directors fees following proper consideration, having the Investment Manager, reviews the Companys regard to the level of fees payable to non-executive compliance with financial reporting and regulatory directors in the industry generally, the role that individual requirements.
Representatives of the Investment directors fulfil in respect of Board and Committee Managers internal audit and compliance departments may responsibilities and the time committed to the Companys attend these meetings at the Chairmans request.
The results of the most recent review are set out Non-audit fees of 18,000 including VAT were paid to in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 Ernst & Young LLP for tax compliance work.
The Board and 47. monitors the Companys relationship with its external auditor The Companys Articles of Association limit the aggregate with a view to ensuring that the external auditor does not fees payable to the Board to a total of 250,000 per provide non-audit services that have the potential to impair annum.
Detailed information on the remuneration or appear to impair the independence of their audit role.
arrangements for the directors of the Company can be Representatives of Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Auditors, attend the Committee meetings at which the Tenure Policy draft Annual Report and Accounts are reviewed, and are No director has a contract of employment with the given the opportunity to speak to the Committee Company.
Directors terms and conditions for members without the presence of the representatives of appointment are set out in letters of appointment which the Manager.
are available for inspection at the registered office of the The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at Company and will be on display at the AGM.
the AGM to deal with questions relating to the Accounts.
Performance Evaluation Management Engagement Committee The Board evaluation process this year was focused on The Management Engagement Committee MEC identifying where performance had improved and where comprises the Chairman and all directors of the Company.
The MEC meets at least on an annual basis, towards the The performance of the Board, Audit Committee and the end of the financial year.
Questionnaires The MEC reviews, on an annual basis, the performance of were completed by each Member of the Board, Thames River and its continued suitability to manage the externally collated, and the Chairman interviewed board TR Property Investment Trust 57 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued members individually.
The Chairmans effectiveness was The Board assessed by all other board members and views fed The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of back to the Senior Independent Director.
Certain strategic issues are monitored by the Board at meetings against a framework The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director which has been agreed with the Manager.
Additional confirm that the performance of each director continues meetings may be arranged as required.
The Board has a to be effective and demonstrates their commitment to formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its their role.
This includes extensive time for ad hoc decision, which are categorised under various headings, communications throughout the year in addition to including strategy, management, structure, capital, financial formal board and committee meetings.
reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, share The performance of the Company is considered in detail price discount, contracts, investment policy, finance, risk, at each Board meeting.
investment restrictions, performance, corporate governance and Board membership and appointments.
All directors, apart from Richard Stone who is retiring, are offering themselves for re-election at the Companys In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, forthcoming AGM.
It is considered that each of them all directors have full and timely access to relevant merit re-election by shareholders.
At each meeting, the Board reviews the Appointment of New Directors Companys investment performance and considers The directors have determined that, due to the size of the financial analyses and other reports of an operational Board and the independence of each of its members, nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the there is no requirement for a separate Nominations Companys objectives and is responsible for setting asset Committee.
allocation, investment and gearing limits within which the Fund Manager has discretion to act and thus supervises The Board annually reviews its size and structure, and is the management of the investment portfolio, which is responsible for succession planning.
The Board has an contractually delegated to the Investment Manager.
open mind regarding the use of external recruitment consultants or internal process, and has, in the past, The Board has responsibility for the approval of unquoted chosen to combine both routes to ensure best practice.
investments and any investments in in-house funds managed or advised by the Investment Manager.
It has Directors Training also adopted a procedure for directors, in the furtherance When a new director is appointed, he she is offered of their duties, to take independent professional advice at training by the Investment Manager.
Directors are also the expense of the Company.
provided on a regular basis with key information on the Companys activities, including regulatory and statutory Further details of the Boards consideration of key requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting operational matters is contained in the Business Review directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they section of the Report of the Directors on pages 48 to 52. arise.
Directors ensure that they are updated on Conflicts of Interest regulatory, statutory and industry matters.
In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Board has the Board Meetings power to authorise any potential conflicts of interest that The number of meetings of the Board and Committees may arise and impose such limits or conditions as it held during the year under review, and the attendance of thinks fit.
A register of conflicts is maintained and is individual directors, are shown below: reviewed at every Board meeting to ensure all details are kept up-to-date.
Appropriate authorisation will be sought Meetings prior to the appointment of any new director or if any Board Audit MEC new conflicts arise.
of meetings in the year 6 2 1 Internal Controls Peter Salsbury 6 2 1 The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups Caroline Burton 6 2 1 systems of internal controls and for reviewing their Simon Marrison 3 3 1 1 1 effectiveness.
The Manager is responsible for the day to Richard Stone 6 2 1 day investment management decisions on behalf of the Hugh Seaborn 6 2 1 Group.
Accounting and company secretarial services have Paul Spencer 6 2 1 both been outsourced.
The internal controls aim to ensure that assets of the In addition to formal Board and Committee meetings, Group are safeguarded, proper accounting records are directors also attend a number of informal meetings to maintained, and the financial information used within represent the interests of the Company.
the business and for publication is reliable.
Control of 58 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued the risks identified, covering financial, operational, in all of the jurisdictions in which it invests.
Thames River are compliance and risk management, is embedded in the required to include on their website a disclosure about the controls of the Group by a series of regular investment nature of their commitment to the FRCs Stewardship Code performance and attribution statements, financial and and details may be found at www.
risk analyses, fund manager reports and quarterly control Relations with Shareholders reports.
Key risks have been identified and controls put Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the in place to mitigate them, including those not directly Board and the Investment Manager.
The prime medium the responsibility of the Manager.
by which the Company communicates with shareholders The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed on a is through the Interim and Annual Reports which aim to continuing basis by the Compliance and Risk departments provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the of the Manager, the Administrator and the Company Companys activities and their results.
Each maintains its own system of internal is supplemented by the daily calculation of the Net controls, and the Board and Audit Committee receive Asset Value of the Companys Ordinary and Sigma shares regular reports from them.
The control systems which is published at the London Stock Exchange, and are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, interim management statements.
assurance against material misstatement or loss and This information is also available on the Companys to manage, rather than eliminate, risk of failure to website, www.
co. uk together with a monthly achieve objectives.
As the Company has no employees and its operational At each AGM a presentation is made by the Managers functions are undertaken by third parties, the Audit following the business of the meeting.
Shareholders Committee does not consider it necessary for the have the opportunity to address questions to the Company to establish its own internal audit function.
Chairman and the Chairman of the Audit Committee Instead, the Audit Committee relies on internal control at the AGM.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend reports received from its principal service providers to the AGM.
satisfy itself as to the controls in place.
It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and The Board has established a process for identifying, Accounts and Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the Group.
The Board undertakes an annual review of the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance Groups system of internal controls in line with the of the AGM, or to contact the Board at any other time, are Turnbull guidance.
Business risks have also been invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the analysed by the Board and recorded in a risk map that is registered address given on page 96. reviewed regularly.
Each quarter the Board receives a General presentations are given to both shareholders and formal report from each of the Manager, the analysts following the publication of the annual results.
All Administrator and the Company Secretary detailing the meetings between the Manager and shareholders are steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those reported to the Board.
that are not directly their responsibility, and which report the details of any known internal control failures.
The Socially Responsible Investment Board also has direct access to company secretarial Good corporate governance extends to a companys advice and services provided by Capita Company policies on the environment, employment, human rights Secretarial Services, which, through its nominated and community relationships.
Corporations are playing an representative, is responsible for ensuring that the Board increasingly important role in global economic activity and and Committee procedures are followed and that the adoption of good corporate governance enhances a applicable regulations are complied with.
companys economic prospects by reducing the risk of government and regulatory intervention and any ensuing These controls have been in place throughout the period damage to its business or reputation.
under review and up to the date of signing the accounts.
Policies relating to physical property either held directly or Voting Policy by the companies in which the Trust invests, is described The Board has approved a corporate governance voting in the Directors Report under Environmental Policy on policy which, in its opinion, accords with current best page 52. practice whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
The Companys objective remains the long-term maximisation of shareholders total return.
The exercise of voting rights attached to the Trusts portfolio has been delegated to Thames River who take a global Compliance Statement approach to engagement with issuers and their management The directors acknowledge that the Company did not TR Property Investment Trust 59 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued comply with the following provisions of the UK Corporate each director has taken all the steps a director might Governance Code in the year ended 31 March 2012. reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the A.
2.1 Due to the nature and structure of the Company the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Board of non-executive directors does not feel it is necessary to appoint a chief executive.
This information is given and should be interpreted in B.
2.1 The Board does not have a separate Nominations accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Committee.
This function is carried out by the Companies Act 2006.
Board as part of the agenda of regular Board Responsibility statement meetings when required.
Each of the directors listed on page 44 confirm that to C. 3.5 As the Company has no employees and its the best of their knowledge: operational functions are undertaken by third the financial statements, prepared in accordance with parties, the Audit Committee does not consider it IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true necessary for the Company to establish its own and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position internal audit function.
and profit of the Company and the undertakings D. 2.1 The Board does not have a separate Remuneration included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Committee.
The functions of a Remuneration the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the Committee are carried out by the MEC.
development and performance of the business and Statutory Auditor the position of the Trust, together with a description of The Audit Committee is satisfied that Ernst & Young LLP is the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditor will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors The directors who were members of the board at the time of approving the directors report are listed on page 44.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the By order of the Board Companys auditors, each of these directors confirms that: Jonathan Carslake to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, there For and on behalf of is no information that is, information needed by the Capita Company Secretarial Services groups auditors in connection with preparing their report Secretary 8 June 2012 of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and 60 TR Property Investment Trust
