Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Report Independence of Directors The Directors are responsible for the corporate governance of the The Board has determined that all five of the Non-executive Group.
They support the principles of good corporate governance Directors are independent.
and code of best practice laid down in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director has responsibility for dealing with any shareholders who have concerns which Throughout the year ended 31 December 2012 the Board believes it contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive has complied with the principles and provisions recommended by the or Finance Director has failed to resolve, or for which such contact Code.
The manner in which the Company has applied the principles of is inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director good governance set out in the Code is outlined below.
The UK provides a sounding board for the Chairman and is available to act Corporate Governance Code is publicly available at www.
as an intermediary for other Directors when necessary.
DIReCtoRS Induction, professional development and corporate awareness Composition of the Board All Directors receive an induction to the Company on joining the The Board currently comprises two Executive Directors, Board and relevant training is available to Directors to assist them five independent Non-executive Directors and a in the performance of their duties.
The Chairman is responsible for Non-executive Chairman.
ensuring that Directors continually update their skills and knowledge and familiarity with the Company required to fulfil their There were a number of Board changes during 2012: Angela Knight role on the Board and its committees.
The Audit and Remuneration took over from David Clark as Senior Independent Non-executive Committees receive briefings on current developments.
The Director with effect from 6 February 2012: Roger Perkin was Non-executive Directors take advantage of sector and general appointed as a Non-executive Director on 1 July 2012: and Michael conferences and seminars and training events organised by Fallon resigned as a Non-executive Director on 4 September 2012. professional firms and receive circulars and training materials from the Company and other professional advisers.
Regular The Directors biographies on page 27 demonstrate the Boards presentations are made to the Board by members of the depth of experience and skill.
The Non-executive Directors have Companys Executive Committee, arrangements are made for the range of experience and the calibre to exercise independent Non-executive Directors to meet members of the management judgement and contribute to Board discussions.
Five of the teams and they attend the Companys management conferences.
Directors and four of the Non-executive Directors have extensive Non-executive Directors periodically visit the Companys previous experience at a senior level in the financial services international offices, usually in connection with other activities.
sector and three of the Directors are chartered accountants two The Board is kept informed of any material shareholder of whom were audit partners in major firms of accountants : the correspondence, brokers reports on the Company and sector, Finance Director was previously Finance Director of a number of institutional voting agency recommendations and documents other companies.
The Chairman, Keith Hamill, was, at appointment, independent Conflicts of interest of the Company and the management, but, as Chairman, is not The Companys Articles of Association the Articles permit the classified as independent under the Code.
His other significant Board to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a commitments are noted in his biography on page 27.
Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company a Relevant Situation.
The Board has There is a clearly defined and documented division of a formal system in place for Directors to declare Relevant Situations responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
to be considered for authorisation by those Directors who have no The primary responsibility of the Chairman is the leadership of the interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to Board.
The primary responsibility of the Chief Executive is the authorise a Relevant Situation, the non-conflicted Directors must running of the Companys operations, maintaining effective act in the way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to management and the development and implementation of promote the success of the Company, and they may impose limits strategy in order to maximise shareholder value.
or conditions when giving the authorisation or subsequently if they think this is appropriate.
The Board has followed the prescribed The Board allows the Executive Directors to take up appointments procedures in deciding whether, and on what terms, to authorise with other companies on the proviso that the time commitment Relevant Situations and believes that the systems it has in place involved is not too onerous and would not conflict with their duties for reporting and considering Relevant Situations, including an to the Company.
annual review of authorisations, continue to operate effectively.
During the year the independent Non-executive Directors, led by The terms of the Directors service agreements and letters of the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, reviewed the appointment are summarised in the Report on Directors external business commitments of members of the Board and Remuneration set out on pages 35 to 42.
The terms and conditions concluded that none of these gave rise to conflicts of interest or of appointment of the Non-executive Directors will be available for other factors which might affect the effective operation of the inspection during normal business hours on any weekday other Company or the Board.
than public holidays at the Companys offices, and at the AGM from fifteen minutes prior to the meeting until its conclusion.
30 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Chairmans Statement & Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information oversight of the Groups management, governance and Performance evaluation control structure: Reviews of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors in respect of the previous financial year have approval of any material borrowing or commitment: been undertaken.
In this process, consideration was given to whether the Board had the right balance of skills, experience, Board appointments and removals: independence, diversity and knowledge, whether the Board or Committee fulfilled its terms of reference satisfactorily, whether the approval of the prosecution or settlement of all litigation the terms of reference needed to be revised, whether the which is material to the interests of the Group: administration operated effectively, and whether the Board worked together effectively as a unit.
reporting to shareholders: and Performance evaluations of individual Directors were also environmental, social and governance policies, including undertaken which considered the effectiveness and commitment corporate social responsibility policy.
of the individual Directors and the need for any training or development.
In March 2012 and February 2013, the Chairman Beneath the Board there is a structure of delegated authority which formally met the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present to evaluate the performance of the sets out the authority levels allocated to the individual Directors individual Executive Directors.
The Senior Independent Nonand senior management.
executive Director and the other Non-executive Directors met without the Chairman being present to evaluate the Chairmans The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nominations performance, having first obtained feedback from the Executive Committees to which it has delegated some of its responsibilities.
Appropriate feedback was provided following these Each of the Committees has detailed terms of reference, which can meetings.
The Chairman has also provided feedback on be viewed on the Companys website and a schedule of business to performance to the Non-executive Directors.
be transacted during the year.
The responsibilities of each of the Committees together with an overview of their meetings during All performance assessments were completed internally.
It is the the year are described below.
intention of the Board to undertake an external evaluation of its performance in 2013.
The Board and its Committees are provided with appropriate information on a timely basis to enable them to discharge their Election or re-election at the AGM duties.
All Directors receive written reports prior to each meeting At the AGM held in 2012 all of the Directors offered themselves for which enable them to make an informed decision on corporate and election or re-election.
At the same AGM, amendments to the business issues under review.
All Board meetings are minuted and Companys Articles were approved in order to align them with the any unresolved concerns are recorded in such minutes.
recommendations set out in the Code.
Consequently, the Articles now require that, at each AGM of the Company, all Directors must The Board has a schedule of eight meetings each year to discuss retire from office and each Director wishing to serve again must the Groups ordinary course of business.
Every effort is made to submit themselves for election or re-election by shareholders.
arrange these meetings so that all Directors can attend: additional Details of those Directors who are submitting themselves for meetings are arranged as required.
The following table sets out the election or re-election at this years AGM are set out in the Board and Committee attendance record during the year: separate Notice of Meeting.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Roger Perkin was appointed since the last AGM and accordingly is Executive Directors subject to election at the forthcoming AGM.
Roger Perkin brings recent and relevant experience that will be of significant benefit to Terry Smith 8 8 the Company and the Board recommends his election.
Paul Mainwaring 8 8 The Board is satisfied that, following formal performance Non-executive Directors evaluation, the performance of each of the Directors offering Keith Hamill 8 8 1 1 themselves for re-election continues to be effective, and that each David Clark 8 8 5 5 2 2 1 1 demonstrates commitment to the role.
Michael Fallon 5 5 4 4 1 2 1 1 Biographies of all Directors are set out on page 27.
Angela Knight 8 8 5 5 2 2 1 1 Board administration Roger Perkin 4 4 2 2 2 2 The Board has a formal Schedule of Matters reserved to it for Stephen Pull 8 8 5 5 2 2 1 1 decision, which can be viewed on the Companys website Rupert Robson 8 8 5 5 2 2 1 1 www.
The Schedule includes, among other things: E xcludes meetings of committees of the Board appointed to complete routine business or business previously approved by the Board.
approval of the Groups strategy: Resigned 4 September 2012 Appointed 1 July 2012 changes to the Groups capital or corporate structure: 31 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Report continued All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary Work of the Audit Committee during 2012 and there are procedures in place for taking independent professional The Audit Committee reviewed the cost effectiveness, objectivity advice at the Companys expense if required.
and independence of the external auditor.
The Audit Committee considered the professional and regulatory guidance on auditor The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the Board independence and was satisfied with the auditors representations.
keeps up to date with key changes in legislation which affect the The Audit Committee reviewed the level of fees paid to the auditor Company.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary in respect of the various non-audit services provided during 2012 is a matter reserved for the Board.
which are disclosed in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
The auditor confirmed to the Audit Committee that they did not believe that the level of non-audit fees had affected AuDIt CoMMIttee their independence.
The Companys policy is to use the most Composition appropriate advisers for non-audit work, taking account of the need Until July 2012 the Audit Committee was chaired by David Clark.
The Audit Committee reviewed its David Clark has recent and relevant financial experience, and has policy governing the engagement of the external auditor for been a Senior Adviser to the FSA.
In July 2012, Roger Perkin assumed non-audit services during the year to ensure that it continues to the role of chairman of the Audit Committee.
Roger Perkin is a follow best practice.
former partner at Ernst & Young LLP and has recent and relevant financial experience.
The other members of the Committee The Audit Committee reviewed the integrity of the financial throughout the year were Angela Knight, Stephen Pull and Rupert statements included in the half-year and preliminary Robson.
Michael Fallon was a member until his resignation as a announcements of results and the statutory accounts, prior to Director in September 2012.
All members of the Audit Committee their approval by the Board.
When conducting the review, the are independent Non-executive Directors.
Audit Committee considered the continuing appropriateness of the accounting policies, key financial reporting judgements and the The Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Companys external and adequacy and appropriateness of disclosures.
The Audit Committee internal auditors, the Group Treasurer and Head of Risk Control, and also reviewed whether the respective financial statements, taken other senior finance personnel may attend Committee meetings as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable and provided by invitation.
The Committee has a discussion with the external the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups auditor at least once a year without the Executive Directors being performance, business model and strategy, and advised the present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
Terms of reference The Audit Committee reviewed arrangements by which staff may, Throughout 2012 the Audit Committees terms of reference in confidence, raise concerns about improprieties in matters of included: financial reporting or other matters.
In conducting the review, the Audit Committee took into account whether the policies were in recommendation on appointment and terms of engagement line with guidance published by the FSA.
of the external auditor: The Audit Committee reviewed the work and reports of Internal review of independence and objectivity of the external auditor: Audit and monitored progress against the internal audit plan for 2012.
The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the internal approval of the annual audit plan, scope of engagement and audit plan for 2013. review of effectiveness of the audit process: The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the Risk Assessment monitoring the integrity of the financial statements: Framework maintained by the Group Risk Control function.
review of the results of the audit: ReMuneRAtIon CoMMIttee review of the effectiveness of the Companys internal The Remuneration Committee was chaired by Rupert Robson control procedures: throughout 2012.
The other members of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year were David Clark, Angela Knight approval of the annual internal audit plan, review of the and Stephen Pull.
Michael Fallon was a member until his effectiveness of the internal audit function, and consideration resignation as a Director in September 2012 and Roger Perkin of internal audit reports: and became a member in July 2012.
All members of the Remuneration Committee are independent Non-executive Directors.
review of the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about improprieties in financial reporting and The Remuneration Committee is responsible on behalf of the Board other matters.
for developing and maintaining formal and transparent policies on remuneration for the Companys employees, the framework in The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee are available on which that policy is applied, and its cost.
In addition, the the Companys website www.
com or on request Remuneration Committee regularly reviews remuneration policies from the Company Secretary.
to ensure that they continue to be compliant with the relevant corporate governance and regulatory requirements, including the Remuneration Code.
32 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Chairmans Statement & Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Amongst its other duties, the Remuneration Committee is agreeing and implementing procedures for the selection of new responsible, on behalf of the Board, for: Board appointments: and reviewing and approving the general principles of the making recommendations to the Board on all proposed new Companys remuneration policies: appointments, elections and re-elections of Directors at annual general meetings.
considering the relationship between incentives and risk: The Nominations Committee is authorised to obtain all necessary determining the application of the Companys remuneration information from within the Company and to access professional policies to the Executive Directors: advice inside and outside the Company, as it considers necessary.
The Terms of Reference of the Nominations Committee are reviewing the application of the Companys remuneration available on the Companys website www.
com policies to Senior Management, Brokers and Control Functions: or on request from the Company Secretary.
determining the remuneration of Executive Directors and The Company has plans in place for orderly succession for appointments to the Board and to senior management, so as to the Chairman: maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the approving the remuneration of Senior Management after Company and on the Board and to ensure the progressive consultation with the Chief Executive: refreshing of the Board.
The search for Board candidates is conducted with due regard to the benefits of diversity on the approving all share and long term incentive schemes and their Board, including gender.
The Board makes appointments on merit application: and against objective criteria.
reviewing and approving the Report on Directors Remuneration.
Work of the Nominations Committee During 2012, the Nominations Committee recommended to the The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee are Board the appointment of Roger Perkin as an independent available on the Companys website www.
com or Non-executive Director of the Company.
The services of an external on request from the Company Secretary.
search consultant were retained to assist in identifying a candidate with significant and recent relevant financial experience who could The Chairman and the Executive Directors attend the take on the role of chairing the Audit Committee in succession to Remuneration Committee by invitation.
The Chairman and the David Clark.
In recommending the appointment of Roger Perkin to Executive Directors are not permitted to be in attendance when the Board, the Nominations Committee noted Roger Perkins any matter relating to their own remuneration is being discussed.
considerable experience and financial expertise as a result of him having been a partner of Ernst & Young LLP.
During 2012 and subsequently, the Remuneration Committee has been advised by  executive compensation During 2012, the Nominations Committee also noted Keith Hamills consultants.
intention to retire as a Director of the Company and Non-executive Chairman of the Board and considered the likely background, skills Further details of the work done by the Remuneration Committee and qualities that would be required for his successor.
For in 2012, the Companys policies on remuneration, service contracts discussion of this matter, Keith Hamill was not present.
and share options are given in the Report on Directors Remuneration set out on pages 35 to 42.
For the purposes of managing the process to identify a new Non-executive Chairman, the Nominations Committee convened a working group chaired by Angela Knight, the Senior Independent noMInAtIonS CoMMIttee Non-executive Director, and including Michael Fallon until his The Nominations Committee was chaired by Keith Hamill resignation, Roger Perkin and Stephen Pull.
The other members throughout the year were agreed a detailed candidate specification.
The working group David Clark, Angela Knight, Stephen Pull and Rupert Robson.
oversaw the appointment of an external search consultancy, in Michael Fallon was a member until his resignation as a Director in partnership with which they conducted a rigorous search process September 2012 and Roger Perkin became a member of the which included assessing candidates from a range of backgrounds, Committee in July 2012.
All members of the Committee, other than including a number of female candidates.
All short-listed candidates the Chairman, are independent Non-executive Directors.
were met by members of the working group.
The Terms of Reference of the Nominations Committee provide The Nominations Committee met in February 2013, chaired by that the Chairman of the Board is not permitted to chair the Angela Knight and without Keith Hamill or Rupert Robson being Committee if it is dealing with the issue of his replacement.
present, to determine a recommendation for the appointment of a new Non-executive Chairman.
In making its recommendation for The Board has delegated responsibility to the Nominations this appointment, the Committee concluded that Rupert Robson Committee for: best met the pre-agreed criteria.
The Nominations Committee also noted that he would meet the independence criteria on reviewing the balance and skill, knowledge and experience of appointment set out in the Code.
the Board: 33 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Report continued In recommending to the Board the appointments of Roger Perkin There is regular dialogue with institutional investors, fund and Rupert Robson, the Nominations Committee concluded that managers and analysts, including presentations around the time of their other commitments would not prevent them from being able the results announcements and also on request.
The Chairman to devote the necessary time to their respective roles.
maintains ongoing relations with shareholders when necessary or appropriate and is available to those shareholders who have a The external search consultancy retained by the Board in respect of policy of regular contact or who wish to discuss specific matters.
the appointments of both Roger Perkin and Rupert Robson was The Senior Independent Non-executive Director and the other Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann.
The Company does not have any Non-executive Directors are available to meet with shareholders, other connection with Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann.
should such meetings be requested.
Annual General Meeting RISK MAnAgeMent AnD InteRnAL ContRoL The Board uses the AGM to communicate with investors and The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite and welcomes their participation.
Notice of the AGM and related papers ensuring that it has an appropriate and effective risk management are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the framework and for monitoring the ongoing process for identifying, meeting.
The Chairman aims to ensure that all of the Directors, evaluating, managing and reporting the significant risks faced by including Chairmen of the Committees of the Board, are available the Group.
The Groups risk management governance structure, risk at AGMs to answer questions and meet shareholders.
The proxy management framework and risk profile are described in the Risk votes cast on each resolution proposed at general meetings are Management section of the Business Review.
To encourage shareholder participation, those shareholders whose shares are held via the The Board is also responsible for the Groups system of internal CREST system are offered the facility to submit their proxy votes control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed via CREST.
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not ACCountAbILItY AnD AuDIt absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
In discharging its The Directors statement regarding their responsibility for responsibilities in this respect, the Board has appointed the Audit preparing the Annual Report is set out on page 43 and the Committee to carry out the annual review of the effectiveness of independent auditors report regarding their reporting the internal control and risk management systems and to report to responsibility is on page 45. the Board thereon.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, is goIng ConCeRn reviewed regularly by the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Audit Committee conducted a formal review of the The Groups business activities and performance, and the financial effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems for 2012, position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, borrowing considering reports from management, external audit and the facilities and hedging strategy, together with the factors likely to work of the Group risk control and internal audit functions.
affect its future development, performance and position, are explained in the Business Review on pages 05 to 25.
Analysis of the The Group has a comprehensive system for financial reporting Groups key risks and approach to risk management is also set out which is subject to review by both internal and external audit.
in the Business Review on pages 16 to 21.
Details of the Groups Budgets, regular re-forecasts and monthly management accounts interest bearing loans and borrowings, obligations under finance including KPIs, income statements, balance sheets and cash flows leases, derivative financial instruments, long term provisions, other are prepared at all levels of the business and consolidated reports long term payables and financial instruments are set out in Notes are reviewed by the Board.
These reports include comparisons of 23 to 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
performance and position against prior year, budgets and forecasts.
The Group has considerable financial resources both in the regions The Group has investments in a number of joint ventures and and at the corporate centre comfortably to meet the Groups associated companies.
Where the Group is not directly involved in ongoing obligations.
the management of the investment, it can influence, through Board representation, but not control, the internal control systems After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable present in those entities.
The Boards review of the effectiveness of expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate the system of internal controls in those entities is consequently less resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable comprehensive than in its directly owned subsidiary undertakings.
Accordingly, the Annual Report and financial statements continue to be prepared on the going concern basis.
ReLAtIonS WIth ShARehoLDeRS The Board recognises the importance of communication with shareholders.
com, provides information for shareholders and prospective investors on the Groups activities, results, products and recent developments.
