Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement Background The Board considers that reporting against the The UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency principles and recommendations of the AIC Code and Rules the Disclosure Rules require listed companies to by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the disclose how they have applied the principles and Corporate Governance Code will provide better complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate information to shareholders.
Governance Code the Corporate Governance Code, as The Company has complied with the recommendations issued by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC.
of the AIC Code and the best practice provisions of the The provisions of the Corporate Governance Code, Corporate Governance Code throughout the year ended which was issued by the FRC in June 2010, were 31 December 2012 except as set out below: applicable in the year under review.
The Corporate The Corporate Governance Code C. 3.5 includes Governance Code can be viewed at www.
uk provisions relating to the need for an internal audit function.
As explained on page 35, the Company does The related Code of Corporate Governance the AIC not have an internal audit function.
Code, issued by the Association of Investment Companies the AIC, provides specific corporate The Corporate Governance Code B.
7.1 includes governance guidelines to investment companies.
The provisions relating to the annual re-election of all FRC has confirmed that AIC member companies who directors.
As explained on page 29, the Company report against the AIC Code and who follow the AICs considers that this provision is inappropriate to the Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies Company.
the AIC Guide will be meeting their obligations in The Board has noted the recommendations of the new relation to the Corporate Governance Code and the edition of the Corporate Governance Code, which was associated disclosure requirements of the Disclosure published by the FRC in September 2012 and which are Rules.
The AIC Code issued in October 2010 was reflected in the new AIC Code which was published in applicable in the year under review.
The AIC Code can be February 2013.
These new Codes apply to reporting viewed at www.
co. uk periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012.
The Board will report on its compliance with the recommendations Compliance of the new AIC Code in the Companys 2013 Annual The Board has considered the principles and Report.
recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC The Principles of the AIC Code The AIC Code is made up of twenty one principles.
Its Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out three sections cover the Board: Board Meetings and additional principles and recommendations on issues relations with the Investment Manager: and that are of specific relevance to the Company.
Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles The Board 1.
The chairman should be Mr H M Henderson has been Chairman of the Company since the Annual independent.
General Meeting in March 2003: he joined the Board in 1988.
The Board considers that Mr Henderson is, and has been since his appointment, an independent non-executive director.
Independence stems from the ability to make those objective decisions that may be in conflict with the interests of management: this in turn is a function of confidence, integrity and judgement.
Mr Henderson has served on the Board for more than nine years.
Accordingly, he stands for re-election by the shareholders each year and will do so for as long as he continues to serve on the Board.
The Board is firmly of the view, however, that length of service does not of itself impair a directors ability to act independently: rather, a directors longer perspective adds value to the deliberations of a well-balanced investment trust company board.
The other independent non-executive directors, under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director, review and evaluate annually the performance and continuing independence of the Chairman.
Mr Henderson was formerly a partner of Cazenove & Co. the firm which for many years acted as the Companys stockbroker.
However, he did not have responsibility for or involvement with Cazenoves role with the Company, being for many years responsible for aspects of Cazenoves fund management 28 Annual Report 2012 Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles division.
Accordingly, the Board considers that the Chairman has no relationships that might create a conflict of interest between his interests and those of the other shareholders.
Mr A Watson was appointed as the Senior Independent Director in February 2008.
As noted above, he takes the lead in the annual evaluation of the Chairman.
He is also able to act as a sounding board for the Chairman and serve as an intermediary for the other directors, should this prove necessary, and to act as a channel of communication for shareholders in the event that contact through the Chairman has failed to resolve concerns or is inappropriate.
A majority of the board At 31 December 2012 the Board was composed of eight independent nonshould be independent of executive directors and one executive director the Chief Executive Officer.
The Board is therefore independent of the Companys executive management.
All the directors are wholly independent of the Companys various investment managers.
In the opinion of the Board, each of the directors is independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances relating to the Company that are likely to affect their judgement see also section 1 on page 28.
Directors should be submitted New directors stand for election by the shareholders at the annual general for re-election at regular meeting of the Company that follows their appointment.
Nomination for directors stand for re-election at least every three years, as required by the re-election should not be Companys Articles of Association.
Directors who have served for more than assumed but be based on nine years stand for re-election annually.
There are currently two directors disclosed procedures and with service of more than nine years: Mr H M Henderson the Chairman, continued satisfactory and Mr R A Bruce who was appointed as a director in 2002, but will be performance.
retiring from the Board at this years AGM.
The Board has reviewed Provision B.
7.1 of the Corporate Governance Code, which states that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
The Board considers that the annual reelection of all the directors is inappropriate to the Company.
There are two main reasons for this view: a it appears to place excessive emphasis on the short term and insufficient emphasis on the need for an effective board to work together and to refresh its composition over time: and b there is some danger, because many small and nominee shareholders choose not to exercise their voting rights, that if all the directors seek re-election at once a minority of the shareholders could engineer the removal of the whole Board for reasons injurious to the interests of the Companys investors as a whole.
Therefore the Board considers it appropriate to continue to apply Provision B.
7.1 as if the Company were not a constituent of the FTSE 350 Index, a view which a number of prominent institutional investors have shared.
Every year the Board reviews its composition and the composition of its two Committees.
The Boards Remuneration Committee, which serves as its nominations committee, oversees this process.
Further details are given under section 7 below.
The board should have a New directors are appointed for an initial term ending three years from the policy on tenure, which is date of their first annual general meeting after appointment and with the disclosed in the annual report.
expectation that they will serve two three-year terms.
The continuation of directors appointments is contingent on satisfactory performance evaluation and re-election at annual general meetings.
Directors appointments are reviewed formally every three years by the Board as a whole.
None of the non-executive directors has a contract of service and a director may resign by notice in writing to the Board at any time: there are no set notice periods.
The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that the Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by the appointment of new directors with the skills and experience necessary, in particular, to replace those lost by 29 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement continued Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles directors retirements.
Directors must be able to demonstrate their commitment to the Company, including in terms of time.
The Board seeks to encompass past and current experience of various areas that is relevant to the Companys objective and operations, the most important skill-sets being investment management, finance, marketing, financial services, risk management, custody and settlement, and investment banking.
Specialist agents are used to assist with recruitment.
While the roles and contributions of longer serving directors are subject to rigorous review, the Board is strongly of the view that length of service is only one factor and that the shareholders benefit from having directors with a longer perspective of the Companys history and its place in the savings market.
Therefore there is no absolute limit to the period for which a director may serve.
There should be full Details of the directors are set out on page 22.
They demonstrate a broad disclosure of information range of investment, professional and commercial expertise and experience, about the board.
gained overseas as well as in the United Kingdom.
The board should aim to have The Board considers that it has achieved this aim.
Brief biographical details of a balance of skills, experience, each director are set out on page 22. length of service and Board Diversity knowledge of the Company.
As announced in November 2011, the Company welcomes the objectives of the Davies Report to improve the performance of corporate boards by encouraging the appointment of the best people from a range of differing perspectives and backgrounds.
The Company recognises the benefits of diversity on the board, including gender, and takes this into account in its board appointments.
The Company is committed to ensuring that its director search processes actively seek both men and women with the right qualifications so that appointments can be made, on the basis of merit, against objective criteria from a diverse selection of candidates.
To this end the Board will continue to dedicate time to consider diversity during the director search process.
The board should undertake a The Board has established a process to evaluate its performance on an annual formal and rigorous annual basis.
This process is based on open discussion and seeks to assess the evaluation of its own strengths and weaknesses of the Board and its Committees.
The Chairman performance and that of its leads on applying the conclusions of the evaluation.
The Chairman reviews committees and individual with each director his or her individual performance, contribution and directors.
The Senior Independent Director leads the annual evaluation of the Chairman and reviews the conclusions with him.
The Boards Remuneration Committee oversees this process.
In addition, in consideration of Provision B.
6.2 of the Corporate Governance Code, which states that evaluation of the board of FTSE 350 companies should be externally facilitated at least every three years, the Board concluded that, regardless of the size of the company, periodic external evaluation should add value to the process.
Accordingly, in September 2010, the Board appointed Trust Associates Limited to carry out an evaluation programme.
The Board reviewed the report submitted to it and the Chairman led on implementing those changes recommended by the report that the Board considered should be made.
The report did not identify any material weaknesses or concerns.
Trust Associates Limited as a firm has been used to identify possible candidates for recruitment to the Board in the past.
A further external evaluation will be carried out during the coming year.
30 Annual Report 2012 Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles 8.
Director remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 40 details the process for should reflect their duties, determining the directors remuneration and sets out the amounts payable.
responsibilities and the value of their time spent.
The independent directors The Boards Remuneration Committee serves as its nominations committee should take the lead in the and oversees the recruitment process, which includes the use of a firm of appointment of new directors non-executive director recruitment consultants see page 37.
However, all and the process should be the independent non-executive directors are asked to contribute and to disclosed in the annual report.
consider serving on the sub-committee appointed to draw up the shortlist of candidates.
Notwithstanding this, the Chairman would not expect to be involved in the selection of his successor.
Directors should be offered Directors newly appointed to the Board are provided with an introductory relevant training and programme covering the Companys strategy, policies and operations, induction.
including those outsourced to third parties.
Thereafter, directors are given, on a regular and ongoing basis, key information on the Companys investment portfolios, financial position, internal controls and details of the Companys regulatory and statutory obligations and changes thereto.
The directors are encouraged to attend industry and other seminars, conferences and courses, if necessary at the Companys expense, and to participate generally in industry events.
A log of directors training is maintained and reviewed each year by the Audit Committee.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the Companys executive team and of the Company Secretary, through its appointed representative, who are responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The chairman and the board This principle does not apply to the Company, which is a long established should be brought into the investment trust company.
process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
Board meetings and the relationship with the manager 12.
Boards and managers should Typically, the Board meets approximately ten times each year.
The Chief operate in a supportive, Executive Officer who is himself a director, other representatives of the co-operative and open Companys executive team and a representative of the Company Secretary environment.
expect to be present at all meetings.
The Board devotes two full days each year to meetings with the Companys investment managers and each investment manager sends representatives at least once a year.
The Chairman seeks to encourage open debate within the Board and a supportive and cooperative relationship with the executive team and with the Companys investment managers, advisors and support staff.
The primary focus at regular The Chief Executive Officer and his team monitor investment performance board meetings should be a and all associated matters.
He reports to each Board meeting, at which review of investment investment performance, asset allocation, gearing, marketing and investor performance and associated relations are usually key agenda items.
matters such as gearing, asset allocation, marketing investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
31 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement continued Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles 14.
Boards should give sufficient The Board is responsible for determining the strategic direction of the attention to overall strategy.
Company and for promoting its success.
At least one of its meetings is devoted entirely to reviewing overall strategy and progress is monitored throughout the year.
The board should regularly The Boards Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of and the review both the performance contractual arrangements with the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief of, and contractual Executive Officer is responsible to the Board for reviewing the performance arrangements with, the and the contractual arrangements of his staff.
The Boards Remuneration manager or executives of a Committee oversees this process.
The Chief Executive Officer leads on the selection and monitoring of the investment managers and their terms of reference, which are approved by the Board.
The board should agree The Company manages its own operations through the Board as set out on policies with the manager page 33 below.
Each investment manager runs a discrete investment portfolio covering key operational within the terms of the mandate given to them in an investment issues.
Further details are given on page 33.
Shares are held by the Companys custodian.
Boards should monitor the The Chief Executive Officer and his team monitor the share price and the level of the share price discount to net asset value per share on a daily basis and he reports to every discount or premium if any Board meeting.
and, if desirable, take action The Board has a share buy-back programme that seeks to add to the net asset to reduce it.
value per share and achieve a sustainable discount of not more than 10%.
The board should monitor The Chief Executive Officer and his team are responsible for monitoring and and evaluate other service evaluating the performance of the Companys various service providers.
Boards Audit Committee oversees this process.
The board should regularly The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that there is effective monitor the shareholder communication with the Companys shareholders.
He works closely with the profile of the company and Chief Executive Officer and there is regular liaison with the Companys put in place a system for stockbroker.
There is a process in place for analysing and monitoring the canvassing shareholder views shareholder register and a programme for meeting or speaking with the and for communicating the institutional investors and with private client stockbrokers and advisors.
In boards views to shareholders.
addition to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman, or the Senior Independent Director, expects to be available to meet the larger shareholders.
The Company encourages attendance at its Annual General Meeting as a forum for communication with the individual shareholders.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee all expect to be present at the Annual General Meeting and able to answer questions from shareholders as appropriate.
Details of the proxy votes received in respect of each resolution are made available to shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer makes a presentation to the meeting.
The directors may be contacted through the Secretary at the address shown on page 72.
32 Annual Report 2012 Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles 20.
The board should normally While the Chief Executive Officer and his team expect to lead on preparing take responsibility for, and and effecting communications with investors, all major corporate issues are have a direct involvement put to the Board or, if time is of the essence, to a Committee thereof.
in, the content of communications regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The board should ensure that The Board places importance on effective communication with investors and shareholders are provided with approves a marketing programme and budget each year to enable this to be sufficient information for achieved.
Copies of the Annual Report and the Half Year Report are circulated them to understand the risk: to shareholders, to those who hold shares through the subsidiary companys reward balance to which they products and, where possible, to investors through other providers products are exposed by holding the and nominee companies or written notification is sent when they are shares.
In addition, the Company publishes a fact sheet monthly and its net asset value per share daily.
All this information is readily accessible on the Companys website www.
The Company belongs to the Association of Investment Companies which publishes information to increase investors understanding.
Details of how the Company is managed are set out below.
The Board The individual investment managers are each appointed The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the to manage a discrete portfolio in accordance with Company.
Its role is to provide leadership within a guidelines which limit, for example, the stocks in which framework of prudent and effective controls that enable they can invest, the size of each investment and the risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the amount of cash that may be held in their portfolio in Companys strategic aims subject to the Companys normal circumstances.
They are not allowed to invest in Articles of Association and to such approval of the unquoted securities, to borrow against the security of shareholders in general meeting as may be required from the portfolio, to sell stocks short or to use derivatives.
time to time and ensures that the necessary resources are The investment managers take decisions as to the in place to enable the Companys objectives to be met.
purchase and sale of individual investments and are responsible for effecting those decisions on the best The Board has typically met approximately ten times a available terms.
The Company receives monthly year and deals with the most important aspects of the confirmation from each of the investment managers Companys affairs, including the setting of parameters for that they have carried out their duties in accordance and the monitoring of investment strategy, the review of with the terms of their investment mandates.
investment performance and the extent to which In addition to his responsibilities for the overall borrowings may be used.
management of the Company, the Chief Executive The Chief Executive Officer is responsible to the Board Officer manages the Direct Holdings portfolio.
A for the overall management of the Company including maximum of 10% of the Companys gross assets at the investment performance, business development, time of purchase may be invested in this portfolio and shareholder relations, marketing, investment trust industry there are restrictions on the number, size and type of matters, administration and unquoted investments.
The investments that may be made.
duties of the Chief Executive Officer include leading on The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the investment strategy and asset allocation, on the selection directors are provided, in a timely manner, with and monitoring of the investment managers and their management, regulatory and financial information that terms of reference and on the use of derivatives.
The Board is clear, accurate and relevant, whether from the Chief sets limits on matters such as asset allocation, gearing Executive Officer or otherwise.
and investment in derivatives, within which the Chief Executive Officer may operate at his discretion.
Matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board have been defined.
There is an agreed procedure for The Chief Executive Officer reports to each meeting of directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take the Board.
His report includes confirmation that the independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Boards investment limits and restrictions and those Companys expense.
which govern the Companys tax status as an investment trust have been adhered to.
33 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement continued Board Committees Internal Control The Board has established Audit and Remuneration The Board has established an ongoing process for Committees.
The membership of the Audit Committee identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks and the Remuneration Committee is set out on page 22. faced by the Company.
This process accords with the The roles and responsibilities of the Committees are Turnbull guidance, is subject to regular review by the described in the Report of the Audit Committee on page Audit Committee and was fully in place during the year 36 and in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages under review and up to the date of this annual report.
The Board remains responsible for the Companys system of internal control and has conducted its annual review Meetings of the Board and its Committees of the effectiveness of the system, covering all the The number of formal meetings during the year of the controls, including financial, operational and compliance Board and its Committees, and the attendance of the controls and risk management systems.
This review took individual directors at those meetings, is shown in the into account points raised during the year in the regular table that follows.
appraisal of specific areas of risk.
However, such a system Audit Remuneration is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks of Board Committee Committee failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and Number of meetings 10 3 2 can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
H M Henderson 10 3 2 A L C Bell 10 3 2 In accordance with the provision C2 and C3 of the J E B Bevan 9 Corporate Governance Code the Board reviews the R W Boyle 10 3 Companys business risks at least once a year.
These are R A Bruce 10 3 analysed and recorded in a risk map.
The Company M C Claydon 9 1 receives from its main contractors formal reports S E G A Neubert 7 of 8 which detail the steps taken to monitor the areas of R J Oldfield 9 2 risk and which report the details of any known A Watson 9 2 internal control failures.
Not a member of the Committee but in attendance by invitation for all As described elsewhere, the management of Witans or part of the meetings.
portfolio is outsourced to a number of third party All the directors attended the Annual General Meeting investment managers around the world.
There are in May 2012 and the Boards Away Day in May 2012. currently 12 such investment managers as well as the Direct Holdings portfolio which is managed by the Chief Directors Remuneration Executive Officer.
The directors remuneration is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 40.
The Chief Executive Officer has responsibility for a number of aspects of the management of the portfolio, Accountability and Audit including asset allocation, gearing and investment in The directors statement of responsibilities in respect of derivatives.
The Board has set guidelines in respect of the accounts is set out on page 41. each of these aspects within which he may operate.
The Chief Executive Officer reports to the Board regularly on The report of the independent auditor is set out on each of these areas, as well as on the overall performance page 42. of the Company and other matters of significance.
The Board has delegated contractually to external agents, Witans in-house executive management team is including the various investment managers, the responsible for managing and controlling the management of the investment portfolio, global custody relationships with the third party managers.
The which includes the safeguarding of the assets, the management team receives monthly reports on investment administration, management and financial investment and compliance matters from each manager.
accounting, company secretarial and certain other During 2012, the investment managers were asked to administrative requirements and the registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and provide detailed information on their operational proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost structures and systems.
The information provided is of the services offered, including the control systems in being used to implement a rolling programme of visits to operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the the managers by the management team.
The Board receives and considers regular receives each year from its investment managers reports reports from the investment managers and ad hoc reports on their internal controls: in most cases these include a and information are supplied to the Board from its other report from the relevant companys auditors on the contractors as required.
control policies and procedures in operation.
34 Annual Report 2012 The Chief Executive Officer makes regular reports to the has adequate financial resources to continue in Board on the performance of and activity within the operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In addition, the portfolios Therefore, the directors believe that it is appropriate to performance is independently measured by WM continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Performance Services, along with those of the third the financial statements.
In reviewing the position as at party managers.
the date of this report, the Board has considered the guidance on this matter issued by the Financial Reporting The Companys subsidiary, Witan Investment Services Council.
Limited, is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority to provide investment products and Stewardship and the Exercise of Voting Powers services.
The compliance structures required for these It is the Boards view that, in order to achieve long-term activities, including a compliance manual and a compliance success, companies need to maintain high standards of monitoring programme, have been duly put into place.
corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
Therefore Witan expects the companies in which it is The Company has a formal policy for staff to raise in invested to comply with best practice in corporate confidence any concerns about possible improprieties, governance matters, or to provide adequate explanation whether in matters of financial reporting or otherwise, for of any areas in which they fail to comply, whilst appropriate independent investigation.
Its staff comprises recognising that a different approach may be justified in only six people including the Chief Executive Officer, special circumstances.
In respect of UK companies, who are well known to and have frequent formal and current best practice in corporate governance matters is informal contact with the members of the Board.
set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Company does not have an internal audit function.
The Board encourages the Companys appointed It delegates to third parties the management of its investment managers to engage with companies and to investments and most of its other operations and employs vote proxies, in the best long-term interest of Witan only a small staff.
The investment managers and certain shareholders but in accordance with their own other key contractors are subject to external regulation investment philosophies.
Where applicable, it monitors and most have compliance and internal audit functions the policies of the investment managers in respect of the of their own.
The Companys investments are held on its UK Stewardship Code.
Elsewhere in the world it can be behalf by a global custodian.
A specialist firm of more difficult to vote shares as each country has its own investment accountants and administrators is responsible rules and practices regarding shareholder notification, for investment administration, for maintaining voting restrictions, registration conditions and share accounting records and for preparing financial accounts, blocking, including, for example, dealing constraints.
management accounts and other management Therefore, while the Companys investment managers information.
Their work is reviewed by an independent are apprised of the Companys approach to the accountant who also carries out some of the work that an stewardship of its assets and the importance of sound internal audit function would cover.
In addition, the corporate governance, they use their discretion according Board receives from the investment administrator an to their knowledge of the relevant circumstances.
The annual report on its internal controls, including a report investment managers report their compliance with the from its auditor on the control policies and procedures in UK Stewardship Code, or equivalent legislation, to the operation.
The investment performance of the Audit Committee each year.
investment managers, both individually and collectively, is measured for Witan by a company that is independent In respect of the direct investments held, the Companys of all the investment managers.
The corporate company executive management maintains regular touch with the secretary is a firm with well-established experience in management of the investee holdings and engages when servicing investment trusts.
issues arise that are controversial or potentially prejudicial to the interests of Witans shareholders.
An The appointment of these and other professional annual report is provided to the Audit Committee on contractors provides a clear separation of duties and a compliance with the UK Stewardship Code.
structure of internal controls that is balanced and robust.
The Board will continue to monitor its system of internal control in order to provide assurance that it operates as intended and the directors will review at least annually whether a function equivalent to an internal audit is needed.
By order of the Board Going Concern Frostrow Capital LLP, The assets of the Company consist mainly of securities Secretary that are readily realisable and, accordingly, the Company 12 March 2013 35
