Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Report of the Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the directors values attributed to the unlisted investments.
It ensures in applying financial reporting and internal control that the Company maintains appropriate compliance principles and to maintain an appropriate relationship with the requirements of regulators: and it reviews the with the Groups auditor.
The Committee reports to the Board, identifying matters on which it The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in considers that action is needed and making its terms of reference, which comply with the UK recommendations on the steps to be taken.
The terms of reference are available on request from the Company Secretary and The Committee comprises three non-executive directors, can be seen on the Companys website.
including its Chairman, who are appointed by the Board.
Mr Boyle was appointed Chairman of the Committee in The Committee is responsible for monitoring the 2007.
He is a Chartered Accountant and was previously a integrity of the Companys financial statements, partner in  LLP.
The other two including consideration of the Companys accounting members are Mr Bruce and Mr Watson, who were policies and significant reporting judgements.
It reviews appointed in 2002 and 2006 respectively: details of their the Companys internal financial controls and risk qualifications and experience are given on page 22. management systems using an external consultant where appropriate.
The Committee held three meetings during the year, at two of which representatives of the auditor were present: The audit was subject to competitive tender in 2007 to consider the outcome of the audit of the Groups 2011 when Deloitte LLP was reappointed.
The Committee financial statements and to consider the plan for the reviews the scope and effectiveness of the audit process audit of the Groups 2012 financial statements.
and monitors the auditors independence and objectivity.
It conducts a formal review of the During the year the Committee addressed all the matters performance of the external auditor and makes set out as its responsibilities under its terms of reference recommendations in relation to this appointment, and confirmed that the Group should not establish an including their remuneration and the provision by them internal audit function.
In addition, the Committee of any non-audit services.
The Committee has reviewed the Alternative Investment Fund Managers established a procedure to ensure that the engagement Directive: the new editions of the UK Corporate of the auditor to provide non-audit services cannot Governance Code, the Guidance on Audit Committees exceed a specified proportion of the annual audit fees and the UK Stewardship Code published by the FRC: the without due consideration being given by the new tax rules for investment trusts: the Bribery Act and Committee to the proposed appointment.
As noted in the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act.
In each case, note 5 on page 51, the Committee approved the the Committee considered the implications for the appointment of Deloitte LLP to provide advice on oneCompany and determined whether appropriate off withholding tax claims for a fee of 65,000.
The procedures should be put in place or other action taken.
appointment, which was made on a one-off basis, was awarded on a competitive basis and the Committee was assured that Deloittes audit team and tax advisory team were independent of each other.
On this basis, the Committee did not consider that this appointment affected Deloittes independence in its role as auditor to the Company.
The Committee also reviews the process for negotiating Robert Boyle and monitoring major contracts undertaken by the Chairman of the Audit Committee Company, the Boards investment restrictions and the 12 March 2013 36
