Corporate Governance Statement agreed that for so long as the roles remained combined, LETTER FROM certain corporate governance functions undertaken by THE CHAIRMAN me in my capacity as Chairman will be delegated to the Corporate governance Senior Independent Director.
These functions include is both a framework by chairing the board meetings, ensuring that the Board which the interests of receives timely information and ensuring the efficient various stakeholders organization and conduct of the Boards functioning.
It are balanced and should also be noted that both the Code and the best a structure through practice recommendations favour that the Chairman be which the objectives of an independent Director whereas until 3 March 2010 the a company are set.
It Company retained my services as Managing Director CEO also includes how the and accordingly I am not an independent non-executive path to achieving those objectives is outlined and how Chairman within the meaning of the Code.
The reasons performance is measured along the way.
As a company why the Board believed that my appointment to the with a premium listing on the Main Market of the London position of Chairman was appropriate were set out in last Stock Exchange, the Company is subject to the Financial years Annual Report and Accounts, and in compliance Services Authoritys Listing Rules and the requirement with the Code, major shareholders were consulted to explain how it has applied the Main Principles of the before my appointment was confirmed.
In addition, the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance effectiveness of the groups risk management and internal Code the Code.
A copy of the Code is available from control systems and the policy on how concerns could be the FRCs website, www.
The Listing Rules raised by staff were not formally reviewed in the period also require a company with such a listing to confirm ended 31 December 2012.
A formal review of these that it has complied with all relevant provisions of the UK matters is scheduled for the second quarter of 2013, Corporate Governance Code or explain areas of which review will cover all material controls, including non-compliance.
financial, operational and compliance controls.
The Board is also committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the best practice Succession planning recommendations of the Toronto Stock Exchange A key part of my role as Chairman is to ensure the and the best practice recommendations prescribed right people are doing the right jobs and that there is a under National Policy 58-201 Corporate Governance sufficient core of individuals being nurtured throughout Guidelines NP 58-201, for which the board is the Company to enable effective succession planning.
The Board remains committed to succession planning The Board considers that throughout the year, the and the untimely passing of Harry Michael in 2011 Company has complied with the relevant provisions reinforced its importance to us.
Reviews of management of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code and has capabilities and potential are performed on a routine applied such best practice recommendations with the basis and I am satisfied that sufficient resource within exception that, for the period under review, the roles of the Group exists and continues to be developed.
Where Chairman and Chief Executive were both exercised by a need for improvement to management resources is me.
This was due initially to the sudden and unexpected identied, the necessary attention is provided to ensure death of Mr Harry Michael, our Chief Executive officer, full strength is attained as soon as practicable, which in November 2011.
Since then, taking account of the was demonstrated by Andrew Pardeys appointment current political circumstances of Egypt and the need as Chief Operating officer and Andrew Davidsons accordingly for continuity in the leadership of the company appointment as Head of Business Development and at this important juncture the Board has concluded the Investor Relations.
interests of both the Company and shareholders are best served by my continuing in those roles until such time as a suitable successor can be identied.
The Board has also 61 Corporate Governance Statement Board appointments Shareholder communication The Board was further strengthened during 2012 I would like to encourage all shareholders to nd the time by the appointment of Kevin Tomlinson.
In this respect, to attend our AGM on 23 May 2012, which this year will the Company accordingly remains compliant with the be held in Jersey.
This will be an excellent opportunity principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code to meet the Board, the Executive Board and members to the extent that it dictates the Board should have of our Senior Management team.
An opportunity will a greater number of non-executive directors than also be afforded to those shareholders who are unable executive directors.
to attend the AGM to receive a presentation from senior management in London on 16 May 2013.
Board committees Our committees are a valuable part of Centamins corporate governance structure.
The workload of the committees is far greater than the table of scheduled meetings would indicate, as ad hoc meetings and Josef El-Raghy communications between meetings frequently require Chairman considerable amounts of time.
I believe strongly that the blend of behaviours and skills around the Centamin Board table are well suited to the task and consistent with the Companys values, and I am keen for a formal system to reconrm this.
With a Board that is free to openly express concerns comes more considered outcomes emphasising collective responsibility, transparency, clarity and sustainable conduct.
62 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 Corporate Governance Statement THE BOARD COMPOSITION AND BALANCE The Board currently comprises the Chairman and CEO, five non-executive and one other executive director.
One of the non-executive directors has been appointed Senior Independent Director.
All the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent and biographies of all the directors appear on pages 54 and 55, together with descriptions of their expertise, experience and qualications and a note of their other significant commitments.
Membership of the Boards Committees is set out in this section.
The Board is satisfied that this range of expertise, experience and qualications is appropriate for the current needs of the business.
The names of the Directors of the Company in ofce at the date of this Report are: Name Position Committees Chairman and CEO - Josef El-Raghy Executive Director - Trevor Schultz Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Audit and Risk Committee G. Edward Haslam Nomination and Remuneration Committees Chairman Compliance Corporate Governance Committee Independent Non-Executive Director Audit and Risk Committee Chairman Mark Arnesen Nomination and Remuneration Committees HSES Committee Independent Non-Executive Director Compliance Corporate Governance Mark Bankes Committee Chairman Audit and Risk Committee HSES Committee Independent Non-Executive Director Nomination and Remuneration Committees Kevin Tomlinson HSES Committee Independent Non-Executive Director HSES Committee Chairman Professor G Robert Bowker Nomination and Remuneration Committees Compliance Corporate Governance Committee Non-Executive directors have the right to seek independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties as directors, at the Groups expense.
Written approval must be obtained from the Chief Executive officer prior to incurring an expense on behalf of the Group.
When determining whether a Director is independent, the Board has established a Directors Test of Independence Policy, which is based predominantly on the denition of independence as dened in Canadian Securities Administrators National Instrument 52-110 Audit Committees NI 52-110, and is available on the Companys website or to shareholders upon request.
The criteria in NI 52-110 are mandatory and are more stringent in certain respects than the independence criteria suggested by the Code.
Based on this Policy, the majority of the Board are considered by the Board to be independent Non-Executive directors.
The Company has considered certain recommendations put forward in the UK in respect of gender diversity on the boards of listed companies but has not adopted a formal policy in this regard.
The matter is however kept under constant review.
63 Corporate Governance Statement In addition to its general oversight responsibilities, HOW THE BOARD OPERATES significant transactions out of the ordinary course of the The Board of Directors supervises the management of Companys business or which may be material to the the business and affairs of the Company.
The Board Company are considered and approved by the Board of of Directors assumes responsibility for the stewardship Directors.
The Board of Directors generally has at least of the Group, and the functions the Company has 4 regularly scheduled meetings in each year.
Additional established that are reserved to the Board include: meetings may be held depending upon opportunities or s Strategic Planning: The Board of Directors regularly issues to be dealt with by the Company from time to time.
reviews and approves strategic plans and initiatives A full copy of the Companys Board Charter is available of the Company at Board of Directors meetings, and on the Companys website or upon request.
The following table sets out the number of Directors s Risk Assessment: The Board of Directors has meetings including meetings of the Board held during primary responsibility to identify principal risks the year and the number of meetings attended by in the Companys business and ensures the each Director while they were a Director or committee implementation of appropriate systems to manage member.
During the year ended 31 December 2012, these risks.
20 Board meetings of which 4 were scheduled and s Succession Planning: The Board of Directors is 16 were convened at short notice to deal with emerging responsible for succession planning, including the developments in Egypt, 2 Nomination Committee appointment, training and monitoring of senior meetings, 3 Remuneration Committee meetings, management.
6 Compliance Corporate Governance Committee s Communications: The Board of Directors oversees the meetings, 3 HSES Committee meetings and 6 Audit Companys public communications with shareholders Committee meetings were held.
and others interested in the Company.
s Internal Control: The Board of Directors and the audit committee of the Board of Directors oversee the Groups internal control and management information systems.
Compliance Corporate Board Remuneration Nomination Governance Audit HSES Name of Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Director 20 20 -- -- ------ Mr J El-Raghy 20 18 33 22 6666 - - Mr G. Edward Haslam 20 17 -- -- ------ Mr T Schultz 20 18 33 22 - - 6633 Mr M Arnesen 20 20 - - - - 666633 Mr M Bankes 20 19 33 22 66 - - 33 Prof Robert Bowker 20 19 33 22 - - - - 33 Mr K Tomlinson In addition, Josef El-Raghy, whilst not a member of the Board Committees referred above, is by invitation typically in attendance at committee meetings save for those where his remuneration is being discussed.
Meetings of Independent Directors Mr G. Edward Haslam was appointed Senior Independent Director of Centamin Egypt Limited on 22 March 2011 and has retained this position with the Company.
He has regular meetings with the other Non-Executive Directors and, in connection with the evaluation of the Boards performance referred to below, undertook a performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the other executive director and the Company Secretary.
64 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 Allocation of responsibilities literacy contained in section 1.5 of the Canadian National Instrument 52-110.
For the purposes of that The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive officer instrument, an individual is nancially literate if he or are strictly separated as dened in the Groups Board she has the ability to read and understand a set of Charter and their individual employment contracts.
Financial Statements that present a breadth and level However, as discussed elsewhere in this section, of complexity of accounting issues that are generally following the sudden passing away of Harry Michael in comparable to the breadth and complexity of the issues November 2011, the Groups former CEO, Josef Elthat can reasonably be expected to be raised by the Raghy has undertaken the role of CEO.
Both these conditions this combining of roles, and with a view to ensuring were satisfied during the relevant period.
that there is not undue concentration of authority in the hands of one individual, the Board has agreed that for so During the year the Committee particularly focused long as the roles remained combined, certain corporate on the following areas: governance functions undertaken by Josef El-Raghy in s consideration and approval of the audit plan: his capacity as Chairman will be delegated to the Senior s consideration and approval of the scope of external Independent Director.
These functions include chairing audit and related processes: the board meetings, ensuring that the Board receives s consideration and review of the full-year and timely information and ensuring the efficient organization interim results: and conduct of the Boards functioning.
s consideration of announcements to the London Stock Exchange by the Group on its performance: and BOARD COMMITTEES s accounting implications for the Group of the ongoing As indicated by the table above, the Board has litigation, described elsewhere in this report.
established Audit and Risk, Compliance Corporate External auditor Governance, Nomination, Remuneration and the Health Safety Environmental and Sustainability HSES The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, committees.
Copies of the current Board and Committee implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on Charters and Policies are available on the Groups external audit.
The policy assigns oversight responsibility website www.
for monitoring the independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements Audit and Risk Committee to the Audit Committee, and day to day responsibility As at the date of this report, the Audit Committee to the Chief Financial officer.
It states that the external comprises Mr Mark Arnesen Chairman, Mr Mark auditor is jointly responsible to the board and the Audit Bankes and Mr G. Edward Haslam, all of whom are Committee and that the Audit Committee is the primary considered by the Board to be independent within the contact.
The policy also sets out the categories of terms of Groups Directors Test of Independence Policy.
non-audit services which the external auditor will and will not be allowed to provide to the Group, including The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are laid those that are pre-approved by the Audit Committee and out in its charter, and amongst other things, include those which require specic approval before they are the responsibility to ensure that an effective internal contracted for, subject to fide minimis levels.
control framework exists within the entity, and to review quarterly, half yearly and annual Financial Statements To full its responsibility regarding the independence of for submission to the Board for approval.
The Committee the external auditor, the Audit Committee reviewed: receives regular reports from management.
This includes s the external auditors plan for the current year, noting the safeguarding of assets, the maintenance of proper the role of the senior statutory audit partner, who accounting records, the need for an internal audit signs the audit report and who, in accordance with function and the reliability of financial information as well professional rules, has not held ofce for more than as non-financial considerations.
The Audit Committee five years, and any changes in the key audit staff: will also recommend the appointment, and will review the s the arrangements for day-to-day management of the fees, of external auditors.
audit relationship: The Code states that the Board should satisfy itself s a report identifying the number of former external that at least one member of the Audit Committee has audit staff now employed by the Group and their recent and relevant financial experience.
Furthermore, positions within the Group: all members of the Audit Committee are expected to be nancially literate as per the denition of financial 65 Corporate Governance Statement s a report from the external auditor describing their It is the Groups policy to put the Groups audit out to arrangements to identify, report and manage any tender at least every five 5 years.
conicts of interest: and Following the above, the Audit Committee has s the overall extent of non-audit services provided by recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP is the external auditor, in addition to its case-by-case re-appointed.
approval of the provision of non-audit services by the Internal Audit external auditor.
In light of the size and relative complexity of the Group, A policy has been approved by the Audit Committee no internal audit function has to date been established, but in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the it is the intention of the Group, following a recommendation auditors.
Essentially the policy states that the auditor of the Audit Committee, to do so as the Stage 4 project may not provide certain dened services that are draws nearer to completion.
considered to be inconsistent with the role of the auditor.
For other services, an authorisation procedure A copy of the Audit Committee Charter is available on is in place.
Any significant work must be authorised the Companys website or to shareholders upon request.
by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Overview During 2012 the auditor provided both limited As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee tax advisory and other services in relation to the has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its establishment of a Deferred Bonus Share Plan and terms of reference and has ensured the independence related matters.
In the prior financial period, other and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Chairman of non-audit services included the provision of advice and the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual undertaking due diligence investigations in relation to the General Meeting to answer any questions about the main board listing on the London Stock Exchange.
To the extent necessary, the auditor obtained Compliance Corporate Governance Committee pre-approval from the Audit Committee before performing these services and have used separate The Compliance Corporate Governance Committee is teams for the tax advisory services and other related chaired by Mr Mark Bankes and its other members are services, than the team performing the audit.
There were Mr G. Edward Haslam and Professor Robert Bowker.
no contingent fee arrangements in place during 2012, The Committee assists the Board in fullling its duciary 2011 and 2010. responsibilities by making recommendations to the To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the Board with respect to the formulation or re-formulation Audit Committee reviewed: of and implementation, maintenance and monitoring of the Companys Corporate Compliance Program and s the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors Code of Conduct as may be modied, supplemented independence and objectivity: or replaced from time to time, designed to ensure s the external auditors fullment of the agreed audit compliance with corporate governance policies and legal plan and any variations from the plan: and rules and regulations.
Fundamental to the Companys s the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor corporate governance policy and practice is that all in their handling of the key accounting and Directors and employees reect the Companys key audit judgements.
values of accountability, fairness, integrity and openness.
The auditors of the Group, Deloitte LLP Deloitte, The Committee oversees the Companys activities have open access to the Board of Directors at all times.
in the area of corporate compliance that may impact the Deloitte have audited the Group and its subsidiaries Companys business operations or public image, in light for a number of years and have adopted a policy of of applicable government and industry standards, legal rotating audit partners every five years.
The last rotation and business trends and public policy issues.
of the audit partner occurred as a consequence of the re-domicile on the 30 December 2011 and took effect on 29 December 2011.
66 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 Health Safety Environmental and Sustainability Nomination Committee Committee The Nomination Committee comprises Mr G. Edward Haslam Chairman, Mr Mark Arnesen, The Health Safety Environmental and Sustainability Professor Robert Bowker and Mr Kevin Tomlinson, Committee comprises Professor Robert Bowker all of whom are independent Directors of the Company.
Chairman, Mr Mark Arnesen, Mr Mark Bankes and Mr Kevin Tomlinson, all of whom are independent The Nomination Committees primary functions are to: Directors of the Company.
The key functions of the s Make recommendations for the structure, size and Committee are to: composition of the Board and Board committees: s Review and monitor the sustainability, environmental, s Review the necessary and desirable competencies, safety and health policies, systems and activities skills, knowledge and experience of Directors: of the Group in order to ensure compliance with s Review the Board succession plans: and applicable health, safety, and environment and s Make recommendations for the appointment, community legal and regulatory requirements.
re-election and removal of Directors to from the Board.
s Encourage, assist, support and counsel management The Nomination Committee establishes guidelines for in developing short and long-term policies and the future nomination and selection of potential new standards to ensure that the principles set out in Directors.
The full Board subject to members voting the sustainability, environmental, health and safety rights in general meeting is ultimately responsible for policies are being adhered to and achieved.
selection of new Directors and will have regard to a s Regularly review community, environmental, candidates experience and competence in areas such health and safety response compliance issues and as mining, exploration, geology, finance, administration incidents to determine on behalf of the Board, that and other areas of relevance that can assist the Group in the Group is taking all necessary action in respect meeting its corporate objectives and plans.
of those matters and that the Company has been duly diligent in carrying out its responsibilities and Remuneration Committee activities in that regard.
The Remuneration Committee comprises s Ensure that principal areas of community, Mr G. Edward Haslam Chairman, Mr Mark Arnesen, environmental, health and safety risk and impacts Professor Robert Bowker and Mr Kevin Tomlinson.
are identied and that sufficient resources are The Remuneration Committees primary functions are to allocated to address these.
make recommendations to the Board on: s Ensure that the Company monitors trends and reviews current and emerging issues in the eld s The Companys remuneration, recruitment, retention, of sustainability, environment, health and safety and termination, superannuation and incentive policies evaluates their impact on the Group.
and procedures for Directors and senior executives.
s Review and make recommendations to the Board with s The 2011 Employee Option Loan Funded Share Plan, respect to environmental aspects of acquisitions and the 2011 Executive Loan Funded Share Plan and the dispositions with material environmental implications.
2011 Share Option Scheme or any other employee or s Provide oversight and guidance with respect to executive incentive scheme.
managing relationships with local governments and community relations.
Orientation and Continuing Education During the year the Committee worked closely with The Companys formal orientation or education management to: programme for new Directors begins with new Board s Review steps to address the lost time due to injury members being offered an orientation package which LTI frequency rate as compared to 2011. includes reports on operations and results, and public s Develop principles and strategies for the pursuit of disclosure lings by the Company.
Board meetings corporate sustainable development CSD initiatives.
are combined with presentations by the Companys management and employees to give the Directors s Establish procedures for the HSES Committee, additional insight into the Groups business.
In addition, and where appropriate, the full Board to consider management of the Group makes itself available for proposals for such programs.
discussion with all members of the Board of Directors.
s Receive updates and associated KPIs for programmes New Board members are also encouraged to broaden their and reports on ad hoc assistance to local social and skills and knowledge by undertaking continuing education.
67 Corporate Governance Statement Managing risks Monitoring of the Boards performance The Board meets regularly to evaluate, control, review In order to ensure that the Board continues to discharge its and implement the Groups operations and objectives.
responsibilities in an appropriate manner, the performance of all Directors is constantly reviewed by the Chairman.
Regular controls established by the Board include: The Company deployed a formal process for evaluation of s timely and detailed monthly financial and operational the Board, the Board members, and Board committees reporting: during the relevant period.
A formal Board evaluation s implementation of operating plans, cash ows and questionnaire was delivered to each member of the Board budgets by management and Board monitoring of for completion.
The questionnaire covered questions on progress against projections: and the structure of the Board, the selection of management, s procedures to allow Directors, and management in strategy determination, etc, as well questions on each the furtherance of their duties, to seek independent Directors personal contribution to the board and the professional advice via the utilisation of various Companys Committees.
The Company has engaged a third party facilitator to Attention is also drawn to the text appearing in the undertake an external Board Evaluation during the section above headed Principal Risks Affecting the second quarter of the 2013.
Centamin Group relating to the monitoring of risks, Under the Companys current Articles of Association: which is incorporated into this section by reference.
s the minimum number of Directors is two and there is The Board is responsible for reviewing and approving no maximum: the Groups risk management strategy, policy and key s a Director may not retain ofce for more than one risk parameters, including determining the Groups year without submitting for re-election: and appetite for country risk and major investment decisions.
s any Director appointed by the Board must have their Management reports to the Board on the Groups key election confirmed by shareholders at the next AGM.
risks and the extent to which it believes these risks are being managed.
The Board Where a Non-Executive Director has served six years or is also responsible for satisfying itself that management longer on the Board, his or her re-election will be subject has developed and implemented a sound system of to particularly rigorous review and will take into account risk management and internal control.
The Board has the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
delegated oversight of the Risk Management Policy, The Company has established a Remuneration Policy including review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal which sets out the structure of the remuneration of key control framework and risk management process, to the senior executives, Executive Directors, Non-Executive Audit Committee, which is reviewed at least annually.
Directors, termination, disclosure of remuneration etc.
Management is responsible for designing, implementing, The Board has also established a Selection, Appointment reviewing and providing assurance as to the effectiveness and Re-Appointment of Directors Policy which details the of the Policy.
This responsibility includes developing procedures for the selection, appointment, re-appointment business and functional risk identication, specic risk and evaluation of the Companys Directors.
The Committee treatment, controls, monitoring and reporting capability.
considers both policies before making recommendations The Board regularly discusses risks associated with the to the Board on nomination and remuneration matters.
Groups business and operations along with the Groups Both Policies, along with the Charters of the Nomination risk tolerance.
The Group has developed a series of and Remuneration Committees are available on the operational risks which the Group believes to be inherent Companys website or to shareholders upon request.
These operational risks are summarized in All compensation arrangements for Directors and senior the Management, Discussion and Analysis section of this executives are determined or in the case of senior annual report.
Mitigation and optimization strategies are executives, reviewed by the Remuneration Committee considered equally important in risk management.
and approved by the Board, after taking into account the The Risk Management Policy is available on the current competitive arrangements prevailing in the market.
Companys website or upon request.
68 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 The amount of remuneration for all Directors including The Chief Executive officer is responsible for ensuring the full remuneration packages, comprising all senior executives properly discharge the responsibilities monetary and non-monetary components of the delegated to them and for keeping the Board informed Executive Directors and executives, are detailed in the on these matters.
Non-Executive Directors receive The performance of senior executives is evaluated by annual fees within an aggregate Directors fee pool the Remuneration Committee, often taking into account limited to an amount which is approved by shareholders.
recommendations from the Chief Executive officer and The Board Nomination and Remuneration Committee or Chairman.
The Board can exercise its discretion in reviews and recommends, for Board approval, relation to approving incentives, bonuses and options remuneration levels and policies for Directors within this and can recommend changes to the Committees overall Directors fee pool.
The fees which are paid are recommendations.
All executives receive base salary also periodically reviewed.
The current annual fee for and superannuation if applicable and in some cases, Non-Executive Directors is a base fee of US$79,235 p. a. performance incentives and fringe benets.
50,000 p. a.. Due to the additional time required, the These packages are reviewed on an annual basis.
Chairmen of the Boards various Committees receive an All remuneration paid to executives is valued at the cost additional fee currently US$15,847 p. a.
10,000 p. a. to the Company and is measured in accordance with the for Chairing that Committee, and the members of each applicable accounting standards.
committee also receive an additional fee currently The performance of our senior executives was evaluated US$7,923 p. a.
5,000 p. a. for being a Committee in the current year by the Remuneration Committee.
For the period to 28 February 2013, The Committee reviewed recommendations received Senior Independent Director received an additional from the Chairman, considered the performance of the US$15,847 p. a.
10,000 p. a.. From 1 March 2013 senior executive, his her current contract, and whether the fees payable to the Senior Independent Director were a bonus and or the grant of employee options were restructured such that he receives an amount equal warranted.
In the previous financial year, the Board to US$198,088 p. a.
125,000 p. a. in aggregate for believed it to be appropriate to base performance on this position, being a member of the Board Committees how well the executive performs his her role, and not and for chairing the Remuneration and Nominations necessarily base it on the Company meeting financial Committees.
For the avoidance of doubt, all amounts objectives.
The Company has now established a referred to in this paragraph include any statutory structured short term incentive scheme, details of which superannuation payments where applicable.
It is can be found in the Remuneration Report contained proposed to review the fees payable to Non-Executive within this Annual Report.
Historically, the Directors, executives and employees have As a matter of practice, and in line with the Groups in the past been invited to participate in the shareholder approach to financial and risk management, the senior approved Centamin Egypts 2006 Employee Option Plan, executives are responsible for: and separate shareholder approval was sought before any s developing corporate strategy, performance Director could be issued options under the plan.
However, objectives, business plans, budgets etc for review and Centamin Egypt ceased issuing options under the 2006 approval by the Board: Employee Option Plan in August 2009 and received s managing the day to day business of the Company: approval from shareholders in February 2011 to establish s managing the risk and compliance frameworks the Executive Director Loan Funded Share Plan 2011 and including reporting to the Board and, where the Employee Loan Funded Share Plan 2011.
These two necessary, the market: plans were rolled over into equivalent plans in Centamin s appointing staff, evaluating their performance and PLC as part of the re-domicile that took place in December training requirements as well as development of 2011, referred to elsewhere in this report.
In addition, Company policies: and a new employee option plan was created the 2011 Employee Option Plan.
s ensuring all available information in connection with items to be discussed at a meeting of the Board is Options have been issued under these new plans to provided to each Director prior to the meeting.
senior employees as set out on page 134.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to hold shares in the Company to align their interests more closely to 69 Corporate Governance Statement those of the Companys shareholders.
However, share Code and the Canadian Securities Administrators ownership is not enforced by the Company.
National Instrument 51-102: s Corporate opportunities or opportunities arising from The Board expects that the remuneration structure that these for personal gain or to compete with the Group: is implemented will result in the Company being able s Protection of and proper use of the Groups assets: and to attract and retain the best executives to manage the Group.
It will also provide the Executives with the s Active promotion of ethical behaviour.
necessary incentives to grow long-term shareholder The Company has a formal Code of Conduct, which all value.
Please refer to the Remuneration Report which Directors, employees and contractors are required to forms part of the Directors Report for information observe, and a range of corporate policies which detail on remuneration paid to Directors and executives the framework for acceptable corporate behaviour.
These set out the procedures that personnel are required There are no schemes for retirement benets other than to follow in a range of areas, including compliance with statutory superannuation for Non-Executive Directors.
the law, dealing with conicts of interest, use of knowledge and information, gifts and entertainment, responsibility Securities Trading Policy to shareholders and the financial community etc.
The Company has adopted a formal Securities Trading The Companys policies are reviewed periodically.
Policy restricting Directors, senior executives and A copy of the Code of Conduct is available on the employees from acting on material information until it Companys website or to shareholders upon request.
has been released to the market in accordance with the requirements of continuous disclosure.
Directors and Communication to shareholders senior management of premium listed companies on The Board of Directors aims to ensure that shareholders the LSE are restricted in a number of ways, by statute, are provided with important information in a timely common law and by the Model Code to deal in the manner through written and electronic communications.
This rule imposes restrictions It is for this reason that the Company established beyond those imposed by law in that the Directors and a Shareholder Communications Policy.
certain employees and persons connected with them do The Board of Directors aims to ensure that the not abuse and do not place themselves under suspicion shareholders, on behalf of whom they act, are informed of abusing price-sensitive information that they have or of all information necessary to assess the performance are thought to have, especially in periods leading up to of the Company.
Information is communicated to the announcement of results close periods.
The Companys shareholders through: Securities Trading Policy is available on the Companys website or to shareholders upon request.
s the Annual Report: s the Annual Information Form: Commitment to stakeholders and ethical s the availability of the Companys Quarterly Report, standards Half-Yearly Report and other announcements The Board supports the highest standards of corporate distributed to shareholders so requesting: governance and requires its members and the s adherence to continuous disclosure requirements: management and staff of the Company to act with s webcasts of the Companys quarterly results: integrity and objectivity in relation to: s the Annual General Meeting and other meetings s Compliance with laws and regulations affecting the called to obtain shareholder approval for Board action Groups operations: as appropriate: and s Listing rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code, s the provision of the Companys website containing and NP 58-201: all of the above mentioned reports and its constant s Employment practices: update and maintenance.
s Responsibilities to the community: s Responsibilities to the individual: s The environment: s Conict of interests: s Condentiality: s Ensuring that shareholders and the financial community are at all times fully informed in accordance with the spirit and letter of the Model 70 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 The Chairman and CEO and other Directors, Statement by the Chief Executive officer and communicate with major shareholders on a regular Chief Financial officer basis in the way of face to face contact, telephone The Board receives written assurance from the Chief conversations, and analyst and broker briengs, Executive officer and Chief Financial officer to confirm to help better understand the views of the shareholders.
that to the best of their knowledge and belief, the Groups Any material feedback is then discussed at Board level.
financial position presents a true and fair view and that The Board recognises the importance of keeping the Financial Statements are founded on a sound system the market fully informed of the Groups activities and of risk management, internal compliance and control.
of communicating openly and clearly with all Further, it is confirmed that the Groups risk management stakeholders.
The Company established a formal and internal compliance is operating efficiently and Continuous Disclosure Policy to ensure that this occurs.
The Board notes that due to its nature, internal The Policy is designed to ensure compliance with the control assurance from the Chief Executive officer and listing rules in all jurisdictions in which the Company is Chief Financial officer can only be reasonable rather than listed.
A copy of this Policy is available on the Companys absolute, and therefore is not and cannot be designed to website or by request.
detect all weaknesses in control procedures.
In accordance with the Policy, Company information Market purchase of shares considered to be material and which requires The Company was authorised by shareholders, at the announcement is announced immediately to the LSE 2012 AGM, to purchase in the market up to 55,069,869: and TSX.
All key communications are placed immediately ordinary shares in the share capital, as permitted under on the Company website, and when necessary, provided the Companys Articles.
No shares have been bought directly to shareholders.
As a premium listed company back under this authority.
This standard authority is on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, renewable annually and the directors will seek to have it the Company also complies with the various obligations renewed at the forthcoming AGM.
imposed on it pursuant to the Disclosure Rules and the Transparency Rules DTRs.
