52 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Corporate Governance Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AN ORGANISATION IS DEPENDENT UPON ITS MANAGEMENT AND STRUCTURE FOR THE EXECUTION OF STRATEGY AND ITS CULTURE FOR THE WAY IN WHICH ITS RESULTS ARE ACHIEVED.
Sir Roger Carr Chairman This year, the Company is reporting in accordance with the UK The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles Corporate Governance Code the Code introduced in June 2010 of Association Articles, which are available on the Companys which sets out standards of good practice in relation to board website.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution.
leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability In addition, the Directors have responsibilities and duties under and relations with shareholders.
A copy of the Code is available from legislation, in particular the Companies Act 2006. the UK Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The Company complied The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its fully with the provisions set out in the Code throughout the year.
approval which it reviewed against best practice in December 2012 The Chairmans Statement on pages 5 to 8 discusses the and concluded that no changes were necessary.
A summary is Companys corporate culture and practice as well as Board shown below and the full schedule is available on the Companys composition, diversity, succession planning and evaluation.
of the Companys business model and strategies for delivering The Board is responsible for: objectives are set out in the Business Review on pages 9 to 50. development of strategy and major policies: The Companys Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 52 to 60. the Group's corporate governance and system of internal control: During the last few years, there have been a number of reviews reviewing performance: and consultations on governance matters.
Centrica takes an approving interim dividend payments and recommending final active interest in such developments and will continue to do so.
dividend payments: In September 2012, the FRC published a revised Code which the Company fully supports.
While the Company will be reporting approval of the annual operating plan, financial statements in accordance with the revised guidance in its 2013 Annual Report, and major acquisitions and disposals: the Board have taken into account the revised provisions when the Group's corporate responsibility arrangements including preparing this Report.
health, safety and environmental matters: and The Board the appointment and removal of Directors and the Company Board of Directors Secretary.
The Board believes that good corporate governance contributes to Centricas performance.
A clearly defined framework of roles, The Board recognises that its Non-Executive Directors have other responsibilities and delegated authorities is in place and this interests outside of Centrica and so, each year, the Chairman supports the Boards aim to deliver sustainable growth for the and each Non-Executive Director provide assurance to the Board benefit of shareholders, employees and customers.
The findings that they remain fully committed to their respective roles.
The Board of the recent Board evaluation continue to demonstrate that the considers these assurances and is satisfied that each can dedicate Directors consider that the Board leads and controls the Group the necessary amount of time to attend to the Companys affairs.
effectively, has a robust governance structure and that no individual or small group of individuals dominate the Boards decision-making.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53 Governance Corporate Governance Report Board meetings Board constitution and appointments The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout the year The Board comprises a good balance of Executive Directors and in 2012 there were eight scheduled meetings of the Board.
and independent Non-Executive Directors which promotes thorough consideration of the important issues facing Centrica The Board continuously assesses and reviews key priorities and and the Groups performance.
The roles of Chairman and Chief business issues for the Group over the short, medium and longer Executive are separate, formalised in writing and have been term.
Comprehensive papers are presented to the Board which approved by the Board.
They are available on the Companys facilitate meaningful debate on the performance and future website, together with an explanation of the roles of the Nondirection of the Company.
All Directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant As discussed in the Chairmans Statement, the Non-Executive Committee meetings.
Details of attendance by Directors at Board Directors play a key governance role and bring an external view meetings during 2012 are set out in the table below and their to the Boards deliberations through their knowledge, experience attendance at Committee meetings, where appropriate, is included and insight from other sectors.
As part of its annual review of on pages 55 to 57.
Where a Director was not in attendance, this was corporate governance, the Board considered the independence due to other prior work commitments.
Directors who were unable of each Non-Executive Director, other than the Chairman, against to attend specific Board or Committee meetings reviewed the criteria in the Code and determined that each Non-Executive the relevant papers and provided their comments to the Chairman Director remained independent.
During the year the Nonof the Board or Committee, as appropriate.
In addition, any Director Executive Directors, including the Chairman, met independently who misses a meeting will, as a matter of course, receive of management.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director met the minutes of that meeting for future reference.
with the independent Non-Executive Directors in the absence of Number of Meetings the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans performance.
meetings attended A formal, rigorous and transparent process is followed during Sir Roger Carr Chairman 8 8 Sam Laidlaw 8 8 the selection and subsequent appointment of new Directors Phil Bentley 8 8 to the Board.
However, there have been no changes to the Margherita Della Valle 8 7 composition of the Board during 2012.
Board composition planning, Mary Francis 8 8 however, is discussed in the Chairmans Statement on page 7.
Mark Hanafin 8 8 The Companies Act 2006 and the Articles require the Board Lesley Knox 8 7 to consider any potential conflicts of interest.
The Board considers Nick Luff 8 8 and, if appropriate, authorises each Directors reported actual and Andrew Mackenzie 8 7 potential conflicts of interest regularly.
The conflicts of interest register Ian Meakins 8 7 is reviewed at least annually by the Board.
Each Director abstains Paul Rayner 8 8 from approving their own reported conflicts.
Chris Weston 8 8 The Board has agreed that each Director shall stand for re-appointment at each Annual General Meeting AGM.
As part of its responsibilities, the Board approves and monitors the development of the Group's strategy.
In addition to the discussions Details of the Directors of the Company are set out in the Chairmans at the scheduled Board meetings, in 2012 the Board held two Statement on pages 6 and 7 with their biographies on pages additional meetings devoted specifically to strategy.
Details of Directors service contracts or letters of the Board conference reviewed the progress against our strategic appointment, in the case of Non-Executive Directors, emoluments priorities and debated the challenges within our current markets.
and share interests are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages The Board discussed options for the new strategic direction for the 61 to 75.
Group and started to develop the priorities introduced on page 11.
Directors indemnities and insurance Key strategic considerations included: In accordance with the Articles, the Company has granted a deed the competitive landscape and market conditions: of indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to Directors and the General Counsel & Company Secretary.
Qualifying third party a further interim assessment of our investment in new nuclear: indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies an assessment of growth options across the Group and investment Act 2006 were in force during the year ended 31 December 2012 opportunities in exploration and production, midstream including and remain in force.
The Company also maintains directors UK gas storage, power generation and downstream: and and officers liability insurance for its Directors and Officers.
a review of different capital allocation options, including an assessment of long-term financial performance and capacity under various scenarios of the business and the optimal use of capital, including whether any capital should in future be returned ONLINE to shareholders.
Use your smartphone or tablet to scan this QR for instant access to the Directors biographies 54 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Corporate Governance Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board performance progress within the Goups FSA regulated businesses British Gas Board evaluation Insurance and UK Midstream : The Board considers the annual review of the Board, its Committees company law, corporate governance, reporting and remuneration and Directors as an essential part of good corporate governance, reporting developments: and with the use of an external facilitator at least once every three years.
health, safety and environmental governance and strategy.
Over the last ten years, the Company has employed Egon Zehnder on two occasions, JCA Group and in 2011, Independent Board The Directors have full access to the advice and services of the Evaluations IBE.
On each occasion, the Board has received positive General Counsel & Company Secretary, who is responsible for reports and has adopted recommendations to improve Board, advising the Board through the Chairman on corporate governance Committee and individual Director performance.
They are also able to seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense in respect of their duties.
A full discussion on the implementation of IBEs findings during 2012 and the internal evaluation conducted in December 2012 can be Board committees found in the Chairmans Statement on page 8.
The Board operates six Committees to oversee the standards of the Group: Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, Corporate Board development Responsibility, Executive and Disclosure.
The Committees All new Directors appointed to the Board receive a comprehensive are supported in the same way as the Board in order to ensure induction programme tailored to meet their individual needs.
information flows in a timely, accurate and complete manner.
The Chairman and General Counsel & Company Secretary are responsible for delivering an effective induction programme All of the independent Non-Executive Directors are members for newly appointed Directors, specially tailored to meet the of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, individuals requirements.
This will comprise briefings from members with the exception of Andrew Mackenzie who is not a member of the Executive team on key areas of the business including of the Audit Committee.
The Board reviews annually each the internal audit function, an overview of the Groups risk Committees terms of reference and membership against best management processes, the key risks facing the business practice as well as taking into account any relevant changes and a briefing in respect of the corporate governance framework in circumstances.
In December 2012, the Board approved minor within Centrica.
revisions to the terms of reference for the Audit Committee.
All other terms of reference remain unchanged.
The full written Ongoing development and training is also provided to all Directors terms of reference for the Committees can be found on the at Board and Committee meetings.
During the year, Directors Companys website.
received regular updates and presentations on changes and developments to the business and to the legislative and regulatory Minutes of Committee meetings are made available to all Directors environments in which the Group operates.
In particular, the Board and the Chairmen of each Committee provide regular updates was briefed on the following key issues during 2012: to the Board.
the impact of changes in Government policy on the green agenda A chart setting out the Companys Board and Executive Committees and social costs: structure is below.
The responsibilities of each Board Committee, its membership and the key issues considered by each one during progress with and the impact of the Retail Market Review RMR 2012 are set out in the following Committee reports.
and Electricity Market Reform EMR : Centricas improved approach to managing major capital projects: demonstrations of the latest developments in British Gas smart technology: Board governance structure BO BOA AR RD D O OF F D DIIR RE EC CT TO OR RS S Audit Nominations Remuneration Corporate Executive Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Group Risk Investment Management Sub-Committee Committee Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55 Governance Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee The Audit Committees key function is to review The Committee members participated in two training sessions the effectiveness of the Companys financial reporting during the year: one in July 2012 facilitated by members and internal controls together with the procedures of Centrica Energys management team focusing on the for the identification, assessment and reporting of risks.
management of Centrica Energys midstream and trading risks and one in November 2012 in respect of the Direct Energy residential business.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to: monitor the integrity and audit of the Financial Statements: The Committee considers annually the scope, fee, performance and independence of the external auditors as well as whether review the internal financial controls, internal control and risk a formal tender process is required.
In accordance with the management systems: transition provisions of the revised Code, the Group will perform monitor and review the effectiveness of Internal Audit: an external audit tender process before 2017.
During the year, at the Committees request,  PwC establish and oversee appropriate whistleblowing and fraud performed a detailed review of their audit and submitted a formal prevention arrangements: and proposal for re-appointment.
To assess the effectiveness of the establish and oversee the relationship with the external external auditors, the Committee considered feedback on the auditors, including any non-audit services.
audit process gathered through a survey.
This included questions on the fulfilment of the external audit plan and any variations, the Key issues reviewed by the Audit Committee external auditors qualifications and resources, the robustness of During 2012, the Committee considered: the auditors in handling key accounting and audit judgements and the 2011 preliminary results, 2011 Annual Report the insightfulness of recommendations included in the external and 2012 half year results: auditors internal control report.
the critical accounting judgements see note 3 of the Financial The Board considers it of prime importance that the external Statements on pages 83 to 85, including the impairment auditors remain independent and objective and as a safeguard reviews of power stations, upstream oil and gas assets, against this being compromised, the Committee implemented planned gas storage facilities, onerous contracts, nuclear and monitors a policy on the independence of external auditors, new build investment and goodwill: a copy of which is available on the Companys website.
The policy details the appointment of external auditors, the setting Directors judgements on exceptional items see note 7 of the of audit fees and the rotation of audit partner and staff.
The policy Financial Statements on page 92 : also restricts the types of non-audit work that can be undertaken progress on aligning assurance activities to improve the quality by the external auditors.
The award of non-audit work, and delivery of internal controls and assurance: within permitted categories, is subject to pre-clearance by the Committee if the fee exceeds specified thresholds.
the Internal Audit strategy and scope of activities: The Committee is provided with reports of all non-audit the independence, objectivity and fees of the external auditors assignments awarded to the external auditors and a full and scope of audit and non-audit services: breakdown of non-audit fees incurred.
A summary of fees the new UK Corporate Governance Code: and paid to the external auditors is set out in note 32 to the Financial Statements on pages 120 and 121. adherence across the Group to key regulatory and compliance regulations, including compliance with the undertakings in In accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & respect of Centrica Storage Limited.
Ireland 260 and Ethical Statement 1 issued by the Accounting Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external Membership and attendance during the year: auditors have confirmed their independence as auditors of the Number of Meetings Company, in a letter addressed to the Directors.
meetings attended Paul Rayner Chairman 4 4 PwC has been the external auditor of the Group since Margherita Della Valle 4 4 the demerger of Centrica in 1997.
The Committee makes Mary Francis 4 4 recommendations through the Board to the shareholders Lesley Knox 4 4 to consider at the AGM, or at any time during the year, Ian Meakins 4 3 on the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditors.
There are no contractual obligations restricting The Board has determined that each member of the Committee the Groups choice of external auditors.
Following the above is independent.
In accordance with the Code, Paul Rayner and review and having given full consideration to the performance Margherita Della Valle are identified as having recent and relevant and independence of the external auditors, the Committee has financial experience.
As noted in the Chairmans Statement on recommended to the Board that a resolution to re-appoint PwC page 8, it is intended that Margherita Della Valle will assume be proposed at the 2013 AGM and the Board has accepted chairmanship of the Audit Committee in July 2013. and endorsed this recommendation.
56 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Corporate Governance Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee The Nominations Committee ensures there is a formal and The principal role of the Committee is to determine and appropriate procedure for the appointment of new make recommendations to the Board on the Companys Directors to the Board.
The Committee is responsible for framework and policy for the remuneration of the leading this process and making recommendations to the Chairman of the Board, the Companys Executive Board.
Directors and other senior executives.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to: The Committee is authorised by the Board to: make appointment recommendations to the Board for the determine total individual remuneration packages, authorise appointment, re-appointment or replacement of Directors: any contract of employment letter of appointment and other terms and conditions for the Board and senior executives: devise and consider succession planning arrangements for Directors and other senior executives: and approve the design of, and determine targets for, any performance related pay schemes for the Executive regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Committee and approve the total annual payments: and Board and to recommend any proposed changes to the Board.
review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders.
Key issues reviewed by the Nominations Committee During 2012, the Committee considered: Key issues reviewed by the Remuneration Committee During 2012, the Committee considered: succession planning for the Executive Directors: total remuneration, including a review of base pay for 2012: a review of Non-Executive Directors whose length of service was more than six years: annual earnings of Executive Directors: the relevant skills and criteria which would be required in an amendment to the Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme respect of the search for a new Non-Executive Director with CUPS for the Executive Directors: strong upstream experience in North America: and potential amendments to the performance targets of the Long each of the Directors prior to the 2012 AGM and Term Incentive Scheme LTIS and Deferred and Matching recommended that each of them be subject for re-election at Share Scheme DMSS : and the 2012 AGM.
the impact of changing legislation on the operation of the Membership and attendance during the year: existing share schemes and developments in government and Number of Meetings best practice proposals on executive remuneration.
meetings attended The Committee regularly considers a number of items which, Sir Roger Carr Chairman 3 3 for 2012, included the performance and objectives under Sam Laidlaw 3 2 the Annual Incentive Scheme, the vesting and allocation awards Margherita Della Valle 3 3 for the LTIS and DMSS and the annual valuation of CUPS.
Mary Francis 3 3 Lesley Knox 3 2 Membership and attendance during the year: Andrew Mackenzie 3 1 Number of Meetings Ian Meakins 3 2 meetings attended Paul Rayner 3 3 Lesley Knox Chairman 5 5 Sir Roger Carr 5 5 Margherita Della Valle 5 5 In addition to the above meetings, the Committee met with the Mary Francis 5 5 Chief Executive and the Group Director, Human Resources to Andrew Mackenzie 5 5 undertake an annual succession review for senior management.
Ian Meakins 5 3 Paul Rayner 5 5 The Board has determined that each member of the Committee is independent.
No Director is involved in the determination of, or votes on, any matters relating to his or her own remuneration.
THESE ISSUES ARE DISCUSSED IN MORE THESE ISSUES ARE DISCUSSED IN MORE DETAIL WITHIN THE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DETAIL WITHIN THE REMUNERATION REPORT ON PAGES 5 TO 8 ON PAGES 61 TO 75 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57 Governance Corporate Governance Report Corporate Responsibility Committee Executive Committee The role of the Corporate Responsibility Committee The Executive Committee is responsible for the day to day is to ensure that Centrica effectively manages its impact management of the Groups operations within the limits on society, the environment and the wider economy.
set out in the Groups delegation of authority.
The Committee also has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its approval, including Health, Safety and The Committee is authorised by the Board to: Environmental policies and standards.
endorse the Groups Corporate Responsibility CR strategy, policies, processes and standards, assist periodic reviews of them and oversee the effectiveness of managements Key issues reviewed by the Executive Committee implementation: The Committee regularly considers financial and operational performance against an operating plan, health and safety monitor performance against agreed KPIs and targets: performance, human resourcing issues including employee review the framework for managing CR across the Group engagement, senior management changes and succession and its effectiveness: and planning and proposed acquisitions and divestments.
In particular, major proposed transactions are considered review the effectiveness of Centricas communications about by the Executive Committee prior to consideration by the Board CR strategy and performance externally and internally.
together with progress made on major operational projects.
Key issues reviewed by the Corporate Responsibility Membership and attendance during the year: Committee Number of Meetings During 2012, the Committee focused on: meetings attended Sam Laidlaw Chairman 11 11 reviewing key CR performance indicators, in particular on Phil Bentley 11 11 environmental, health and safety and customer engagement Grant Dawson 11 9 metrics as well as key CR strategic priorities: Mark Hanafin 11 10 specific CR issues in relation to each business unit, including Nick Luff 11 11 CR aspects of topical and emerging energy issues such as Jill Shedden 11 11 bio-energy and shale gas: Chris Weston 11 11 development of key business activities, including progress on further improving the management of responsible procurement within the business: Disclosure Committee reviewing the assurance provided by Deloitte LLP in respect of the CR report: and The Disclosure Committee is responsible for the feedback received directly from members of the British Gas implementation and monitoring of systems and controls in Customer Board on initiatives to improve engagement with respect of the management and disclosure of inside British Gas customers.
information and for ensuring that regulatory Membership and attendance during the year: announcements, shareholder circulars, prospectuses and Number of Meetings other documents issued by the Company comply with meetings attended applicable legal or regulatory requirements.
Mary Francis Chairman 3 3 Sam Laidlaw 3 3 Key issues reviewed by the Disclosure Committee Phil Bentley 3 3 During 2012, the Committee considered the release of the 2011 Grant Dawson 3 3 preliminary announcement, the interim management statements Margherita Della Valle 3 3 in May and November 2012, the 2012 half year results Andrew Mackenzie 3 3 and the release of announcements in respect of specific Chris Weston 3 3 projects.
The Committee also undertook a full review of the Groups control of inside information and compliance The Executive Committee has overall responsibility with the Model Code.
for implementing CR strategy across the Group.
Membership and attendance during the year: Number of Meetings meetings attended Sam Laidlaw Chairman 7 7 Grant Dawson 7 7 THESE ISSUES ARE DISCUSSED IN MORE Nick Luff 7 7 DETAIL WITHIN THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW ON PAGES 39 TO 43 P o l i c i e s a n d P r o c e y d t u i P r r e t r C e o f n o o g s e h r n n m i t t m t i n a d r u n s n u o a s c A l A l P e e l 58 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Corporate Governance Report CO ORPORATE GOVERN finance E REPO ORT CO ONTINU UED Relation Rela ations wi s with shar th s sharehold eholde ers r rs Th The B e B Bo oa arrd d r re ec co ogn gnise ise es s an and valu d values th es t the im e importance portance of of m ma aiin nta tainin ining g an e an efffffect ective ive i in nve vestor r stor re elat latiions ons a and co nd c comm mmuni unicat catio ion n pr program ogramme.
Th The Bo e B Boar ard d i is pr s pro oactiv actiive in obtai e in obtainin ning g an an un understandin derstand ding g of sh of shar areh eholder older vi view ews o s s on n a num a numbe ber r of k o of ke ey ma y matters af tters a affe fect ctin ing g th the e G Grr rou oup a p an nd r d re eceive ceiv ves s forma forma all iin nve vestor fe stor feedb edb ba ac ck k r re egula gularl rly y.. Du Durrin ing g 2012, 2012, Cen Centtrri ica h c ca ho osted pr sted pres esen entat tati io on ns s f for or tth h he ann e anno ou un ncemen ceme entt of t of th he Gr e e Gro ou up p s 2 s 2011 pr 011 prelimin eliminary ary r re esults an s sults and 2012 d 2012 in inter teri im r m re esults.
A Attten tend fide ed d by by b bo otth h E Ex x xe ecu cutti iv five e an and N d No o on n-EEx xecu ecuti tive five D D Diir rec ectors, tors, BOARD th the pr e pr resen esentat tati io ons w ns wer e ere e m made to ade to in inst s sti itu tutti ional onal in investors an vesttors and ana d analy lyst s sts s, AND incl includ ud diin ng r g re epr pres esent enta a ativ tive es o s off many many of o of the Gr the Grou oup p s larg s la argest est COMMITTEES shar share e eh hold olde ers rs.
T. Th he pr e prese esen nt ta at tio ion n m mater a ateria ials ls ar are e av avai ailab la abl le e on on th the Com e e Comp pany's webs any's w website.
Th The C e C Ch hi ief ef Executi Executiv five e an and d Gr Group Fi oup Finan n nanc ce e D Dir ire ec ctor a tor a allso so h he elld d rre egu gula la ar r meet meetiin ing gs s wit with h the the C Comp ompan any ys s m maj ajor o or s sh har are eh ho olld fide errs s s d du urri ing ng the y the ye ear a ar.. Th The e C C Ch hairman an airman and the Sen d the Seniior or I In nde depen p pend den ent t Di Dirre ector atten cto or attend ded ed the the m m meet eetiin ngs at whic gs at whic ch h tth he a e an nnua nual l and i a and in nter teri im m rre es su u ult lts s w we erre e p prre es se en n nted ted to major to ma ajor in investor vestors an s an nd analyst d analysts s.. Th Th he C e Ch ha airman irman of of the Remunerat the Remunerattion ion C Co om mm m miittee al ttee also so m me et t t wi with a numbe th a number of the r of the C Co ompa mpa an ny y s s ma majjo or r sh shar areh e eho olld fide ers rs dur during ing the ye the year ar t to o dis discus c cuss o s ou urr r rem emu uner n nerat atio ion n a arran rrang g gem emen ents an ts and will d w will fu furthe rther enga r enga age ge in in adv adva anc nce e of an of any y f fu utu turre e obje object ctiv iives, es, p pe er rfo forrma manc n nce t e ta argets rgets an and po d d polilic cies ies d fide esi sig gned ned to to a ac chiev hieve e cha chan nges g ges.. T Th he Ch e Cha ai irm rm ma an n con conttinues to inues to m meet eet m ma ajo jor i r in nst stit itutio utiona final l a b a ba al la anc n nced ed a an nd d t trans rans sp par are en nt t a ass sse ess ssme m men ntt of the ri of the ris sks k ks facing facing sh shar areh e eho olders r lders re eg gu ular lar rlly in y in or order to der to gain ga ain a a first-han first-hand d un under derstan stand din ing g g th the Gr e Gro o ou up ps s opera operattio ion n ns s an and t d to o me mea as s su urre th e the e e effffe ec cttiv iv ven ene ess ss of t of th he e eiir r co conc ncer erns a ns an nd d d k ke ey y iss issue ues s a an n nd d p prrovid ovides es r re egul g gular ar updat update es s of t of th he e k ke ey y c contr ontro ols ls in in pl plac ace to e to m ma anage na ag ge t th hem em.
The wor w work o k off t th he Bo e Boar a ard d to the to the e Boar Board d..
I In n add addiitio tion n, t th he e Bo Boar ard r d d re ece ceive ives s ann annua u ually lly a an In n Investor vestorr is is u un nd fide e erp rpi in nned by ned by c cl le e ea ar r d fide elleg ega atti ion ons s o of f a au utth ho ority rity, ef effffe ec cttiv ive e polic policie ies s P Per ercep ce ept tiio on n S Su urrv vey ey w w wh hi ic ch h covers covers s st trrat ateg egy y, manag managem e eme en nt t, i in nv vest estm m me en ntt and pr and pr ro oced cedur ure es s cov cover e ering ing key key ar are eas as o off Gr Group oup op oper eratio a ation tog n together ether wit w with h appr approa o oach, ch, va valuat luation, ion, b bu usi siness ness perf perform o orma anc nce an e and ba d b bal la ance nce sh shee eet t a s a se et o t o off busines business s pr prin inci cipl ples es a an nd d p prrocess oc cesse es s wh whic ich h ar a are e co comm mmuni unc icated a ated ma manag na age eme ment nt.. to to Ce Cen n nttri rica ca s s st sta af fff..
I In n a a ad ddi diti tion, on, m me ec ch h han anis ism ms s a arr e i e in n pl p pac lace e to en to ensu surre e tth ha at t b bo o otth h s sttrra atte eg gic ic a an n nd d o op pe erat ratiional onal r rris isk ks s a arr e e i id fide en nttif ifie ied d a an nd d a ass sse es ss se e ed d The The Compa C Compan ny ys s AG AGM pr M M provides a ovides all s ll s sh har areho eholders w lders with the opportunit itth the opportun nity y a and t nd th ha at t t th he e c co on ntr tro ols ls d fide es si ig gne ned d t to m o m ma anage nage s su uc ch h r ri isk sks ar s are e o oper pera at tin in ng g to develop to dev velop further further the the eir ir und understanding of erstandin ng of the the Com Company p pany.. S Sh har are eh hold old fide ers rs ef efffect ective iv vely ly.. Thes These e me mec c ch han anis ism ms s ar are r e re e ein infor forc ced ed thr thro ough r ugh re eg gu ular lar can ask questio can a ask question ns of th s off the fu e full Boar ll Board on d on the matter the matters s pu put to t t to th he meetin e mee eting, g, perfo perfor rma m manc nce e ma manag nagem e eme ent nt a an nd d bu bus s siin iness ess r rev eviews iews.. in inc clu lud d din ing th g the Ann e Annu ua al l Report an Report and d th the r e e ru unn nnin ing of the C g of the e Co ompan mpany y gen gene erally r rally.
The Compan e Comp pany inte y inten nd ds s to to sen send d to sh to shar areh eh holders th olders the N e Notice otiice Last Lastly ly, , it it is is im impor porttant ant t tth hat at th the ef e effe fective ctiv vene ness ss of the of the fram fra ame ework work of AGM an of AG GM and d an any y r re el lated papers at a ated papers at l least e east 20 working days befor 20 working g days before e is ass is asse e ess sse ed im d imp pa arti rtia alllly y..
The Therre e is, is, ther therre ef for ore e, a a pr pro ogr gramm a amme e the m the m meeti eetn ing.
g. All All D Dir irectors ar ec ctors are e in invi vite ted to attend each d d to attend each h AGM.
At th he e of of i in nde fide epen pend den ent t r re evi views by ew ws by th the i e in nte terrn n final al au audi dt f it func unction tio on wh whic ich h AGM, the AGM, the Chair Chairm man a an an nd t d th he e Ch Chief Ex ief E Exe ec cu utive pr tive pre es sent e ent a a rre eview view is is des desig ign ned ed t to o c co ov five er r th tthe e k ke ey pr y pro oc ce es ss s se es s an and d r ris isk kss.. of the Gr of the e Group oup s s b bu usiness sine ess.
A poll is is con co ond du uct cted on each r ed on ea ach re esolu solution tion As wit As with h h a an ny y su suc ch h system systtem, the the pr process oce es sse es s ar are e d fide es signed ign ned to to ma manag nage e e at al at all l Compa C Compan ny y gen genera e eral m l meeti eetin ng gs s. All.
A All s sh har areho eholde lders also rs also have have rather rather tha than n el elim imin inat ate t e tth he ri e risk sk of of ffail ailur urre to e to ach achie ieve five the the ob obje jective ctives s th the opportun e op pportunity t ity to o cast t ca ast th heir eir votes in votes in n r re espect of spect of pr proposed r o oposed re esolu soluti tio o on ns s and and ca ca an pr n provid ovide only e only rreaso eason nabl able e, a an n nd d not not ab absol solut ute, e e, as assur sura anc nce e by pr by proxy o oxy, , either e either ellectr ect tro oni nical cally ly or by or by post.
Followi llowing ng the the AGM, AGM, a agai gain ns s stt m ma ate terria ial l m mis iss sttta atte em me en ntt or l or lo os s sss.. the voting the vo oting r results esults for e for ea ac ch h r resol esolu uti tio on ar n n are e pub publis lished hed and and ar are e avai availab lab ble le on on the the e Co Compan mpany ys websit s w website.
e. D fide eta tailis ls s of t of th he e G Grro ou up ps p s s prin rinci cip pa all risk risks s an an d d uncert uncerta a in in ttt ie ies s a arr e se e sett ou out t in pages 44 to in page es 44 to 5 50 0 of of the tthe Bu Business Review siness R Review.. Mary Fr Mary Franc anciis, s, the Senior Indepe the Se enior Independ nde e en nt t D Dir irector ector, , is is avai a availa labl ble e to shar to sha are eh holders olders i if f they have co the ey have conc ncer erns n ns that that conta contac ctt thr thro ough the ugh the n nor o orm mal al 2012 developments 2012 d developments s cha chan nnels n nels has has e eit ith her er fai ffailed led to r to resol esolv five or is e e or is dee deemed med inap iinappr propr opriat iate.
e. Ce Cent ntrrica ic ca s s r ri isk sk m man ana ag g ge em me en ntt p prro oce cesse ss ses c s co ont nt in inu ue e tt o o o ev evolv olve e a an nd d d du u urring ing 2012 2012 the followin t the following impr g im mprovemen ovement ts s w wer we er e e im implemen plemented: te ed: C Ce en nt trr ric ica a s s w we eb bs sit ite c e c co on ntta ain ins s u up p tto o d d da at te i e in nffor orm mat atio ion n n fo forr s sh ha arre eh ho olld der e ers s a and nd o o otth he err i in ntte erre es stte ed d p part artie ies s i inc nclu lud diin n ng g annu annua al r l re ep po orrtts s, s sh ha arre eh ho olld fide e err organisational changes including aligning a number of our risk, orga anisational chan nges including a aligning a numb ber of our risk, cir circ culars ula ars, s sh har are e pric price i e e in nform format ation, news ion, n news r re el le ea as ses es, pr p prese esen nt tat atiio on ns s controls and audit functions to facilitate a more integrated cont trols and audit ffunctions to fac cilitate a more in ntegrated to the investment community and to the e investment com mmunity and info in nformation on s rmation on sh h har areholder services.
approach to our risk and assurance activities.
This will continue approach to our ris sk and assuranc ce activities.
Th his will continue e to evolve during 2013: to ev volve during 20 013: Risk Risk k manag manage ement me ent an and d inte interrn final contr al control oll the development and roll out of a risk universe, allowing for a more the d development and roll out of a risk universe, a allowing for a m more The The Bo B Boar ard d i is s r re es sp pons on nsi ib bl le e f for or th the e Gr Gr roup oup s s syst system em of o of int inte errn final al co contr ntrro ol l structured approach to risk identification which will eventually struc ctured approac ch to risk identiffication which w will eventually and and r risk iisk m ma anagement and co nagement and cons nsi iders this to fide ers this to be fun be fun nd damen amental tal be used to drive a greater risk based approach to our audit be u used to drive a greater risk bas sed approach tto our audit tto th o the e e ac ach hiev ieve em me ent nt o o off th the e Gr Gro oup ups s s s sttr ra ateg tegic ic o ob bje jec ctttiive ves s.. T Th he e f fo olllo low w win ing g planning activities: plan nning activities: diagr diagra a am sh m shows ows s some of the key om me of the key elemen ele ements ts in in tth he e gover g governan nanc ce, e, the focus on High Impact Low Probability HILP risk identification, rrisk a isk an nd c d co on nttrro ol fra l fram m mework by ework by wh which ic ch C Ce en nttrrica ica s s ope op perra attio ion ns s the ffocus on High Impact Low Pro obability HILP risk identificatio on, with all business units updating and expanding upon their HILP with all business un nits updating an nd expanding u upon their HILP P ar are co e co ond nduct ucte ed.
d. The The work work of t of th he e Boar Bo oard a d an nd d its its Committ Committees ees registers for the Groups consideration: regis sters for the Gro oups considera ation: ar are at e at t tth he heart e heart of of tth h he e p prroc oce ess ss..
The The e Bo Boar ard and it d and its Comm s Committees s ittees se e et t a c s A M d n i s g c r a e e e t A n t t i t a n a v I k r g a i t t e s S i i g m e R e e s n l P t e e D o p l e a n d V a l u e s Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59 Governance Corporate Governance Report the publishing of a quarterly risk newsletter, covering both internal are then reported to the GFRMC for consideration.
The GFRMC also and external events, to identify emerging trends and to stimulate monitors the design and implementation of financial risk policies debate on changing or emerging risks which may cross over, and compliance with Group-wide financial risk limits and appetite.
or be related to our current and future activities: Quarterly overviews of the GFRMCs activities are provided the introduction of a risk maturity model to assess the to the GRMC.
effectiveness of our risk processes across the different business The GFRMC is chaired by the Group Finance Director and units.
This has enhanced the sharing of best practice amongst membership comprises senior finance and risk personnel.
the risk community and allowed us to focus on mutual areas The Committee met 12 times in 2012.
Further details of the Groups for improvement: and Financial Risk Management are provided in note 25 to the Financial the assessment of the effectiveness of our risk management Statements on pages 111 to 114. processes, a number of internal and external audits took place.
These reviews identified a number of areas where we can further Centrica Controls Board enhance our risk management activities and these will be The Centrica Controls Board CCB, whose members are the Group developed further in 2013.
Finance Director, the Director of Corporate Finance, the Head of Risk, Controls and Audit and finance directors for each business Group risk governance structure unit, is responsible for ensuring that appropriate internal controls are in place over key operational and financial reporting processes BOARD OF DIRECTORS and related IT systems.
The CCB met twice in 2012 and is chaired by the Group Finance Director.
The responsibilities of the CCB are discharged through the Centrica Controls Steering Group CCSG and Executive Committee Audit Committee the Information Risk Steering Group IRSG.
The CCSG monitors the risks and associated controls over financial Group Risk Management Committee reporting processes, including the process by which Centricas Group Financial Statements are prepared for publication the consolidation process.
The financial reporting controls Group Centrica are monitored and maintained through the use of internal control Financial Risk Controls Board frameworks which address key financial reporting risks, including Management Committee risks arising from changes in the business or accounting standards.
Effectiveness is assessed through quarterly self-certification European & and independent testing of the controls.
The CCSG met three times Centrica Information North American Business Risk during 2012 and is chaired by the Head of Group Financial Controls.
Controls Risk Financial Risk Management Steering Steering Management Committees The IRSG monitors the Groups information systems control Group Group Committees environment, providing robust challenge to the business units to ensure that information systems risk management remains effective and appropriate for the Group.
It is also responsible Group Risk Management Committee for monitoring the progress of key information security projects.
The Group Risk Management Committee GRMC plays a pivotal The IRSG met four times during 2012 and is chaired by the Group role in the governance of risks.
Each of Centricas business units Head of Information Risk.
has a Business Risk Management Committee or equivalent management committee whose role is to evaluate, report and advise Executive Committee and Audit Committee on material risks and to consider the adequacy of controls and the The Groups material risks are also reported to the Executive actions planned to mitigate those risks.
The most material risks are Committee which regularly undertakes in depth reviews of specific then reported to the GRMC so that it has a clear understanding risks as appropriate.
of Centricas aggregate risk profile and can ensure that control At each of its meetings in 2012 the Audit Committee received a processes are in place for the monitoring and management of Group risk report, which provided an assessment of the key risks significant risks.
The Audit Committee has a standing agenda item facing the Company and the adequacy of the associated controls.
to consider the Groups key risks.
The GRMC is chaired by the Chief In addition, the Audit Committee assessed the activity of the Group Executive and membership reflects that of the Executive Committee.
internal audit function including details of findings from reviews In 2012, the GRMC met four times.
conducted against a plan which is approved annually by the Audit Group Financial Risk Management Committee Committee.
These reports, supplemented by management A separate specialised process to manage financial risks is also presentations and discussion with the Audit Committee, required to achieve adequate levels of control.
The role of the Group enable it to track issues, monitor performance and ensure Financial Risk Management Committee GFRMC is therefore that necessary actions are taken to remedy any significant to focus specifically on financial risks as part of the overall risk failings or weaknesses identified.
The Company is also aware that the integrity and reputation Additional monitoring of the Groups financial risks market, credit, of the Companys public financial reporting is of utmost importance.
liquidity risks and operational risks within the trading operations In addition to the controls described above, there are a number is performed by local Financial Risk Management Committees of further processes and steps to provide assurance over covering Europe and North America.
Material financial risk exposures 60 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Corporate Governance Report CO ORPORATE GOVERN finance E REPO ORT CO ONTINU UED the completeness and accuracy of Centricas public financial select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: the co ompleteness an nd accuracy off Centricas pub blic financial selec ct suitable acco ounting policies and then apply y them consisten ntly: reporting, including: report ting, including: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable mak ke judgements and accounting g estimates tha at are reasonab ble and prudent: review by members of the Executive Committee: and prudent: review by membe ers of the Execu utive Committee e: state whether IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable UK verification exercises: state e whether IFRS S as adopted by y the EU and a applicable UK ver rification exercis ses: Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material Accounting Standa ards have been n followed, subje ect to any mate erial review and recommendation by the Audit Committee: and review and recom mmendation by t the Audit Comm mittee: and departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent depa artures disclose ed and explaine ed in the Group p and parent company Financial Statements respectively: and review and approval by the Board.
com mpany Financial Statements re es spectively: and d review and approv val by the Boar rd.
prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis Centrica Storage and other Group companies prep pare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis Centrica Storage a and other Gro oup companie es unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will unle ess it is inapprop priate to presum me that the Company will Centrica Storage Limited, which is subject to undertakings given Centr rica Storage Lim mited, which is subject to unde ertakings given n continue in business.
to the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills, operates to the e Secretary of S State for Busine ess, Innovation and Skills, ope erates separately but to the same standards of internal control and risk separ rately but to the e same standar rds of internal c control and risk The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting The Directors are resp ponsible for kee eping adequate e accounting management as the rest of the Group.
The internal control and risk mana agement as the e rest of the Gro oup.
The interna al control and rrisk records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company's records that are suffic cient to show a an nd explain the Company's management processes of newly-acquired companies are also mana agement proces sses of newly-a acquired companies are also transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time transac ctions and disc close with reaso onable accurac cy at any time integrated with those of the Group.
integr rated with those e of the Group.. the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable the fina ancial position o of the Compan ny and the Grou up and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors' them t to ensure that th he Financial Sta atements and tthe Directors' The Boards review of the system of internal control The B Boards review w of the syste em of internal control Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, Remun neration Reportt comply with th he Companies Act 2006 and, Each year, an extensive process of self-certification operates Each year, an extens sive process off self-certificatio on operates as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS as rega ards the Group p Financial State ements, Article 4 of the IAS throughout the Group whereby the effectiveness of internal controls throug ghout the Grou up whereby the e effectiveness o of internal contrrols Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets Regula ation.
They are also responsiblle for safeguard ding the assets and compliance with Group business principles and policies and c compliance with h Group busine ess principles an nd policies of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable of the Company and the Group and d hence for takin ng reasonable are assessed.
In 2012, the self-certification was completed both are as ssessed.
In 201 12, the self-cert tification was co ompleted both steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
steps ffor the preventio on and detectio on of fraud and other irregularit ties.
at the half year and full year.
During the year, the self-certification at the e half year and ffull year.
During g the year, the self-certification process was enhanced so that it provided certification against proce ess was enhanc ced so that it provided certifica ation against Furthermore, the Directors are responsible for the maintenance Furthe ermore, the Dire ectors are respo onsible for the m maintenance a wider coverage of key controls affecting the operation a wider coverage of key controls afffecting the ope eration and integrity of the Company's website.
Legislation in the UK and int tegrity of the Co ompany's web bs site.
Legislation n in the UK of the business.
The results of the annual process, together of the e business.
The e results of the a annual process s, together governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements govern ning the prepara ation and disse emination of fina ancial statemen nts with the conclusions of the internal reviews by Internal Audit, with the conclusions s of the internal reviews by Inte ernal Audit, may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
may differ from legisla ation in other jurrisdictions.
inform the annual assessment performed by the Audit Committee.
inform m the annual as ssessment perfo ormed by the A Audit Committe ee.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed Each o of the Directors, whose names s and functions s are listed The Board, with the advice of the Audit Committee, has reviewed The B Board, with the advice of the A Audit Committee e, has reviewed d on pages 152 and 153 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge on pag ges 152 and 15 53 confirm that, to the best of their knowledg ge the effectiveness of the system of internal control, for the period from the efffectiveness of t the system of in nternal control, ffor the period frrom the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared the Gro oup Financial S Statements, wh hich have been prepared 1 January 2012 to the date of this report and is satisfied that the 1 Jan nuary 2012 to th he date of this r report and is sattisfied that the in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair in acco ordance with IF FRS as adopted d by the EU, giv five a true and fa air Group complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board will continue Group p complies with h the Turnbull G Guidance.
The B Board will contin nue view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group.
view o of the assets, lia abilities, financia al position and p profit of the Gro oup.
routinely to challenge management in order to ensure that the system routin nely to challenge e management in order to ensure that the sys stem In addition, they confirm that the Directors' Report contained on In addition, they confirm that the Dirre ectors' Report contained on of internal control is constantly improving and remains fit for purpose.
of inte ernal control is c constantly impr roving and rema ains fit for purpo ose.
pages 5 to 75, together with other disclosures given on pages 152 pages 5 to 75, togeth her with other d disclosures give en on pages 15 52 to 154, includes a fair review of the development and performance to 154 4, includes a fairr review of the d development and performanc ce Going concern Goin ng concern of the business and the position of the Group, together with a of the business and the position of tthe Group, toge ether with a After making enquiries, the Board has a reasonable expectation After making enquirie es, the Board h has a reasonab ble expectation description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
descrip ption of the prin ncipal risks and d uncertainties tthat it faces.
that the parent company and the Group as a whole has adequate that th he parent comp pany and the G Group as a who ole has adequatte resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable resou urces to continu ue in operationa al existence for the foreseeable e Disclosure of information to auditors Disclosure of information to o auditors future.
For this reason, the Board continues to adopt the going future e. For this reaso on, the Board c continues to ado opt the going Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Each o of the Directors who held office e at the date off approval of this concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Further conce ern basis in pre eparing the Fina ancial Statemen nts.
Further Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is Directo ors Report con nfirm that, so fa ar as they are aw ware, there is details of the Groups liquidity position and going concern review details s of the Groups liquidity position and going c concern review w no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors no refile evant audit inforrmation of whic ch the Compan nys auditors are provided in note 25 of the Financial Statements on pages 111 are pr rovided in note 25 of the Finan ncial Statementts on pages 111 are unaware and that they have taken all steps that they ought are unaware and thatt they have take en all steps that they ought to 114. to 114 4. to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant to have e taken as Directors to make tthemselves aw ware of any relev vant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are audit in nformation and to establish tha at the Compan nys auditors are e Directors responsibility statement Directors respo onsibility sta atement aware of that information.
aware of that informa ation.
The Directors, who are named on pages 152 and 153, are The D Directors, who a are named on p pages 152 and 153, are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors' respo onsible for prepa aring the Annua al Report, the D Directors' Independent auditors Indep pendent aud ditors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in Remu uneration Repo ort and the Financial Statements in PwC have expressed their willingness to be re-appointed as auditors PwC h have expressed d their willingnes ss to be re-app pointed as audit tors accordance with applicable law and regulations.
accor rdance with app plicable law and d regulations.
Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, of the Company.
Upo on the recomme endation of the e Audit Commit ttee, separate resolutions to re-appoint them as the Companys auditors separa ate resolutions tto re-appoint th hem as the Com mpanys audito ors Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements Comp pany law requir res the Director rs to prepare fin financial stateme ents and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will and to o authorise the D Directors to dettermine their remuneration will for each financial year.
Accordingly, the Directors have prepared the for ea ach financial yea ar.
Accordingly, the Directors h have prepared tthe be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
be pro oposed at the fo orthcoming AG GM.
Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Group p Financial Stat tements in acco ordance with In nternational Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Financial Reporting S Standards IFRS as adopted by the Europea an The Directors Report for the year comprising pages 5 to 75 together The Directors Reportt for the year co omprising page es 5 to 75 toget ther Union EU and the parent company Financial Statements Union n EU and the p parent compan ny Financial Stattements with other disclosures given on pages 152 to 154 have been with ot ther disclosures s given on page es 152 to 154 h have been in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting in acc cordance with U United Kingdom m Generally Acc cepted Accoun nting approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: approv ved by the Boa ard and signed o on its behalf by y: Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Practice United King gdom Account ting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial Unde er company law w the Directors m must not appro ove the financia al statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view statem ments unless th hey are satisfied d that they give e a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit of the e state of affairs s of the Group a and the Compa any and of the p profit Grant Dawson Grant t Dawson or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these Financial or los ss of the Group for that period.
In preparing th hese Financial General Counsel & Company Secretary Gener ral Counsel & C Company Sec cretary Statements, the Directors are required to: Statements, the Dire ectors are requiired to: 27 February 2013 27 Feb bruary 2013
