Corporate Governance | Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report Leif Johansson Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee Since joining the Board and becoming time for the Company.
My thanks go to This Corporte Governance Report Chairman, I have focused on three main John and Simon for their work in this regard describes how the Group is organised, priorities.
As Chairman of the Nomination and for their support during the transition including the overall structure and principal and Governance Committee, my first to a new CEO.
Since his appointment, roles and responsibilities of the Board, priority was to lead a thorough search for Pascal has also met numerous investors.
its Committees and the SET.
a new CEO, which started in April 2012.
He, Simon and I, supported by John Varley, Board composition, processes The section on page 117 describing the will work hard to maintain these contacts and responsibilities work of the Nomination and Governance and a constructive and frank dialogue with The Board comprises two Executive Committee gives more information about our shareholders.
Directors the CEO and the CFO and this and how the Committee and the Board My third priority has been the annual review 10 Non-Executive Directors.
The approach succession planning generally.
Due to the timing membership of the Board at 31 January I am delighted that we were able to of the CEO succession process, this has 2013 and information about individual recruit Pascal Soriot and appoint him as run over a longer period than usual to enable Directors is contained in the Board of AstraZenecas new CEO with effect from Pascal to form his conclusions about Directors section on pages 106 and 107.
Pascal stood out from a strong AstraZenecas strengths, weaknesses eld of candidates and has a number of All Directors are collectively responsible and the best strategy for its future success.
attributes that made him the outstanding for the success of the Group.
In addition, From a corporate governance perspective, candidate.
Succession planning remains the Non-Executive Directors are responsible my aim has been to ensure that the review the main focus of the Nomination and for exercising independent, objective has been thorough: that a good, open and Governance Committees work.
judgement in respect of Board decisions robust discussion about all aspects of the and for scrutinising and challenging Alongside the CEO search, I also spent strategy has taken place at the Board management.
The Non-Executive Directors a significant amount of time following my table with management being challenged also have various responsibilities concerning appointment meeting shareholders in the appropriately about their proposals and the integrity of financial information, internal UK, Sweden and the US and listening to recommendations: and that all Board controls and risk management.
I was supported members have felt able to and have, Corporate governance in this by John Varley, who became senior in fact, contributed fully to that discussion.
We have prepared this Annual Report with independent Non-Executive Director in April Leif Johansson reference to the UK Corporate Governance 2012, and Simon Lowth, CFO who acted Chairman Code published by the UK Financial as Interim CEO for four months at a critical Length of tenure of Directors nationalities Gender split Non-Executive Directors years of Directors A A D G B B F C C B A E D A Bruce Burlington 2 A American 1 A Male 9 B Shriti Vadera 2 B British 6 B Female 3 C Marcus Wallenberg 13 C French 3 D Jean-Philippe Courtois 4 D Swedish 2 E Rudy Markham 4 F John Varley 6 G Nancy Rothwell 6 Leif Johansson, Genevive Berger and Graham Chipchase have served for less than one year 110 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Reporting Council FRC in June 2010.
The membership and work of these issues, and the formal annual strategy This Corporate Governance Report Committees is described below.
The Board also aims to ensure together with other sections of this Annual there may from time to time be constituted that a good dialogue with our shareholders Report describes how we apply the main ad hoc Board Committees for specic takes place and that their issues and principles of good governance in the UK projects or tasks.
In these cases, the scope concerns are understood and considered.
We have and responsibilities of the Committee are The Board held 14 meetings in 2012, complied throughout the accounting period documented.
The Board provides adequate which included sessions to cover its usual with the provisions of the UK Corporate resources to enable each Committee to annual strategy review.
Eight of those Governance Code, which is available on undertake its duties.
meetings were telephone meetings, the FRCs website, frc.
Reserved matters and delegation some convened at short notice, at which Leadership of authority Board changes and business development The roles of Chairman and CEO are split.
The Board maintains and periodically transactions were discussed and approved.
Leif Johansson, our Non-Executive reviews a list of matters that are reserved All of the meetings held in person took Chairman, is responsible for leadership of to, and can only be approved by, the Board.
The Board is currently the Board.
Our CEO, Pascal Soriot, leads These include: the appointment, termination scheduled to meet six times in 2013, the SET and has executive responsibility for and remuneration of any Director: approval and will meet at such other times as running our business.
The Board comprises of the annual budget: any item of xed may be required to conduct business.
10 Non-Executive Directors, including the capital expenditure or any proposal for the As part of the business of each Board Chairman, and two Executive Directors acquisition or disposal of an investment or meeting, the CEO typically submits a the CEO, Pascal Soriot, and the CFO, business which exceeds $150 million: the progress report on each key business Simon Lowth.
raising of capital or loans by the Company area, giving details of progress against the subject to certain exceptions : the giving of All Directors are collectively responsible goals the Board has approved.
To ensure any guarantee in respect of any borrowing for our long-term success.
In addition, the that the Board has good visibility of the of the Company: and allotting shares of the Non-Executive Directors are responsible key operating decisions of the business, Company.
The matters that have not been for exercising independent, objective members of the SET routinely attend expressly reserved to the Board are either judgement in respect of Board decisions Board meetings on a rotational basis and delegated by the Board to its Committees and for scrutinising and challenging the Board members regularly meet other or to the CEO.
senior executives throughout the year.
The CEO is responsible to the Board The Board also receives accounting and The Board runs an annual strategy review for the management, development and other management information about our process.
The CEO, the CFO and the SET performance of our business in relation to resources, and presentations from internal take the lead in developing our strategy, those matters in respect of which he has and external speakers on legal, governance which is then reviewed, constructively been delegated authority from the Board.
At the end challenged and approved by the Board.
of Board meetings, the Non-Executive Although the CEO retains full responsibility John Varley, who joined the Board as Directors meet without the Executive for the authority delegated to him by the a Non-Executive Director in 2006, was Directors present to review and discuss any Board, he is responsible for establishing, appointed as our senior independent matters that have arisen during the meeting and chairs, the SET, which is the vehicle Non-Executive Director in April 2012. and or such other matters as may appear through which he exercises certain of that The role of the senior independent to the Non-Executive Directors to be authority in respect of our business.
Non-Executive Director is to provide a relevant in properly discharging their sounding board for the Chairman and The roles of the Board, the Board duty to act independently.
to serve as an intermediary for the other Committees, the Chairman and the Board effectiveness Directors when necessary.
The senior CEO are documented, as are the Boards Composition of the Board, independent Non-Executive Director is delegated authorities and reserved powers.
succession planning and diversity also available to shareholders if they have Operation of the Board The Nomination and Governance concerns that contact through the normal The Board is responsible for setting our Committee and, where appropriate, the channels of Chairman or Executive Directors strategy and policies, oversight of risk and full Board regularly review the composition has failed to resolve, or for which such corporate governance, and also monitors of the Board and the status of succession contact is inappropriate.
progress towards meeting our objectives to both senior executive management There are four principal Board Committees: and annual plans.
The Board discharges and Board-level positions.
Directors the Audit Committee: the Remuneration these responsibilities through a programme have regular contact with, and access to, Committee: the Nomination and Governance of meetings that includes regular reviews of succession candidates for senior executive Committee: and the Science Committee.
financial performance and critical business management positions.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 111 Corporate Governance | Corporate Governance Report The Board aims to maintain a balance in Louis Schweitzer and David Brennan, Independence of the terms of the range of experience and skills formerly Chairman and CEO respectively, Non-Executive Directors of individual Board members, which retired from the Board on 1 June.
During 2012, the Board considered the includes relevant international business, Leif Johansson was elected as a independence of each Non-Executive pharmaceutical industry and financial Non-Executive Director at the AGM on Director for the purposes of the UK experience, as well as appropriate scientific 26 April 2012 and appointed Chairman Corporate Governance Code and the and regulatory knowledge.
The biographies of the Board with effect from 1 June.
corporate governance listing standards of Board members set out on pages 106 He was appointed Chairman of the of the NYSE Listing Standards.
With the and 107 give more information about Nomination and Governance Committee exception of Marcus Wallenberg, the Board current Directors in this respect.
The and as a member of the Remuneration considers that all of the Non-Executive Board views gender, nationality and Committee with effect from 26 April 2012.
Leif Johansson cultural diversity among Board members Pascal Soriot was appointed CEO with was considered by the Board to be as important considerations when reviewing effect from 1 October.
independent upon his appointment as the composition of the Board.
The Board Simon Lowth served as Interim CEO with Chairman.
In accordance with the UK recognises, in particular, the importance effect from 1 June and remained in this Corporate Governance Code, the test of of gender diversity.
Currently, 30% of the role until Pascal Soriots appointment, independence is not appropriate in relation Companys Non-Executive Directors are following which he reverted to his position to the Chairman after his appointment.
women and they make up 25% of the full as CFO.
Marcus Wallenberg was appointed Board.
Since the formation of AstraZeneca Michele Hooper retired from the Board as a Director of Astra in May 1989 and in 1999, the proportion of women Board at the end of the AGM on 26 April 2012. subsequently became a Director of the members has been approximately 25%.
John Varley was appointed as senior Company in 1999.
He is a Non-Executive Although it has not set any specic independent Non-Executive Director Director of Investor AB, which has a 4.13% measurable objectives, the Board intends with effect from 26 April 2012. interest in the issued share capital of the to continue with its current approach to Rudy Markham was appointed as Company as at 31 January 2013. diversity in all its aspects, while at the same Chairman of the Audit Committee and Wallenberg family foundations remain time seeking Board members of the highest as a member of the Nomination and Investor ABs largest shareholders in terms calibre and with the necessary experience Governance Committee with effect from of votes controlled.
For these reasons, and skills to meet the needs of the 26 April 2012.
He also remained in his the Board does not believe that Marcus Company and its shareholders.
Information role as a member of the Remuneration Wallenberg can be determined independent about our approach to diversity in the Committee.
under the UK Corporate Governance organisation below Board-level can be Genevive Berger was elected as a Code.
However, the Board believes that found in the People section from page 43.
Non-Executive Director and appointed he has brought, and continues to bring, as a member of the Science Committee The following changes to the composition considerable business experience and with effect from 26 April 2012. of the Board have occurred during the makes a valuable contribution to the work Graham Chipchase was elected as a period covered by this Annual Report: of the Board.
In April 2010, he was Non-Executive Director and appointed appointed as a member of the Science as a member of the Audit Committee Committee, reecting his interest in with effect from 26 April 2012. innovation and R&D, knowledge of the Board Committee membership Nomination and 1 Name Audit Remuneration Governance ScienceIndependent Genevive Berger Bruce Burlington Graham Chipchase Jean-Philippe Courtois 2 Leif Johansson Chair Simon Lowth n a Rudy Markham Chair Nancy Rothwell Chair Pascal Soriot n a Shriti Vadera John Varley Chair Marcus Wallenberg x 1 As determined by the Board for UK Corporate Governance Code purposes.
2 Leif Johansson was considered by the Board to be independent upon his appointment as Chairman: in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after his appointment.
112 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information history of the Company and its scientific Newly appointed Directors are provided views are made known and considered at heritage and culture, and his broad with comprehensive documentation the meeting.
In addition, given the nature of experience of other industries and containing information about the Group the business to be conducted, some Board businesses in which innovation and R&D and their role as Non-Executive Directors.
meetings are convened at short notice, are important determinants of success.
They also typically attend tailored induction which can make it difficult for some Directors programmes that take account of their to attend due to prior commitments.
Conicts of interest individual skills and experience.
The Articles enable the Directors to Information and support authorise any situation in which a Director Time commitment The Company Secretary is responsible has an interest that conicts or has the Our expectation is that Non-Executive to the Chairman for ensuring that all potential to conict with the Companys Directors should be prepared to commit Board and Board Committee meetings interests and which would otherwise be a about 15 days per annum, as a minimum, are properly conducted, that the Directors breach of the Directors duty, under section to the Groups business.
In practice, Board receive appropriate information prior to 175 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board members time commitment usually exceeds meetings to enable them to make an has a formal system in place for Directors to this minimum expectation when all the effective contribution, and that governance declare such situations to be considered for work that they undertake for the Group is requirements are considered and authorisation by those Directors who have considered, particularly in the case of the implemented.
no interest in the matter being considered.
Chairman of the Board and the Chairmen The Company maintained directors and In deciding whether to authorise a situation, of the Board Committees.
As well as their ofcers liability insurance cover throughout the non-conicted Directors must act in the work in relation to formal Board and Board 2012.
The Directors are also able to obtain way they consider, in good faith, would be Committee meetings, the Non-Executive independent legal advice at the expense most likely to promote the success of the Directors also commit time throughout the of the Company, as necessary, in their Company, and they may impose limits or year to meetings and telephone calls with capacity as Directors.
conditions when giving the authorisation, or various levels of executive management, subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
visits to AstraZenecas sites throughout the The Company has entered into a deed of Situations considered by the Board and world and, for new Non-Executive Directors, indemnity in favour of each Board member authorisations given are recorded in the induction sessions and site visits.
These deeds of indemnity are Board minutes and in a register of conicts still in force and provide that the Company On occasions when a Director is maintained by the Company Secretary shall indemnify the Directors to the fullest unavoidably absent from a Board or Board and are reviewed annually by the Board.
extent permitted by law and the Articles, Committee meeting, for example where The Board considers that this system in respect of all losses arising out of, or a meeting clashes with his or her existing continues to operate effectively.
in connection with, the execution of their commitments, he or she still receives and powers, duties and responsibilities, as Appointments to the Board reviews the papers for the meeting and Directors of the Company or any of its The Nomination and Governance typically provides verbal or written input subsidiaries.
This is in line with current Committee section on page 117 gives ahead of the meeting, usually through the market practice and helps us attract and information about the appointment Chairman of the Board or the Chairman retain high-quality, skilled Directors.
of the Board Committee, so that his or her Board and Board Committee meeting attendance in 2012 Nomination Board Board and 1 Name scheduled unscheduled Audit Remuneration Governance Science 2 Genevive Berger 4 4 2 5 7 7 3 David Brennan 2 2 3 3 2 2 Bruce Burlington 6 6 8 8 7 7 7 7 4 Graham Chipchase 4 4 3 5 4 4 Jean-Philippe Courtois 5 6 5 8 5 7 5 Michele Hooper 2 2 3 3 3 3 2 2 6 Leif Johansson 4 4 5 5 9 9 4 4 7 Simon Lowth 6 6 6 8 7 7 Rudy Markham 6 6 6 8 7 7 9 12 4 4 Nancy Rothwell 6 6 8 8 7 12 6 6 7 7 8 Louis Schweitzer 2 2 3 3 5 5 2 2 9 Pascal Soriot 2 2 2 2 Shriti Vadera 6 6 8 8 7 7 John Varley 6 6 8 8 12 12 6 6 Marcus Wallenberg 6 6 6 8 5 7 Note: number in brackets denotes number of meetings during the year that Board members were entitled to attend.
1 The Board held eight unscheduled meetings by telephone during the year, some convened at short notice, at which Board changes and business development transactions were discussed and approved.
2 Genevive Berger was elected to the Board on 26 April 2012.
3 David Brennan retired from the Board on 1 June.
4 Graham Chipchase was elected to the Board on 26 April 2012.
5 Michele Hooper retired from the Board on 26 April 2012.
6 Leif Johansson was elected to the Board on 26 April 2012.
7 At the Chairmans request, Simon Lowth absented himself from two of the eight unscheduled meetings at which Board changes were discussed.
8 Louis Schweitzer retired from the Board on 1 June.
9 Pascal Soriot was appointed to the Board on 1 October.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 113 Corporate Governance | Corporate Governance Report Performance evaluation As part of the assessment process, each The internal control framework has been During the year, the Board conducted Director had an individual discussion with in operation throughout 2012 and continues the annual evaluation of its own the Chairman to discuss their contribution to operate up to the date of the approval performance and that of its Committees to the work of the Board and personal of this Annual Report.
The Directors believe and individual Directors.
Each Director that the Group maintains an effective, continues to perform effectively and to embedded system of internal controls The 2012 evaluation was conducted demonstrate commitment to their role.
and complies with the Turnbull Report internally and involved a series of guidance and, in the view of the Directors, web-based questionnaires.
A draft report The Boards annual performance evaluation no significant deficiencies have been based on responses from the questionnaires was last externally facilitated in 2011. identied in the system.
was prepared and reviewed by the The Board intends to continue to comply Chairman and the Company Secretary.
with the UK Corporate Governance Further information about the ways The final report was circulated to the full Code guidance that the evaluation should in which we manage our business risks Board and discussed at the Board meeting be externally facilitated at least every is set out in the Risk section from page 74, held in January 2013.
which also contains a list of the principal covered a range of topics, including: the risks and uncertainties that we face.
Re-election of Directors composition of the Board: the effectiveness In accordance with Article 66 of the Remuneration of its strategic oversight: Board members Articles, all Directors retire at each AGM Information about our approach to involvement in the affairs of the Company and may offer themselves for re-election remuneration and the role and work outside Board meetings: decision making by shareholders.
Accordingly, all of the of the Remuneration Committee, including and time management: the nature and Directors will retire at the AGM in April 2013. our policy on executive remuneration, quality of the information and general The Notice of AGM will give details of those is set out in the Directors Remuneration support provided to the Board: its approach Directors seeking re-election.
Report from page 122. to risk management and oversight of internal controls: and succession planning and Accountability Relations with shareholders how effectively the Board prioritises Risk management and internal control In our financial and business reporting matters.
Separate questionnaires covered The Non-Executive Directors have various to shareholders and other interested parties by means of quarterly, half-yearly and annual the operation and effectiveness of the responsibilities concerning the integrity of reports, we aim to present a balanced and Boards Committees, and relevant Board financial information, internal controls and understandable assessment of our strategy, members those serving in the period risk management.
January to April 2012 also responded The Board has overall responsibility to a questionnaire dealing specically for our system of internal controls and We make information about the Group with shareholder engagement.
risk management policies and is also available to shareholders through a range The composition and dynamics of the responsible for reviewing their effectiveness.
of media, including a fully integrated Board were generally thought to be During 2012, the Directors have continued html corporate website, astrazeneca.
Information to review the effectiveness of our system containing a wide range of data of interest ows to the Board from the management of controls, risk management and our to institutional and private investors.
team, and from Board Committees, high-level internal control processes.
These We consider our website to be an were usually considered to be good and reviews have included an assessment of important means of communication Board meetings were generally felt to internal controls, and in particular, financial, with our shareholders.
The expanded role operational and compliance controls and The Company has been authorised of the Science Committee reviewing the risk management and their effectiveness, by shareholders to place shareholder R&D aspects of a number of business supported by management assurance communications such as the Notice development and acquisition proposals of the maintenance of controls reports of AGM and this Annual Report on the on behalf of the Board was seen as from GIA, as well as the external auditor corporate website in lieu of sending a positive development.
However, a number on matters identied in the course of paper copies to shareholders unless of areas were identied for improvement.
The system is specically requested by shareholders.
The importance of shareholder engagement designed to manage rather than eliminate While recognising and respecting the and succession planning were highlighted the risk of failure to achieve business fact that some of our shareholders may by the performance evaluation.
The Boards objectives and can only provide reasonable have different preferences about how visibility of major shareholders views will not necessarily absolute assurance of they receive information from us, we be improved.
The engagement of the effective operation and compliance with will continue to promote the benets new Chairman and, more recently, the new laws and regulations.
of electronic communication given the CEO with the Companys largest investors Underpinning these reviews is an annual advantages that this has over traditional is contributing to this but, in addition, more letter of assurance process by which paper-based communications, both in structured and regular discussion on this responsible managers confirm the terms of the congurability and accessibility topic and greater analyst broker insight adequacy of their systems of internal of the information provided and the at Board-level will be implemented.
In financial and non-financial controls, their consequent cost savings and reduction recent years, the Boards overview of compliance with Group policies and in environmental impact associated with senior executive succession planning relevant laws and regulations including reduced printing and distribution costs.
work has increased but needs to be further the industrys regulatory requirements, We have frequent discussions with improved by the Board receiving more and that they have reported any control institutional shareholders on a range detailed information about the work of the weaknesses through our continuous of issues.
These include individual meetings Nomination and Governance Committee.
with some of our largest institutional shareholders to seek their views.
Board 114 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information members are kept informed of any The Deputy Company Secretary acts cover three categories of work: audit issues and receive regular reports and as secretary to the Audit Committee.
services, audit-related services and tax presentations from executive management services.
The policies define the type The core terms of reference of the Audit and our brokers in order to assist them of work that falls within each of these Committee include, reviewing and reporting to develop an understanding of major categories and the non-audit services to the Board on: shareholders views about the Group.
that the external auditor is prohibited from matters relating to the audit plans From time to time, we conduct an audit performing under the rules of the SEC and of the external auditor and GIA as well of institutional shareholders to ensure that other relevant UK and US professional and as oversight of the work of the Global we are communicating clearly with them regulatory requirements.
The pre-approval Compliance function and that a high-quality dialogue is being procedures permit certain audit, auditour overall framework for internal control maintained.
The results of this audit are related and tax services to be performed over financial reporting and for other reported to, and discussed by, the full Board.
by the external auditor during the year, internal controls and processes subject to fee limits agreed with the Audit We also respond to individual ad hoc our overall framework for risk Committee in advance.
The CFO supported requests for discussions from institutional management, particularly financial risks by the Vice-President, Group Finance shareholders and analysts.
Our Investor our accounting policies and practices monitors the status of all services being Relations team acts as the main point of our annual and quarterly financial provided by the external auditor.
The contact for investors throughout the year.
reporting, including the critical estimates procedures also deal with placing non-audit As discussed above, the senior independent and judgements contained in our reporting work out for tender, where appropriate.
Non-Executive Director, John Varley, is our internal control over financial reporting Authority to approve work in excess of the also available to shareholders if they have our Code of Conduct and whistleblower pre-agreed fee limits is delegated to the concerns that contact through the normal procedures Chairman of the Audit Committee together channels of Chairman, CEO and or CFO compliance with the Corporate Integrity with one other Audit Committee member has failed to resolve, or in relation to Agreement CIA.
A standing agenda item which such contact is inappropriate.
at Audit Committee meetings covers the All shareholders, including private investors, The Audit Committee is responsible for operation of the pre-approval procedures have an opportunity at the AGM to put notifying the Board of any significant and regular reports are provided to the full questions to members of the Board concerns of the external auditor or the Audit Committee.
Fees paid to the auditor about our operation and performance.
Vice-President, GIA arising from their for audit, audit-related and other services Formal notication of the AGM is sent to audit work, any matters that may materially are analysed in Note 27 to the Financial shareholders at least one month in advance.
affect or impair the independence of the Statements on page 190.
The Chairmen of the Board Committees external auditor, any significant deficiencies ordinarily attend the AGM to answer or material weaknesses in the design The Audit Committee held seven scheduled questions raised by shareholders.
In line or operation of our internal control over meetings in 2012.
The individual attendance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, financial reporting or other internal controls, record of members of the Audit Committee details of proxy voting by shareholders, any serious issues of non-compliance is set out in the Board and Board Committee including votes withheld, are given at the and how the Audit Committee has meeting attendance in 2012 table on page AGM and are posted on our website discharged its responsibilities.
Following each Audit Committee meeting, following the AGM.
the establishment, implementation and the Chairman of the Audit Committee reported maintenance of our Code of Conduct to the Board on the principal matters covered Audit Committee and other related policies.
It monitors the at the meeting and minutes of the meetings The members of the Audit Committee are Companys response to letters requesting were circulated to all Board members.
Rudy Markham Chairman of the Audit information and investigations initiated by In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Bruce Burlington, Graham regulatory and governmental authorities Committee held regular scheduled calls Chipchase, Jean-Philippe Courtois and such as the SEC and the US Department between Audit Committee meetings with Shriti Vadera and, until her retirement at of Justice and the UK Financial Reporting each of the Vice-President, GIA, the Chief the 2012 AGM, Michele Hooper.
They are Council pertaining to matters within Compliance officer, the CFO and the lead or in the case of Michele Hooper, were the remit of the Audit Committees work.
partner of the external auditor.
The Board It has established procedures for the receipt considers each member to be independent During 2012 and January 2013, the Audit and handling of complaints concerning under the UK Corporate Governance Committee considered and discussed the accounting or audit matters.
It recommends Code and under the general guidance and following matters: to the Board the appointment of the specic criteria of the Listing Standards external auditor, subject to the approval of The key elements of the financial concerning the composition of audit the Companys shareholders at a general statements, and estimates and committees applicable to non-US meeting.
Shareholders in a general judgements contained in our financial companies listed on the NYSE.
In April meeting authorise the Directors to x disclosures, which were reviewed and 2012, we submitted the required annual the remuneration of the external auditor.
written afrmation to the NYSE conrming The Audit Committee reviews and approves These included the areas described our full compliance with those standards.
the appointment and dismissal of the in the Financial Review under the For the purposes of the UK Corporate Vice-President, GIA.
heading Critical Accounting Policies Governance Code, the Board remains and Estimates with a focus on satisfied that at least one member of the The Audit Committee maintains policies and accounting issues relevant to litigation Audit Committee has recent and relevant procedures for the pre-approval of all audit and taxation matters and goodwill financial experience.
At its meeting in services and permitted non-audit services impairment from page 99 and discussion December, the Board determined that undertaken by the external auditor, the was supported by papers prepared by Rudy Markham and Graham Chipchase principal purpose of which is to ensure that management and the external auditor.
are audit committee financial experts for the independence of the external auditor is the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The policies and procedures AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 115 Corporate Governance | Corporate Governance Report The reports received from the external Reports from the General Counsel Learning about AstraZenecas business auditor concerning its audit of the on the status of certain litigation matters processing outsourcing centre of Financial Statements of the Group and governmental investigations.
excellence and the work it does to and from management, GIA, Global The amount of audit and non-audit fees support the various outsourcing initiatives Compliance and the external auditor on of the external auditor throughout 2012. currently ongoing in the business the effectiveness of our system of internal The Audit Committee was satisfied as we seek to reduce our cost base.
controls and, in particular, our internal throughout the year that the objectivity Receiving regular updates from the IS IT control over financial reporting.
This and independence of the external auditor team in connection with the transition included review and discussion of the were not in any way impaired by the from the Companys previous IT results of the continuous assurance nature of the non-audit work undertaken infrastructure outsourcing provider and annual letter of assurance by the external auditor during the year, the to its new providers.
The Audit Committee also level of non-audit fees charged for such Considering a presentation on the lessons reviewed quarterly activity reports of work or any other facts or circumstances.
learnt from the implementation of an audit work carried out by GIA and the Further information about the audit and enterprise resource planning IT system status of follow-up actions with non-audit fees for 2012 is disclosed in at our plant in Sweden which led to management as well as reports Note 27 to the Financial Statements on disruptions in our supply chain during from the Global Compliance function.
The systems and processes that The rotation of the lead partner of the Meeting with the Global Compliance management has developed pertaining external auditor.
In advance of the expiry Leadership Team which comprises to risk identication, classication of the permitted tenure of the lead audit representatives from the second line and mitigation.
partner, Jimmy Daboo, at the conclusion assurance functions in R&D, Operations, Compliance with the applicable provisions of the 2012 audit, the Audit Committee and Sales and Marketing.
In particular, oversaw a process whereby a number Considering the risks associated with the Audit Committee regularly reviewed of potential successors were considered the Groups pension and other benefit the status of compliance with the and Tony Cates was endorsed as obligations and the steps taken to programme of internal controls over his successor.
The Audit Committee manage those risks.
financial reporting implemented pursuant also considered the external auditors Monitoring the operation of controls and to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley proposed arrangements to ensure an reporting arrangements, cognisant of the Act.
The Audit Committee remained effective handover of responsibilities.
additional pressures on management focused on IS IT controls in the context A review and assessment of the during the tenure of the Interim CFO.
of the changes to the Groups IS IT Audit Committees performance In addition to the quarterly reporting environment, described below.
Further which concluded that such performance stipulated by the CIA as described above, information about this is set out in the was satisfactory.
a number of other obligations required by Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404 section In line with its normal practice, the Audit the CIA were discharged by members of on page 103.
Committee also held a number of private the Board and the Audit Committee during Data about reports made by employees meetings, without management present, 2012.
For example, all members of the via the AZethics helpline, online facilities with the Vice-President, GIA, the Chief Board completed the annual CIA-required and other routes regarding potential Compliance officer, the General Counsel training, addressing the Code of Conduct breaches of the Code of Conduct and the Companys external auditor.
and the elements of the CIA and the US together with the results of inquiries These meetings were held between Audit compliance programme.
Committee members and those individuals, the Board adopted a resolution signed by Quarterly reports received from the separately from the main sessions of the each member in respect of the second US Compliance officer responsible for Audit Committee, which were also attended 12 month reporting period under the CIA.
monitoring the US business compliance by the CEO, the CFO, the General Counsel The resolution summarised the Boards with the CIA for more information about and the Vice-President, Group Finance.
oversight of the US compliance programme the obligations imposed on the Board and stated that, to the best of the Boards In addition to its usual business as by the CIA, see below.
knowledge, AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals, described above, during 2012, members Regular progress updates from IS IT LP and AstraZeneca LP AstraZenecas of the Audit Committee met individual on the status of the transition from the principal US trading entities have managers or groups of managers on existing outsource provider to the new implemented an effective US compliance a number of occasions in order to gain providers.
programme to meet Federal healthcare a deeper insight into areas relevant to the Reports from the Group Treasury function programme, FDA and CIA requirements.
Audit Committees work and to provide and, in particular, reports concerning an opportunity to discuss specic areas In accordance with its normal practice, the Groups liquidity and cash position of interest.
These included: the Audit Committee considered the and the appropriateness of its cash performance of our external auditor KPMG management policies in the context Considering the potential impact of Audit Plc KPMG.
It also considered of the current economic situation.
the eurozone crisis on AstraZenecas KPMGs compliance with the independence Going concern assessment and adoption operations, in particular in Greece, criteria under the relevant statutory, of the going concern basis in preparing Italy and Spain.
regulatory and ethical standards applicable this Annual Report and the Financial Hearing from the regional finance to auditors and assessed its objectivity, Statements.
directors of the Americas, Asia Pacic taking into account the level of challenge Other reports concerning the GIA, and EMEA regions on the financial provided around the critical estimates Global Compliance and Finance objectives, the local challenges and and judgements involved in our financial functions, including the internal audit organisational structures in their plan and progress and plans of the respective regions and learning Global Compliance function.
how the Group Finance organisation supports AstraZenecas network of local marketing companies.
116 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information reporting and the quality of our internal Code of Conduct During 2012, the members of the control over financial reporting.
Having Our Code of Conduct the Code, which is Nomination and Governance Committee considered all these factors, the Audit available on our website, astrazeneca.
com, were Louis Schweitzer Chairman of the Committee unanimously recommended applies worldwide to all full-time and Committee until 26 April 2012 and member to the Board that a resolution for the part-time AstraZeneca Directors, ofcers, until his retirement on 1 June, Leif Johansson re-appointment of KPMG as the Companys employees and temporary staff.
Further member and Chairman of the Committee external auditor for the year ending information relating to the Code can from 26 April 2012, John Varley, Rudy 31 December 2013, be proposed to be found in the Compliance section Markham from 26 April 2012 and Michele shareholders at the AGM in April 2013. on page 47.
Hooper until her retirement on 26 April 2012.
Each of them is and in the case Consistent with current market practice, A Group Finance Code of Conduct of each of Louis Schweitzer and Michele KPMGs services to the Company are complements the Code.
It applies to Hooper, was a Non-Executive Director provided pursuant to terms of engagement the CEO, the CFO, the Groups principal and considered independent by the Board.
which are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
accounting ofcers including key Finance Each of Louis Schweitzer and Leif Neither these terms of engagement nor any staff in major overseas subsidiaries and Johansson was considered by the Board other agreement include any contractual all Finance function employees.
This to be independent upon his appointment obligations under which the Directors would reinforces the importance of the integrity as Chairman: in accordance with the UK be prevented from appointing a different of the Groups Financial Statements, the Corporate Governance Code, the test of audit rm were they to consider this to reliability of the accounting records on independence is not appropriate in relation be in the best interests of the Group.
The which they are based and the robustness to the Chairman after his appointment.
The Audit Committee, through management, of the relevant controls and processes.
Company Secretary acts as secretary to the continues to maintain contact and dialogue Remuneration Committee Nomination and Governance Committee.
with other major audit rms who are familiar The principal role of the Remuneration with the Groups business for succession The Nomination and Governance Committee is to consider and set, on purposes as required.
This is reported to Committee considers both planned and behalf of the Board, the remuneration the Audit Committee in order to ensure a unplanned unanticipated succession including pension rights and compensation smooth transition from the current auditor, scenarios.
It was anticipated that Louis payments of Executive Directors and other should this be necessary.
In December Schweitzer would retire from the Board in senior executives.
It also considers and 2012, the Audit Committee reviewed the 2012 and, consequently, a thorough search sets the remuneration of the Chairman, changes to the UK Corporate Governance for a new Chairman was started at the in conjunction with the senior independent Code with regard to putting the external beginning of 2011.
Although Mr Schweitzer Non-Executive Director and in the absence audit contract out to tender at least every retired a few months earlier than originally of the Chairman.
No Director is involved 10 years.
It noted that KPMG was first envisaged, succession plans were in deciding his or her own remuneration.
appointed as sole external auditor to well-advanced and our new Chairman, More information is set out in the Directors AstraZeneca in 2001 following a competitive Leif Johansson, joined the Board in April Remuneration Report from page 122. tender.
The Audit Committee concluded 2012 and became Chairman in June.
In the that, as the lead audit partner at KPMG Nomination and Governance fourth quarter of 2010, in anticipation of the is rotating in 2013, then in accordance Committee likelihood of David Brennan retiring within with the transitional guidance issued by The Nomination and Governance the next two years, the Nomination and the FRC, the audit would be put out to Committees role is to recommend to the Governance Committee engaged the tender by 2018.
Board any new Board appointments and search rm Spencer Stuart to carry out to consider, more broadly, succession a desktop exercise to identify potential At the January 2013 meeting, the CFO plans at Board level.
It continually reviews external candidates for this position.
This presented to the Audit Committee the the composition of the Board using a matrix work, combined with a good overview of conclusions of the CEO and the CFO that records the skills and experience of potential internal candidates as a result of following the evaluation of the effectiveness current Board members and comparing the Boards normal work with and exposure of our disclosure controls and procedures this with the desired skills and experience it to senior executives, put the Nomination required by Item 15 a of Form 20-F at believes are appropriate to the Companys and Governance Committee in a position 31 December 2012.
Based on their evaluation, overall business and strategic needs both to react quickly to Mr Brennans decision the CEO and the CFO concluded that, as now and in the future.
Any decisions relating in 2012 that he wished to retire.
A strong at that date, we maintain an effective system to the appointment of Directors are made slate of internal and external candidates was of disclosure controls and procedures.
by the entire Board based on the merits of identied, who were thoroughly assessed the candidates and the relevance of their There was no change in our internal control over the summer of 2012, leading to the background and experience, measured over financial reporting that occurred during appointment of Pascal Soriot as CEO with against objective criteria, with care taken the period covered by this Annual Report effect from 1 October.
to ensure that appointees have enough that has materially affected, or is reasonably The Nomination and Governance likely to materially affect, our internal control time to devote to our business.
Committee met six times in 2012.
The Nomination and Governance of its work during the year naturally focused The Audit Committee is currently scheduled Committee also advises the Board on the recruitment of Mr Soriot.
The to meet six times in 2013 and will meet at periodically on significant developments Committee engaged Spencer Stuart such other times as may be required.
in corporate governance and the to assist it with the assignment.
Companys compliance with the UK The Audit Committees terms of Corporate Governance Code.
reference are available on our website, astrazeneca.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 117 Corporate Governance | Corporate Governance Report The ad hoc Board Committee formed approaches we adopt in respect of our over financial reporting and to assess for the purpose of appointing a new chosen Therapy Areas annually the effectiveness of such internal Chairman of the Board also completed scientific technology and R&D capabilities control.
We have complied with those its work during 2012 and the appointment deployed provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of Leif Johansson was announced by the decision making processes for R&D applicable to foreign private issuers.
He was elected projects and programmes The Board continues to believe that the as a Director at the AGM on 26 April 2012 quality of our scientists, career Group has a sound corporate governance and became Chairman with effect from opportunities and talent development framework, good processes for the accurate 1 June.
This work was led by Michele benchmarking against industry and and timely reporting of its financial position Hooper in her capacity as senior independent scientific best practice, where and results of operations, and an effective Non-Executive Director and the search rm, appropriate.
and robust system of internal controls.
We MWM Consulting, was engaged to assist have established a Disclosure Committee, The Science Committee also reviews, with the assignment.
further details of which can be found in from time to time, important bioethical the Disclosure Committee section on the The Nomination and Governance issues that we face, and assists in the page opposite.
Committee also recommended to the formulation of, and agrees on behalf Board the appointments of Genevive of the Board, appropriate policies in relation The Directors assessment of the Berger and Graham Chipchase during to such issues.
It may also consider, effectiveness of the internal control over the year as part of routine Board succession from time to time, future trends in medical financial reporting is set out in the Directors planning.
Professor Berger and Mr science and technology.
The Science Responsibilities for, and Report on, Internal Chipchase were elected to the Board Committee does not review individual R&D Control over Financial Reporting section on 26 April 2012 and became members projects.
However, during 2012 the Science in the Financial Statements on page 140. of the Science Committee and the Audit Committee did review on behalf of the We are required to disclose any significant Committee, respectively, from the same Board the R&D aspects of a number ways in which our corporate governance date.
Professor Berger strengthens the of specic business development or practices differ from those followed by US Boards scientific and R&D knowledge acquisition proposals and advised the companies under the Listing Standards.
Mr Chipchase adds Board on its conclusions.
In addition, we must comply fully with the to the Boards international business During 2012, the members of the Science provisions of the Listing Standards relating leadership.
The Nomination and Governance Committee, all of whom have a knowledge to the composition, responsibilities and Committee engaged MWM Consulting and of, or an interest in, life sciences, were operation of audit committees, applicable The Zygos Partnership to assist it with the Nancy Rothwell Chairman of the Science to foreign private issuers.
These provisions assignments to appoint Professor Berger Committee, Bruce Burlington, Marcus incorporate the rules concerning audit and Mr Chipchase respectively.
Wallenberg and Genevive Berger from committees implemented by the SEC under Neither MWM Consulting nor The Zygos 26 April 2012.
The President, Global R&D: the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
We have reviewed Partnership has any other connection the Executive Vice-President, Innovative the corporate governance practices to the Company.
Spencer Stuart undertakes Medicines: the Executive Vice-President, required to be followed by US companies executive search assignments for the MedImmune: and the Executive Viceunder the Listing Standards and our Company periodically.
President, Global Medicines Development corporate governance practices are attended meetings of the Science generally consistent with those standards.
The individual attendance record of the Committee in 2012.
The Vice-President, Business organisation Nomination and Governance Committees Strategy, Portfolio & Performance, R&D Senior Executive Team members is set out on page 113.
During also attended all meetings and acted as The CEO is responsible for establishing, and the year, the Nomination and Governance secretary to the Science Committee.
The SET normally meets Committee also reviewed the composition The Science Committee met twice in once a month to consider and decide major of Board Committees in the light of the person in 2012, in Cambridge and London, business issues, or as otherwise required Board changes described above and UK and held five meetings by telephone by business needs.
Typically, it also reviews, recommended to the Board appropriate to review specic business development in advance of submission to the Board, changes, which are described in this or acquisition proposals.
those matters that are to be submitted Annual Report.
to the Board for review and decision.
The Nomination and Governance The Science Committees terms of Committees terms of reference are reference are available on our website, In addition to the CEO, the CFO, the available on our website, astrazeneca.
General Counsel, and the Chief Compliance officer, the SET comprises nine Executive Science Committee US corporate governance Vice-Presidents representing: Innovative The Science Committees core role requirements Medicines small molecules : MedImmune continues to be to provide assurance Our ADSs are traded on the NYSE biologics : Global Medicines Development: to the Board regarding the quality, and, accordingly, we are subject to the North America: Europe: International: Global competitiveness and integrity of the Groups reporting and other requirements of the Portfolio & Product Strategy: Operations & R&D activities by way of: meetings and SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
Information Services: and Human Resources dialogue with our R&D leaders and other Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act & Corporate Affairs.
The Company Secretary scientist employees: visits to our R&D sites requires companies to include in their acts as secretary to the SET.
throughout the world: and review and annual report on Form 20-F led with the assessment of the: SEC a report by management stating its responsibility for establishing internal control 118 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Portfolio Investment Board PIB the Vice-President, Group Finance.
adequacy and effectiveness of the The CEO is responsible for establishing, The Deputy Company Secretary acted Groups risk management and control and chairs, the PIB, a senior-level, as secretary to this Committee.
The framework and the internal controls over cross-functional governance body, which Disclosure Committee meets regularly key business risks, including financial seeks to maximise the value of our internal to assist and inform the decisions of the controls and compliance with laws, and external R&D investments through CEO concerning inside information and regulations and policies.
robust, transparent and well-informed its disclosure.
Periodically, it reviews our GIA seeks to discharge the responsibilities decisions that drive business performance disclosure controls and procedures and set down in its charter by reviewing: and accountability.
its own operation as part of work carried the processes for ensuring that key out to enable management and the Board Specically, the PIB has responsibility for: business risks are effectively managed to assure themselves that appropriate the financial and operational controls Reviewing the R&D portfolio, by processes are operating for our planned that help to ensure the Groups assets conducting an objective and transparent disclosures, such as our quarterly results are properly safeguarded from losses, review of R&D performance, product announcements and scheduled investor including fraud launch prole and alignment with relations events.
the controls that help to ensure the corporate strategy.
The review is also Disclosure of information to auditors an important step in reconrming the reliability and integrity of management The Directors who held ofce at the date R&D three year budget.
information systems of approval of this Annual Report confirm Approving the business plans of the the processes for ensuring compliance that, so far as they are each aware, there Innovative Medicines groups and the with policies and procedures, external is no relevant audit information of which Global Medicines Development demand legislation and regulation.
the Companys auditors are unaware: and forecast, by conrming the allocation each Director has taken all the steps that In addition to fullling its primary remit of of resources across early-stage and he or she ought to have taken as a Director assurance to the Audit Committee, GIA acts late-stage elements of R&D as well to make himself or herself aware of any as a source of constructive advice and best as assessing licensing and acquisition relevant audit information and to establish practice, assisting senior management to opportunities.
that the Companys auditors are aware improve governance, control, compliance Approving late-stage internal and of that information.
Monitoring environmental events that Compliance and Group Internal Audit Other matters could have a major transformational The role of the Global Compliance function Corporate governance statement or disruptive impact on our business.
is to manage and maintain the compliance under the UK Disclosure and programme infrastructure and to help Transparency Rules DTR In addition to the CEO, the PIBs members embed a culture of ethics and integrity The disclosures that full the requirements in 2012 were: the CFO: the President, Global in the Group.
Global Compliance works of a corporate governance statement under R&D: the Executive Vice-President, Global closely with GIA, with whom it provides the DTR can be found in this section and Commercial Operations: the Executive assurance reporting to the Audit Committee.
in other parts of this Annual Report as listed Vice-President, Innovative Medicines: During 2013, the Global Compliance below, each of which is incorporated into the Executive Vice-President, MedImmune: function will continue to focus on ensuring this section by reference: the Executive Vice-President, Global the delivery of an aligned approach to significant holders of the Companys Medicines Development: and the compliance that addresses key risk areas shares contained in the Shareholder Vice-President, Strategic Partnering & across the business.
Further information Information section from page 203. Business Development.
The PIB has a can be found in the Compliance section Articles contained in the Corporate permanent secretary and typically meets from page 47.
Information section on page 208. at around the time of the monthly SET Global Compliance provides direct Amendments to the Articles contained meetings, or as otherwise required by assurance to the Audit Committee on in the Corporate Information section on business needs.
matters concerning compliance issues, page 208.
Disclosure Committee including the results of monitoring and Subsidiaries and principal activities Our disclosure policy provides a framework auditing conducted by Global Compliance The Company is the holding company for the handling and disclosure of inside and an analysis of compliance breaches.
for a group of subsidiaries whose principal information and other information of interest Complementing this, GIA carries out a activities are described in this Annual to shareholders and the investment range of audits that include complianceReport.
Principal subsidiaries and their community.
It also defines the role of the related audits and reviews of the assurance locations are given in the Principal Disclosure Committee.
The members of activities of other Group assurance Subsidiaries section in the Financial the Disclosure Committee in 2012 were: functions.
The results from these activities Statements on page 191. the CEO: the CFO, who chaired the are reported to the Audit Committee.
Disclosure Committee: the President, Global R&D: the General Counsel: the GIA is an independent appraisal function Vice-President, Corporate Affairs: the that derives its authority from the Board Vice-President, Investor Relations: and through the Audit Committee.
Its primary role is to provide reasonable and objective assurance to the Directors regarding the AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 119 Corporate Governance | Corporate Governance Report Branches and countries in which the Going concern accounting basis After making enquiries, the Directors Group conducts business Information on the business environment have a reasonable expectation that the In accordance with the Companies Act AstraZeneca operates in, including the Company and the Group have adequate 2006, we disclose below our subsidiary factors underpinning the industrys future resources to continue in operational companies that have representative or growth prospects, is included in the existence for the foreseeable future.
scientific branches ofces outside the UK: Directors Report.
Details of the product Accordingly, they continue to adopt the portfolio of the Group including patent going concern basis in preparing the AstraZeneca UK Limited: Albania, Algeria expiry dates for key marketed products, Annual Report and Financial Statements.
scientific ofce, Angola, Azerbaijan, our approach to product development and Belarus, Bulgaria, Chile, Costa Rica, Changes in share capital our development pipeline are covered Croatia, Cuba, Georgia, Ghana scientific Changes in the Companys Ordinary in detail with additional information by ofce, Ireland, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Share capital during 2012, including details Therapy Area in the Directors Report.
Macedonia, Nigeria, Romania, Russia, of the allotment of new shares under Saudi Arabia scientific ofce, Serbia and The financial position of the Group, its the Companys share plans, are given in Montenegro, Slovenia, Syria and Ukraine.
cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing Note 20 to the Financial Statements from AstraZeneca AB: Egypt scientific ofce, facilities are described in the Financial page 172.
Slovakia and the United Arab Emirates.
In addition, Note 23 Directors shareholdings AstraZeneca Singapore Pte Limited: to the Financial Statements from page 175 The Articles require each Director to be Vietnam.
includes the Groups objectives, policies the beneficial owner of Ordinary Shares and processes for managing its capital, Distributions to shareholders and in the Company with an aggregate nominal its financial risk management objectives, dividends for 2012 value of $125 which currently represents at details of its financial instruments and Our distribution policy comprises both least 500 shares because each Ordinary hedging activities and its exposures to a regular cash dividend and a share Share has a nominal value of $0.25.
Such credit, market and liquidity risk.
Further repurchase component, further details holding must be obtained within two months details of the Groups cash balances of which are set out in the Financial Review of the date of the Directors appointment.
and borrowings are included in Notes 13 on page 94 and Notes 20 and 21 to the At 31 December 2012, all of the Directors and 14 to the Financial Statements from Financial Statements on page 173. complied with this requirement and full page 164. details of each Directors interests in shares The Companys dividends for 2012 of The Group has considerable financial of the Company are set out in the Directors $2.80 178.6 pence, SEK 18.34 per resources available.
As at 31 December interests in shares section from page Ordinary Share amount to, in aggregate, 2012, the Group had $9.8 billion in financial 134.
Information about the shareholding a total dividend payment to shareholders resources cash balances of $7.7 billion expectations of the Remuneration of $3,665 million.
Two of our employee and undrawn committed bank facilities of Committee in respect of Executive share trusts, AstraZeneca Share Trust $3 billion which are available until April 2017, Directors and SET members and the Limited and AstraZeneca Quest Limited, with only $0.9 billion of debt due within Board in respect of Non-Executive waived their right to a dividend on the one year.
The Groups revenues are largely Directors is also set out in the Directors Ordinary Shares that they hold and derived from sales of products which Remuneration Report from page 122. instead received a nominal dividend.
are covered by patents which provide Political donations A shareholders resolution was passed at a relatively high level of resilience and Neither the Company nor its subsidiaries the 2012 AGM authorising the Company predictability to cash inows, although made any EU political donations or incurred to purchase its own shares.
Pursuant our revenue is expected to continue any EU political expenditure in 2012 and to this resolution, the Company repurchased to be signicantly impacted by the expiry they do not intend to do so in the future and subsequently cancelled 57.8 million of patents over the medium term.
in respect of which shareholder authority Ordinary Shares with a nominal value In addition, recent government price is required, or for which disclosure in of $0.25 each, at an aggregate cost of interventions in response to budgetary this Annual Report is required, under $2,635 million, representing 4.6% of the constraints are expected to continue to the Companies Act 2006.
However, to closing total issued share capital of the adversely affect revenues in many of our enable the Company and its subsidiaries Company.
The Company suspended its mature markets.
However, we anticipate new to continue to support interest groups share repurchase programme on 1 October revenue streams from both recently launched or lobbying organisations concerned as a prudent step to maintain exibility medicines and products in development, with the review of government policy or while the Board and the newly-appointed and the Group has a wide diversity of law reform without inadvertently breaching CEO completed the Companys annual customers and suppliers across different the Companies Act 2006, which defines strategy update.
Consequently, the political donations and other political Directors believe that, overall, the Group During our share repurchase programmes expenditure in broad terms, a resolution is well placed to manage its business that operated between 1999 and will be put to shareholders at the 2013 risks successfully despite the current September 2012, a total of 615.2 million AGM, similar to that passed at the 2012 uncertain economic outlook.
Ordinary Shares were repurchased, and subsequently cancelled, at an average price of 2777 pence per share for a consideration, including expenses, of $29,352 million.
120 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information AGM, to authorise the Company and its Creditor payment policy any non-audit work in respect of which it subsidiaries to: Our policy is to agree appropriate payment might, in the future, be required to express terms with all suppliers when agreeing an audit opinion.
As explained more fully make donations to political parties to the terms of each transaction, to ensure in the Audit Committee section from page or independent election candidates that those suppliers are made aware 115, the Audit Committee has established make donations to political organisations of the terms of payment and, subject pre-approval policies and procedures for other than political parties to their compliance, to abide by the terms audit and non-audit work permitted to be incur political expenditure, up to an of payment.
A considerable part of the carried out by the external auditor and has aggregate limit of $250,000.
trade creditors balance continues to relate carefully monitored the objectivity and Corporate political contributions in the to the Merck account in the US, which has independence of the external auditor US are permitted in dened circumstances particularly long contractual payment terms.
throughout 2012. under the First Amendment of the US On 26 June 2012, AstraZeneca and Merck Directors Report Constitution and are subject to both federal agreed to amend certain provisions of their The Directors Report, which has been and state laws and regulations.
In 2012, the ongoing Agreements with respect to the prepared in accordance with the Groups US legal entities made contributions Second Option, as detailed in Note 9 to requirements of the Companies Act 2006, amounting in aggregate to $1,759,450 the Financial Statements from page 161. comprises the following sections: 2011: $1,099,450 to national political Our trade creditors balance excluding organisations, state-level political party S trategy payments to Merck and other items not committees and to campaign committees Performance directly related to trade purchases in the of various state candidates.
No corporate Corporate Governance US is our most accurate calculation of donations were made at the federal level Development Pipeline balances owed by the Companys and all contributions were made only where Shareholder Information subsidiaries to trade creditors at the allowed by US federal and state law.
We Corporate Information balance sheet date.
This was equivalent publicly disclose details of our corporate to 56 days average purchases 2011: and has been signed on behalf of the Board.
US political contributions, which can be 43 days: 2010: 57 days.
com responsibility A C N Kemp we have also disclosed the total gure transparency.
The annual corporate Company Secretary including any trade balances payable contributions budget is reviewed and 31 January 2013 to Merck.
By including these items, approved by the US General Counsel, the an average of 58 days is obtained US Vice-President, Corporate Affairs and 2011: 50 days: 2010: 62 days.
the President of our US business to ensure The Company has no external trade robust governance and oversight.
citizens or individuals holding valid green cards exercised decision making over Annual General Meeting the contributions and the funds were not The Companys AGM will be held on provided or reimbursed by any non-US legal 25 April 2013.
The meeting place will be entity.
Such contributions do not constitute in London, UK.
A Notice of AGM will be sent political donations or political expenditure for to all registered holders of Ordinary Shares the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and, where requested, to the beneficial and were made without any involvement holders of shares.
of persons or entities outside the US.
External auditor significant agreements A resolution will be proposed at the AGM on 25 April 2013 for the re-appointment There are no significant agreements to of KPMG as auditor of the Company.
which the Company is a party that take The external auditor has undertaken various effect, alter or terminate on a change of non-audit work for us during 2012.
More control of the Company following a takeover information about this work and the audit bid.
There are no persons with whom we and non-audit fees that we have paid have contractual or other arrangements, are set out in Note 27 to the Financial who are deemed by the Directors to be Statements on page 190.
The external essential to our business.
auditor is not engaged by us to carry out Use of financial instruments The Notes to the Financial Statements, including Note 23 from page 175, include further information on our use of financial instruments.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 121
