Additional disclosures On 21 April 2011, BP announced an agreement with natural resource On 23 March 2005, an explosion and fire occurred at the Texas City trustees for the US and five Gulf Coast states, providing for up to $1 billion refinery.
Fifteen workers died in the incident and many others were to be spent on early restoration projects to address natural resource injured.
BP Products has resolved all civil injury claims and all civil and injuries resulting from the Incident.
Funding for these projects will come criminal governmental claims arising from the March 2005 incident.
In March 2007, the US Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board A claim was commenced against BP by a group of claimants on 26 July CSB issued a report on the incident.
The report contained 2012 in Ecuador.
The majority of the claimants represent local NGOs.
The recommendations to the Texas City refinery and to the board of directors claim alleges that through the Incident and BPs response to it, BP of BP.
To date, CSB has accepted as satisfactorily addressed the majority violated the rights of nature.
The claim is not monetary but rather seeks of BPs responses to its recommendations.
BP and the CSB are injunctive relief.
Two previous claims on identical grounds were previously continuing to discuss the remaining open recommendations with the dismissed at an early stage by the Ecuadorian courts.
On 3 December objective of the CSB agreeing to accept these as satisfactorily addressed 2012, the Ecuadorian court of first instance dismissed the claim.
7 December 2012, the claimants filed a timely notice of appeal to the On 29 October 2009, the US Occupational Safety and Health Ecuadorian court of second instance.
On 28 February 2013, the court Administration OSHA issued citations to the Texas City refinery related affirmed the dismissal by the lower court.
to the Process Safety Management PSM Standard.
On 12 July 2012, BPs potential liabilities resulting from threatened, pending and potential OSHA and BP resolved 409 of the 439 citations.
The agreement required future claims, lawsuits and enforcement actions relating to the Incident, that BP pay a civil penalty of $13,027,000 and that BP abate the alleged together with the potential cost of implementing remedies sought in the violations by 31 December 2012.
BP completed these requirements and various proceedings, cannot be fully estimated at this time but they have the agreement has terminated.
The settlement excluded 30 citations for had and are expected to have a material adverse impact on the groups which BP and OSHA could not reach agreement.
However, the parties business, competitive position, cash flows, prospects, liquidity, agreed that BPs penalty liability will not exceed $1 million if those shareholder returns and or implementation of its strategic agenda, citations are resolved through litigation.
Additional efforts will be made in particularly in the US.
These potential liabilities may continue to have a the future to resolve these citations.
material adverse effect on the groups results and financial condition.
See On 8 March 2010, OSHA issued 65 citations to BP Products and BPFinancial statements Note 2 on page 194 for information regarding the Husky for alleged violations of the PSM Standard at the Toledo refinery, financial impact of the Incident.
with penalties of approximately $3 million.
These citations resulted from an inspection conducted pursuant to OSHAs Petroleum Refinery Process Pending investigations and reports relating to Safety Management National Emphasis Program.
Both BP Products and the Deepwater Horizon oil spill BP-Husky contested the citations, and a trial of 42 citations was The US Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board CSB is completed in June 2012 before an Administrative Law Judge from the conducting an investigation of the Incident that is focused on the OSH Review Commission.
explosions and fire, and not the resulting oil spill or response efforts.
As A flaring event occurred at the Texas City refinery in April and May 2010. part of this effort, on 24 July 2012, the CSB conducted a hearing at which This flaring event is the subject of civil lawsuit claims for personal injury it released its preliminary findings on, among other things, the use of and, in some cases, property damage by roughly 50,000 individuals.
These safety indicators by industry including BP and Transocean and lawsuit claims have been consolidated in a Texas multi-district litigation government regulators in offshore operations prior to the accident.
The proceeding in Galveston, Texas.
A trial of six selected plaintiffs is CSB found that BP and other offshore industry members have placed too scheduled for trial in September 2013.
Also, this flaring event, and other great an emphasis on personal safety rather than process safety overall.
refinery emissions from December 2008 through 2010, is the subject of a The CSB has indicated that it plans to issue its final report in April 2013. purported class action, on behalf of some local residential property The CSB will seek to recommend improvements to BP and industry owners, filed in US federal district court in Galveston.
The purported class practices and to regulatory programmes to prevent recurrence and plaintiffs claim that refinery emissions caused their residential properties mitigate potential consequences.
No class has been certified, and no trial date has been set.
A Committee of the National Academy of Engineering National Research In addition, the flares involved in this event are the subject of a federal Council is looking at the methodologies available for assessing spill government enforcement action.
impacts on ecosystem services in the Gulf of Mexico, with a final report In March and August 2006, oil leaked from oil transit pipelines operated by expected in the first or second quarter of 2013.
BP Exploration Alaska Inc. BPXA at the Prudhoe Bay unit on the North Slope of Alaska.
On 12 May 2008, a BP p. l. c. shareholder filed a Other legal proceedings consolidated complaint alleging violations of federal securities law on The US Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC and the US behalf of a putative class of BP p. l. c. shareholders against BP p. l. c. BPXA, Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC are currently BP America, and four officers of the companies, based on alleged investigating several BP entities regarding trading in the next-day natural misrepresentations concerning the integrity of the Prudhoe Bay pipeline gas market at Houston Ship Channel during September, October and before its shutdown on 6 August 2006.
On 8 February 2010, the Ninth November 2008.
The FERC Office of Enforcement staff notified BP on Circuit Court of Appeals accepted BPs appeal from a decision of the 12 November 2010 of their preliminary conclusions relating to alleged lower court granting in part and denying in part BPs motion to dismiss the market manipulation in violation of 18 C. F. R. Sec.
On 29 June 2011, the Ninth Circuit ruled in BPs favour that the 2010, CFTC Enforcement staff also provided BP with a notice of intent to filing of a trust related agreement with the SEC containing contractual recommend charges based on the same conduct alleging that BP obligations on the part of BP was not a misrepresentation which violated engaged in attempted market manipulation in violation of Section 6 c, federal securities laws.
The BP p. l. c. shareholder filed an amended 6 d, and 9 a 2 of the Commodity Exchange Act.
On 23 December 2010, complaint, in response to which BP filed a new motion to dismiss, which BP submitted responses to the FERC and CFTC November 2010 notices was granted on 14 March 2012.
The plaintiff has appealed the courts providing a detailed response that it did not engage in any inappropriate or dismissal of the case, and the appeal is pending.
On 31 March 2009, the unlawful activity.
On 28 July 2011, the FERC staff issued a Notice of State of Alaska filed a complaint seeking civil penalties and damages Alleged Violations stating that it had preliminarily determined that several relating to these events.
The complaint alleges that the two releases and BP entities fraudulently traded physical natural gas in the Houston Ship BPXAs corrosion management practices violated various statutory, Channel and Katy markets and trading points to increase the value of their contractual and common law duties to the State, resulting in penalty financial swing spread positions.
Other investigations into BPs trading liability, damages for lost royalties and taxes, and liability for punitive activities continue to be conducted from time to time.
In December 2011, the State of Alaska and BPXA entered into a Dispute Resolution Agreement concerning this matter that resulted in arbitration of the amount of the States lost royalty income and payment by BPXA of the additional amount of $10 million on account of other Additional disclosures 169 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
