AGM Shareholder engagement BPs shareholder base is geographically diverse and a webcast and an The company operates an active programme of investor dialogue, advance electronic and paper voting service is offered to make the including regular investor meetings, which provides an opportunity to meeting accessible to those who cannot attend in person.
communicate with shareholders and analysts and to understand their The voting levels for the 2012 AGM saw an increase over the previous views on the companys performance and strategy.
The board receives year to 63.2% versus 60.6% in 2011.
A webcast, speeches and feedback on investor views through results of the investor audit and presentations from the AGM are available on bp.
com agm after the reports from management and directors who have had shareholder meeting, together with the outcome of voting on each resolution.
At the interaction over the year.
2012 AGM all resolutions were passed with votes ranging from 88.2%- Shareholder engagement cycle 2012 99.8%.
As in previous years, the board received a report after the AGM giving a breakdown of the vote and feedback from large shareholders on January BP 2030 Energy Outlook presentation their voting decisions for the meeting.
February 4Q results and strategy presentation Geographical distribution of share ownership Investor roadshows with executive a as at 31 December 2012 % management 5 March UKSA private shareholder meeting 1 1.
UK 36% Chairman and committee chairs meeting 4 2.
US 38% SRI roadshow on BP Sustainability Review 3.
Rest of Europe 14% Plaintiffs Steering Committee settlement 4.
Rest of World 11% 3 b investor call 5.
Miscellaneous 1% April Annual General Meeting 2 May 1Q results June Launch of BP Statistical Review of World Energy a Represents BPs best efforts to determine ownership of the groups shares, based on analysis of the year-end share register.
July 2Q results b Miscellaneous represents unidentified shares that are awaiting conrmation of the identity of the holder and the nature of their interest in the shares following enquiries made under September Oil and gas conferences Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
October Group SRI meeting Engagement on remuneration.
November 3Q results and investor update Oil sands webinar DoJ resolution investor call December Upstream investor day Institutional investors Executive directors and senior management regularly meet with institutional investors through roadshow, group and one-to-one meetings.
Events for socially responsible investors SRI are held throughout the year, including a group meeting which discussed managing safety and operational risk in BP, people capability, managing potential risk in wells and the companys progress on the Bly Report recommendations.
Whilst held in the UK, this meeting was webcast for US and overseas investors.
During the year the chairman, senior independent director and chairs of the SEEA and remuneration committees held one-to-one meetings with institutional investors to discuss strategy, the boards view on the companys performance, governance, operational practices and the groups remuneration structure.
An annual investor event was held in March 2012 with the chairman and chairs of the board committees.
This meeting enables BPs largest shareholders to discuss the work of the board and its committees, and for non-executive directors to engage in dialogue with investors.
It is intended that a similar event is held in March 2013.
Materials from investor presentations, including information on the work of the board and its committees can be downloaded at bp.
Private investors An event for private investors was held in 2012, organized in conjunction with the UK Shareholders Association UKSA.
A group of 40 private shareholders listened to presentations from the chairman and head of investor relations on BPs annual results, strategy and the work of the board.
The event enabled shareholders to ask questions on the companys activities and for the company to receive direct private shareholder feedback.
The event will be repeated in 2013.
BPs lost shareholder programme was continued over the year.
This returns shares and unclaimed dividends to shareholders who have failed to keep their contact details up to date.
The amount of unclaimed dividends reunited in 2012 was approximately 750,000.
116 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
