Committee evaluation I believe the committee maintains a rigorous approach to its work, For its 2012 evaluation, the SEEAC again used a questionnaire providing effective oversight on behalf of the board.
The report below administered by external consultants to examine the committees summarizes the activities of the committee in 2012.
The committee is performance and effectiveness.
The committee responded to the same well prepared to conduct its tasks over the coming year.
questions used in 2011 so that any change trends could be discerned.
The Ian Davis topics covered included the balance of skills and experience among its Committee chair membership, quality and timeliness of information the committee receives, the level of challenge between committee members and Committee members management and how well the committee communicates its activities Ian Davis committee chair and findings to the board.
Paul Anderson The evaluation results were positive.
In particular the committee Admiral Frank Bowman joined the committee 3 February 2012 members considered that the committee possessed the right mix of skills Sir William Castell retired from the committee 12 April 2012 and background, had appropriate support and had received open and George David transparent briengs from management.
The committee is keen to maintain and, if possible, increase the number of eld trips it makes and to The Gulf of Mexico committee has cross-membership with both the SEEAC and the audit committee, helping to inform discussions of matters continue constructive and challenging engagement with management.
Membership of the Gulf of Mexico committee changed during 2012 and now includes three US-based Gulf of Mexico committee non-executive directors.
All meetings during the course of the year have been attended by Lamar McKay, president and CEO of the GCRO in 2012, and Jack Lynch, chief counsel to the GCRO.
The chairman, group chief executive and group general counsel join meetings whenever possible.
Meetings are on occasion joined by others including members of the leadership team of the GCRO, as well as internal and external legal counsel.
Committee role and structure The purpose of the committee is to provide non-executive oversight of the GCRO: to oversee the management and mitigation of legal and license-to-operate risks arising out of the Deepwater Horizon accident and the subsequent response: and to support efforts to rebuild trust in BP and BPs reputation, with a particular focus on the US.
The committees work is fully integrated with that of the board on strategy, reputation and financial planning.
The committee chairman provides verbal reports at board meetings, and all directors are invited, from time to time, to attend and observe committee meetings.
Meeting minutes are sent to The committee oversaw the resolution of the board for review, and the board retains ultimate accountability for numerous matters in the past year: each was oversight of the groups response to the Deepwater Horizon accident.
determined to be in the best interests of the The committee met 23 times in 2012, frequently by telephone and sometimes at very short notice.
During the course of the year the committee focused on the following tasks: t Oversee and receive regular reports on work undertaken to complete the response and mitigate the effects of the oil spill in the Gulf of Chairmans introduction Mexico area.
The Gulf of Mexico committee met 23 times in 2012, with much of our t Oversee the legal strategy for litigation, investigations and focus on legal topics.
The committee oversaw the resolution of numerous administrative processes involving the group arising from the accident matters in the past year: each was determined to be in the best interests or its aftermath.
of the company and its shareholders and consistent with the boards t Oversee the strategy for resolving claims, recognizing the overall strategy of reducing key uncertainties.
independent role of first the Gulf Coast Claims Facility GCCF and more recently the Deepwater Horizon Court Supervised Settlement Settlements have been approved with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee, Program DHCSSP.
with regard to private economic and property damages claims, as well as exposure-based medical claims stemming from the Deepwater Horizon t Oversee GCROs plans for expenditures and investments on major accident: and the company reached resolutions with the Department of projects or matters beyond those included within the above Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The committee will referenced independent claims administration processes.
be overseeing the companys compliance with government settlement t Oversee managements strategy and actions to restore the groups agreements arising out of the Deepwater Horizon accident, in coreputation in the US.
ordination with the other committees and the board as appropriate.
Committee processes The committee has overseen the companys strategy for resolving claims not covered by the above settlements: its efforts to mitigate and monitor Information and advice the effects of the spill: and actions to restore the groups reputation, The committee receives its information from the leadership of the GCRO, particularly in the US.
We have received regular briengs on the companys internal personnel and external advisers.
Privileged briengs are provided preparations for trial on the various civil matters, including the multi-district by the group general counsel and chief counsel to the GCRO, along with litigation in New Orleans.
internal and external counsel who often participate in committee meetings.
The committee received reports from internal audit on its Briengs on a broad range of topics have been provided to the committee reviews of the GCRO and related activities.
The audit committee remains by the leadership and counsel of the Gulf Coast Restoration Organization the primary forum for the monitoring of financial risk and audit matters GCRO.
External counsel have also been invited to join some meetings.
Safety risks relating to the GCROs activities are The high frequency of our interactions has facilitated committee monitored by the SEEAC.
members understanding of complex issues and interdependencies.
124 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
