claimants may seek punitive damages under general maritime law.
The Legalproceedings judge did not, however, lift an earlier stay on the underlying individual complaints raising those claims or otherwise apply his dismissal of the master complaint to those individual complaints.
On 30 September 2011, Proceedings relating to the Deepwater Horizon the judge in the federal multi-district litigation proceeding in New Orleans oil spill granted in part BPs motion to dismiss a master complaint asserting BP p. l. c. BP Exploration & Production Inc. BPXP and various other BP personal injury claims on behalf of persons exposed to crude oil or entities collectively referred to as BP are among the companies named as chemical dispersants, dismissing plaintiffs state law claims, claims by defendants in approximately 750 civil lawsuits resulting from the 20 April seamen for punitive damages, claims for medical monitoring damages by 2010 explosions and fire on the semi-submersible rig Deepwater Horizon asymptomatic plaintiffs, claims for battery and nuisance under maritime and resulting oil spill the Incident and further actions are likely to be law, and claims alleging negligence per se.
As with his other rulings on brought.
BPXP is lease operator of Mississippi Canyon, Block 252 in the Gulf motions to dismiss master complaints, the judge did not lift an earlier stay of Mexico Macondo, where the Deepwater Horizon was deployed at the on the underlying individual complaints raising those claims or otherwise time of the Incident.
The other working interest owners at the time of the apply his dismissal of the master complaint to those individual complaints.
Incident were Anadarko Petroleum Company Anadarko and MOEX Shareholder derivative lawsuits related to the Incident have been filed in Offshore 2007 LLC MOEX.
The Deepwater Horizon, which was owned US federal and state courts against various current and former officers and and operated by certain affiliates of Transocean Ltd. Transocean, sank on directors of BP alleging, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, 22 April 2010.
The pending lawsuits and or claims arising from the Incident gross mismanagement, abuse of control and waste of corporate assets.
have generally been brought in US federal and state courts.
Plaintiffs include On 15 September 2011, the judge in the federal multi-district litigation individuals, corporations, insurers, and governmental entities and many of proceeding in Houston MDL 2185 granted BPs motion to dismiss the the lawsuits purport to be class actions.
The lawsuits assert, among others, consolidated shareholder derivative litigation pending there on the claims for personal injury in connection with the Incident itself and the grounds that the courts of England are the appropriate forum for the response to it, wrongful death, commercial and economic injury, breach of litigation.
On 8 December 2011, a final judgment was entered dismissing contract and violations of statutes.
The lawsuits seek various remedies the shareholder derivative case and, on 3 January 2012, one of the including compensation to injured workers and families of deceased derivative plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to the US Court of Appeals for workers, recovery for commercial losses and property damage, the Fifth Circuit.
On 16 January 2013, the Court of Appeals affirmed compensation for personal injuries and medical monitoring, claims for dismissal of the action.
The plaintiffs in the two remaining state-court environmental damage, remediation costs, claims for unpaid wages, actions, which are pending in Texas and Louisiana, have agreed to be injunctive and declaratory relief, treble damages and punitive damages.
bound by the outcome of the federal case.
Purported classes of claimants include residents of the states of Louisiana, On 13 February 2012, the judge in the federal multi-district litigation Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Texas, Tennessee, Kentucky, Georgia and proceeding in Houston issued two decisions on the defendants motions to South Carolina: property owners and rental agents, fishermen and persons dismiss the two consolidated securities fraud complaints filed on behalf of dependent on the fishing industry, charter boat owners and deck hands, purported classes of BP ordinary shareholders and ADS holders.
In those marina owners, gasoline distributors, shipping interests, restaurant and hotel decisions the court dismissed all of the claims of the ordinary shareholders, owners, cruise lines and others who are property and or business owners dismissed the claims of the lead class of ADS holders against most of the alleged to have suffered economic loss: and response workers and individual defendants while holding that a subset of the claims against two residents claiming injuries due to exposure to the components of oil and or individual defendants and the corporate defendants could proceed, and chemical dispersants.
Among other claims arising from the spill response dismissed all of the claims of a smaller purported subclass with leave to reefforts, lawsuits have been filed claiming that additional payments are due plead in 20 days.
On 2 April 2012, plaintiffs in the lead class and subclass by BP under certain Master Vessel Charter Agreements entered into in the filed an amended consolidated complaint with claims based on 1 the 12 course of the Vessels of Opportunity Program implemented as part of the alleged misstatements that the court held were actionable in its February response to the Incident.
Purported class action and individual lawsuits have 2012 order on BPs motion to dismiss the earlier complaints: and 2 13 also been filed in US state and federal courts, as well as one suit in Canada, alleged misstatements concerning BPs operating management system that against BP entities and or various current and former officers and directors the judge either rejected with leave to re-plead or did not address in his alleging, among other things, shareholder derivative claims, securities fraud February decisions.
On 2 May 2012, defendants moved to dismiss the claims, violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ERISA claims based on the 13 statements in the amended complaint that the judge and contractual and quasi-contractual claims related to the cancellation of did not already rule are actionable.
On 6 February 2013, the judge granted in the dividend on 16 June 2010.
In August 2010, many of the lawsuits part this motion to dismiss, rejecting plaintiffs claims based on 10 of the 17 pending in federal court were consolidated by the Federal Judicial Panel on statements at issue in the motion and also dismissing all claims against Multi-district Litigation into two multi-district litigation proceedings, one in Andrew Inglis.
On 5 March 2013, the court announced that a trial date has federal court in Houston for the securities, derivative, ERISA and dividend been scheduled for 25 August 2014. cases and another in federal court in New Orleans for the remaining cases.
In April and May 2012, six new cases three of which were consolidated into BP has had discussions with the DoJ regarding possible settlements of one action were filed in state and federal courts by one or more state, the claims by the DoJ, other federal agencies and certain States, in whole county or municipal pension funds against BP entities and several current or in part, and remains open to further discussions but there are a number and former officers and directors seeking damages for alleged losses those of significant issues and considerable uncertainty as to whether any funds suffered because of their purchases of BP ordinary shares and, in two agreement could ultimately be reached.
The funds assert various state law and federal law claims.
All On 25 February 2013, the first phase of a Trial of Liability, Limitation, of the cases have been transferred to the judge in the federal multi-district Exoneration and Fault Allocation commenced in the federal multi-district litigation proceeding in Houston.
In May and June, plaintiffs in the two cases litigation proceeding in New Orleans.
For further information, see that were filed in state court moved to send those cases back to state court, page 164 below.
which was denied on 3 October 2012.
On 4 January 2013, the judge denied In addition, BP has been named in several lawsuits alleging claims under the a motion to certify that decision for immediate appeal.
On 21 December Racketeer-Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act RICO.
On 15 July 2012, defendants filed motions to dismiss these cases.
From July 2012 to 2011, the judge granted BPs motion to dismiss a master complaint raising January 2013, nine additional cases were filed in Texas state and federal RICO claims against BP.
The courts order dismissed the claims of the courts four of which were consolidated into one action by pension or plaintiffs in four RICO cases encompassed by the master complaint.
investment funds against BP entities and current and former officers, asserting Texas state law claims and seeking damages for alleged losses On 26 August 2011, the judge in the federal multi-district litigation that those funds suffered because of their purchases of BP ordinary shares.
proceeding in New Orleans granted in part BPs motion to dismiss a All of the cases have been transferred to federal court in Houston, and it is master complaint raising claims for economic loss by private plaintiffs, anticipated that they will be handled by the same judge presiding over the dismissing plaintiffs state law claims and limiting the types of maritime multi-district litigation proceeding.
law claims plaintiffs may pursue, but also held that certain classes of 162 Additional disclosures BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
