Committee reports Board and committee attendance Remuneration Gulf of Mexico Nomination Chairmans Board Audit committee SEEAC committee committee committee committee a b ab ab ab ab ab ab Non-executive directors c c Carl-Henric Svanberg 19 19 4 48 8 c Paul Anderson 19 19 6623192288 Admiral Frank Bowman 19 19 6 6 19 18 8 8 c Antony Burgmans 19 17 6 6 554488 Cynthia Carroll 19 15 6 4 4 3 8 5 Sir William Castell 3 2 2 2 12 10 1 1 2 2 George David 19 19 11 11 5 5 23 22 8 8 c Ian Davis 19 18 1 1 5 5 23 23 4 4 8 8 Professor Dame Ann Dowling 18 18 5 5 3 3 6 6 c Brendan Nelson 19 18 11 11 2 2 8 8 Phuthuma Nhleko 19 17 11 10 8 8 Andrew Shilston 18 15 10 8 6 6 Executive directors Bob Dudley 19 19 Iain Conn 19 18 Dr Brian Gilvary 19 18 Dr Byron Grote 19 19 a Total number of meetings the director was eligible to attend.
b Total number of meetings the director did attend.
The attendance of certain directors was adversely affected by changes to BPs rhythm of board meetings, resulting in clashes with directors other executive board commitments.
of group-level risk allocated to the committee for oversight, namely Audit committee trading and treasury, cyber security and compliance with laws and business regulations including bribery and corruption, money laundering, competition and anti-trust and international trade regulations.
We have also undertaken reviews on key aspects of BPs financial reporting processes, including the assumptions and methodology regarding provisions for litigation, environmental remediation and decommissioning.
Other activities in 2012 have included monitoring major project delivery and effectiveness of investment and tracking the progress of implementing BPs finance warehouse programme.
The committee places value on discussing issues directly with management and operational leadership, as well as seeing first-hand the groups risk and control processes in practice.
During the year, I have attended visits to the companys fracking operations, a paraxylene manufacturing facility in Texas and the Bunceeld terminal in the UK.
In a challenging economic and political climate for business, the committees work and the companys audit, assurance and compliance frameworks have enabled BP to maintain the integrity of the groups financial and internal controls and the identication and mitigation of risk in The committee places value on discussing response to these uncertainties.
The committee has an excellent mix of issues directly with management and operational skills and expertise in commercial, audit and financial matters and is well prepared to face the forthcoming year.
leadership, as well as seeing first-hand the Brendan Nelson groups risk and control processes in practice.
Committee chair Committee members Chairmans introduction Brendan Nelson committee chair George David During the year the committee has maintained focus on the review and Ian Davis retired from the committee on 3 February 2012 challenge of BPs financial assessment of its responsibilities arising from Phuthuma Nhleko the Deepwater Horizon accident.
We have continued to operate a Andrew Shilston joined the committee 3 February 2012 delineated model between the boards three monitoring committees of audit, SEEA and Gulf of Mexico and have found our respective areas of The audit committee is composed of independent, non-executive oversight to be effective in informing the boards view as to the nature of directors selected to provide a wide range of financial, international and the uncertainties facing the company and context for ongoing litigation commercial expertise appropriate to full the committees duties.
Brendan Nelson is chair of the audit committee.
Formerly vice chairman of In addition to this focus, the committee has ensured that the cycle of its KPMG, he is chairman of the group audit committee of The Royal Bank of normal agenda is maintained.
During the year we have reviewed the areas Scotland Group plc, deputy president of the Institute of Chartered 120 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Corporate governance Accountants of Scotland and a director of the Financial Skills Partnership.
policies and judgements to these documents, including key assumptions The board is satisfied that Brendan Nelson is the audit committee regarding provisions for litigation, environmental remediation and member with recent and relevant financial experience as outlined in the decommissioning.
The committee held a deep review of the impairment UK Corporate Governance Code.
It considers that the committee as a testing process, methodology and the pricing assumptions that were utilized.
whole has an appropriate and experienced blend of commercial, financial In considering the robustness of the valuations, the committee referred to and audit expertise to assess the issues it is required to address.
The analysis undertaken by the external auditors.
The committee also reviewed board also determined that the audit committee meets the independence the companys methodology underpinning its disclosures relating to oil and criteria provisions of Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities Exchange Act of gas reserves.
1934 and that Brendan Nelson may be regarded as an audit committee Monitoring business risk financial expert as dened in Item 16A of Form 20-F.
The board periodically reviews the companys group risks and allocates monitoring of their management and or mitigation to itself or its committees.
Committee role and structure The group risks allocated to the audit committee for 2012 included risks The role and responsibilities of the audit committee are set out in the associated with treasury and trading, digital security and compliance with appendix of BPs board governance principles which is available at business regulations.
For 2013, the board has agreed that the committee will bp.
This includes responsibility for reviewing the maintain monitoring of these same group risks.
effectiveness of the groups financial reporting, internal control policies and During the year, the committee undertook functional reviews of information procedures for the identication, assessment and reporting of risk.
The technology and services, integrated supply and trading and the governance committee also monitors the integrity of the groups disclosure documents, of major project investment.
It examined the recommendations from an keeps the relationship with the external auditors under review including the external review of controls in the North American gas and power trading policy on non-audit services and monitors the effectiveness of the internal business and tracked the progress of their close-out over the year.
committee also reviewed the lessons learned from the companys The committee met 11 times in 2012 including three joint meetings with the investment programme to upgrade the Whiting renery.
The chairs and secretaries of the audit and SEEA committees have Reports on the work of the group financial risk committee the executiveworked together to ensure their respective agendas neither duplicate nor level committee that provides assurance on the management of BPs omit coverage of key risk areas.
financial risk were provided during the year by the chief financial officer.
Each audit committee meeting is attended by the group chief financial Internal control, audit and risk management officer, the group controller, the general auditor head of internal audit and The forward agenda for the audit committee contains standing items on the chief accounting officer.
The lead partner of our external auditors is also internal control these include quarterly reports of internal audit findings, present.
internal control deficiencies in financial reporting, and an annual assessment The committee also holds separate private sessions during the year with the of BPs enterprise level controls.
external auditor, the general auditor and the group ethics and compliance The committee holds an annual joint meeting at the start of each year with officer.
These sessions are held without the presence of executive the SEEAC to review the companys risk management and internal control management.
At this meeting, the committees review the general auditors report on internal control and risk management systems for the previous Committee processes year, with the general auditor outlining his teams findings and Information and advice managements actions to remedy significant issues identied, including the Information and reports for the committee are received from functional and outcome of work undertaken by the safety and operational risk audit team business managers and from external sources.
Like our board and other and the groups financial control team.
committees, the audit committee can access independent advice and counsel when needed on an unrestricted basis.
During 2012, external A further joint meeting between the two committees was held at the end of the year to review the refreshed description of the companys system of specialist legal advice in relation to corporate reporting was provided to the committee by Sullivan & Cromwell LLP.
As part of its annual evaluation, the internal control which was subsequently communicated to employees in early 2013. committee reviews the adequacy of reliable and timely information from management that enables it to full its responsibilities.
External auditors Training and induction In 2012 the audit committee held two private meetings with the external auditors without management being present.
In addition, the chair of the The committee received technical updates from the chief accounting officer on developments in financial reporting and accounting policy.
In addition, the audit committee met privately with the external auditors before each audit committee.
external auditors provided their survey on global trends in fraud and a brieng on regulatory developments impacting audit committees as a learning A new lead audit partner is appointed every five years and other senior audit session.
staff are rotated every seven years.
No partners or senior staff from Ernst & Young who are connected with the BP audit may transfer to the group.
Induction programmes are provided for new members and are tailored around their roles on the audit committee.
During 2012 Andrew Shilston During the year the committee approved the appointment of a new lead partner from Ernst & Young to replace the current partner who reaches five attended induction sessions on tax, trading operations, accounting, financial reporting and controls and the structure of BPs finance function.
Individual years service in early 2013. private sessions with the external and internal auditors were also provided.
Auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded through limiting non-audit services to tax and audit-related work that fall within dened 2012 committee activities categories.
For a list of those categories, the process by which non-audit Gulf of Mexico work is approved when the audit committee concludes that it is in the Whilst the Gulf of Mexico committee has considered the work of the Gulf interests of the company to purchase non-audit work from the external Coast Restoration Organization GCRO and litigation matters, and the SEEAC auditor rather than another supplier, see the section on Principal has reviewed the companys implementation of the recommendations of the accountants fees and services page 149.
Non-audit work by Ernst & Young Bly Report, the audit committees focus has been on financial reporting and is subject to the audit committees pre-approval policy.
The committee has reviewed each quarter the provisions and undertaken by Ernst & Young and by other accountancy rms is regularly contingencies related to the accident and their disclosure.
Financial reporting The audit committee annually reviews the audit fee structure and terms of The groups quarterly financial reports, the BP Annual Report and engagement.
Fees paid to the external auditor for the year were $54 million, Form 20-F and the BP Summary Review were reviewed by the committee of which 13% was for non-assurance work see Financial statements Note before recommending their publication to the board.
Non-audit or non-audit-related assurance fees were largely unchanged discussed with management how they had applied critical accounting from 2011 levels, at $7 million.
Non-audit or non-audit-related assurance Corporate governance 121 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
