Independence Remuneration committee The committee operates with a high level of independence.
The board The committee was made up of the following independent considers all committee members to be independent see page 112 non-executive directors: with no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the committees decisions.
Antony Burgmans chairman George David The group chief executive is consulted on matters relating to the other Ian Davis executive directors and senior executives who report to him and on Professor Dame Anne Dowling appointed July 2012 matters relating to the performance of the company: neither he nor the Carl-Henric Svanberg normally attends the meetings.
chairman of the board participate in decisions on their own remuneration.
Both the companys head of human resources and head of group reward Tasks attend relevant sections of meetings to ensure appropriate input on The committees tasks are formally set out in the board governance matters related to executives below board level.
principles as follows: Gerrit Aronson, an independent consultant, is the committees t To determine, on behalf of the board, the terms of engagement independent adviser as well as secretary.
He is engaged directly by the and remuneration of the group chief executive and the executive committee and not by executive management.
Advice is also received directors and to report on these to the shareholders.
from the company secretary, who reports to the chairman of the board: t To determine, on behalf of the board, matters of policy over which and from other external advisers appointed by the committee for the company has authority regarding the establishment or operation specialist advice and services on particular remuneration matters.
In of the companys pension schemes of which the executive directors 2012 the committee continued to engage Towers Watson as its principal are members.
external adviser, primarily for market information.
Freshelds Bruckhaus t To nominate, on behalf of the board, any trustees or directors Deringer LLP provided legal advice on specic matters to the committee.
of corporate trustees of such schemes.
Both rms provide other advice in their respective areas to the group.
The t To review and approve the policies and actions being applied by independence of the advice is periodically reviewed by David Jackson, the group chief executive in remunerating senior executives other the company secretary to ensure it meets a high standard.
than executive directors to ensure alignment and proportionality.
Shareholder engagement t To recommend to the board the quantum and structure of remuneration The committee values its dialogue with major shareholders on for the chairman of the board.
During the year the committees chairman and the Committee activities committees independent adviser personally met with key shareholders holding around 20% of the companys shares to ascertain their views and During the year, the committee met five times.
Key discussions and decision items are shown in the table below.
discuss important aspects of the committees policy.
They also met key proxy advisers to similarly engage.
This engagement provides the The committee again undertook an evaluation of its operations using an committee with an important direct perspective of shareholder interests external questionnaire administered by an external consultant.
The and, along with the vote at the AGM on the directors remuneration committee discussed the findings at its January 2013 meeting.
Almost all report, is considered when making decisions.
processes were rated as good to excellent in the report and in discussion the committee identied a number of areas for inclusion in 2013 agendas.
Remuneration committee 2012 meetings Feb May Jul Sep Dec Strategy and policy Directors remuneration report for 2012 AGM Directors remuneration report vote outcome Remuneration policy Committee operation Salary review Executive directors Executive team and leadership group Annual bonus Assess performance Determine bonus for 2011 Review measures for 2013 Agree measures and targets for 2013 Long-term equity plans Assess performance Determine vesting of 2009-2011 plans Agree awards for 2012-2014 plans Review measures for 2013-2015 plans Agree measures and targets for 2013-2015 plans Other items Review chairmans fees Other issues as required 134 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
