Corporate governance Appointment and tenure Independence 1 The chairman and our non-executive directors NEDs serve on the basis 1.
Executive directors 27% of letters of appointment.
Letters of appointment and service contracts 2.
Non-executive directors 73% for our executive directors are available for inspection at the registered ofce of the company.
BP does not place a term limit on directors service 2 as it proposes all directors for annual re-election by shareholders a practice followed since 2004.
Board tenure as at 31 December 2012 3 1 1.
UK US dual citizenship 1 2 Antony Burgmans joined the board in February 2004 and by the 2013 AGM will have served nine years as a director.
The board has asked him to The work of the BP board in 2012 stay on for an additional three years as it believes that his experience as The board meets in person or by teleconference.
Nine meetings were the longest serving board director provides valuable insight and continuity.
scheduled for 2012, but additional board meetings were called principally to discuss legal issues in the US and the sale of BPs share in TNK-BP, The board considers that he remains independent despite his length of meaning the board met 19 times during the year, with nine of these tenure in view of his clarity of thought, his approach in evaluating events meetings taking place by telephone.
These telephone meetings were by of the last few years and the interaction he has demonstrated in his work their nature called at short notice and directors who were unable to attend on the SEEAC, the nomination and remuneration committees and his often due to travel commitments were briefed separately outside the chairmanship of the ad-hoc board committee on Russia.
For director attendance at board and committee meetings, see the table on page 120.
Time commitment and outside appointments Letters of appointment for non-executive directors do not set out a xed The boards agenda for the year has focused on key areas of strategy, time commitment for board duties as it is anticipated that the time assurance, risk and reputation.
required by directors may uctuate depending on demands of the business and other events.
It is however expected that directors will Board activities allocate sufficient time to the company to perform their duties effectively.
This practice was reviewed and confirmed by the nomination committee t 4USBUFHZ EJTDVTTJPOT t $IBOHF NBOBHFNFOU in 2012.
"The chairmans appointment letter sets out the time commitment QSPHSBNNF t ""OOVBM QMBO expected of him."
t 3VTTJB tFHBM VQEBUFT Executive directors are permitted to take up one external board t 5FDIOPMPHZ t. BKPS QSPKFDU EFMJWFSZ BOE appointment, subject to the agreement of the chairman.
"Fees received for t #SB[JM CJPGVFMT FGGFDUJWFOFTT PG JOWFTUNFOU an external appointment may be retained by the executive director and are t PSUI ""NFSJDBO HBT t OUFHSBUFE TVQQMZ BOE USBEJOH reported in the directors remuneration report see page 127. t 4USBUFHZ EFWFMPQNFOU SFWJFX QSPDFTT BOE QMBOOJOH Diversity NFUIPEPMPHZ BP recognizes the importance of diversity, including gender, at all levels t $PNQFUJUPS PVUMPPL of the company as well as the board."
The company is committed to increasing diversity across its operations and has in place a wide range t 8JOE Strategy Assurance of activities to support the development and promotion of talented individuals, including women.
In 2011 the board confirmed its support for the work of Lord Davies and his report on Women on Boards and aimed to increase the number of Risk Reputation women on the board by two by 2013 and aspired to reach his recommendation of 25% female board representation by 2015.
In 2012, the chairman joined the 30% Club a group of chairman who have voluntarily committed to bring more women onto UK corporate boards.
t SPVQ SJTLT SFWJFX In 2012, the nomination committee agreed metrics to monitor the boards t &YUFSOBM SFQVUBUJPO SFQPSUT t $SJTJT BOE SFQVUBUJPO diversity mix and implementation of the boards diversity policy.
These NBOBHFNFOU t &NQMPZFF TVSWFZT 1VMTF metrics include the gender split and geographic background of the BP t MPCBM FDPOPNJD DMJNBUF USBDLFS board and are shown below.
The board also considered diversity as part of the annual evaluation of its performance and effectiveness.
GFFECBDL t 3VTTJB t OWFTUPS BVEJU BOE t %FMJWFSZ PG UIF QPJOU QMBO TIBSFIPMEFS GFFECBDL Board diversity as at 31 December 2012 Gender 1 1.
Male directo 13 rs Corporate governance 113 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
