Corporate governance Dr Mike Daly Executive team Current position As at 6 March 2013 Dr Mike Daly is BPs executive vice president, exploration.
The executive team represents the principal executive leadership of the BP group.
Its membership includes BPs executive directors Bob Dudley, Group responsibilities Iain Conn, Dr Brian Gilvary and Dr Byron Grote whose biographies appear Dr Mike Daly is accountable for the leadership of BPs on pages 105-108 and the senior management listed below.
access, exploration and resource appraisal activities and the long-term replacement of BPs resource base.
Career Mark Bly Dr Daly joined BP Exploration in 1986, working as a technical specialist in Current position structural geology.
In the early 1990s he joined BPs global basin analysis Mark Bly is BPs special advisor to the group chief group that set the direction of BPs exploration strategy.
underpinned BPs exploration and reserves replacement performance for two decades.
Following this strategic work he has occupied a series of Career exploration business and functional roles in South America, the North Sea Mark Bly joined BP in 1984.
From 1986 to 1996, he and new business development globally.
worked on various engineering and commercial leadership assignments in Houston, a period when BP was establishing itself in the Deepwater Gulf In 2000 he became the president for BPs Middle East and South Asia of Mexico.
Following which he held business unit leader posts in Alaska businesses.
In July 2006, Dr Daly was appointed BPs Head of Exploration and the North Sea as well as strategic performance unit leader for North and New Business Development and in October 2010 was appointed American Gas.
In 2007 he became group vice president, exploration and executive vice president, exploration.
production Gulf of Mexico, Trinidad, Angola, North Africa and Egypt and External roles a member of the exploration and production operating committee.
Dr Daly is a member of the board of British Geological Survey and a In 2008 he became group head of safety and operations, with visiting professor in natural resources at Oxford University.
He is also a accountability for group level disciplines including projects, operations, member of the Arctic Council of the World Economic Forum.
engineering, health, safety, security, and environment.
In that capacity, he looked after group wide operating management system implementation, capability programs, and audit.
Bob Fryar In October 2010 Mark was appointed executive vice president of safety Current position and operational risk.
He stepped down from this role on 15 February 2013 Bob Fryar is BPs executive vice president, safety and and from the BP executive team at this date.
Group responsibilities Bob is responsible for strengthening safety, Rupert Bondy operational risk management, and the systematic management of Current position operations across the BP corporate group.
He is Group Head of Safety Rupert Bondy is BPs group general counsel.
and Operations, with accountability for group-level disciplines including projects, operations, engineering, health, safety, security, and Group responsibilities Rupert Bondy is responsible for legal and compliance environment.
In this capacity, he looks after group-wide operating management, system implementation, capability programs and audit.
matters across the BP group.
Career Career Rupert Bondy began his career as a lawyer in private practice, with a Bob Fryar has 27 years experience in the oil and gas industry having joined Amoco Production Company in 1985.
Most recently Bob was chief focus on mergers and acquisitions.
In 1989 he joined US law rm Morrison & Foerster, working in San Francisco, London and New York, executive officer for BP Angola and in his prior role vice president of operations performance unit for BP Trinidad.
and from 1994 he worked for UK law rm Lovells in London.
In 1995 he joined SmithKline Beecham as senior counsel for mergers and Prior to joining BP Trinidad in January 2003, Bob served in a variety of acquisitions and other corporate matters.
He subsequently held positions engineering and management positions in the onshore US and deepwater of increasing responsibility and following the merger of SmithKline Gulf of Mexico including petroleum engineer, eld manager, operations Beecham and GlaxoWellcome to form GlaxoSmithKline GSK he was manager, resource manager, asset manager and delivery manager.
In appointed senior vice president and general counsel of GlaxoSmithKline addition, he worked on the Vastar integration team.
In October 2010 to February 2013 Bob Fryar was executive vice president In May 2008 he joined the BP group, where he is the group general production division and was accountable for safe and compliant counsel.
exploration and production operations and stewardship of resources across all regions.
In addition, he was also responsible for local government and stakeholder management, integration of all exploration and production activities at the regional level, technical excellence across safety and operational risk and subsurface, and a robust operating management system to ensure safety, quality and compliance of production activities.
Corporate governance 109 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Andy Hopwood Lamar McKay Current position Current position Andy Hopwood is BPs chief operating officer, Lamar McKay is BPs chief executive, Upstream.
Group responsibilities Group responsibilities Lamar McKay is responsible for the combined Andy Hopwood is responsible for BPs upstream Upstream business which consists of exploration, strategy, including changes to its portfolio and investment planning.
He is development and production.
also responsible for the upstream regional footprint through leadership of Career its regional presidents, who are the upstreams senior leaders in the Lamar McKay started his career in 1980 with Amoco and has held a broad regions where the upstream operates.
In 1993, he became general manager for the Arkoma Career Basin, and in 1997 moved into the role of business unit leader for the Gulf After joining BP in 1980 as a petroleum engineer, Andy Hopwood gained of Mexico Shelf.
ten years of operating experience in the North Sea, Wytch Farm, and During 1998-2000, he worked on the BP-Amoco merger and served as Indonesia, and developing expertise in reservoir engineering in BPs head of strategy and planning for the worldwide exploration and London headquarters.
In 2000, he became business unit leader In 1989 Andy joined the corporate planning team supporting the for the Central North Sea in Aberdeen, Scotland.
In 2001, Lamar became formulation of BPs exploration strategy.
He also played an integral role in chief of staff for the worldwide exploration and production business, and executing the subsequent rationalization of BPs portfolio, divesting BPs subsequently served as chief of staff to BPs deputy group chief Canadian and Egyptian assets.
Following this corporate work, his international endeavours led to Lamar became group vice president, Russia and Kazakhstan in 2003 positions in South America, first in Mexico and then as commercial where he was responsible for BPs Upstream businesses, including BPs manager for BPs Venezuela business, prior to a return to London as the interest in the TNK-BP joint venture.
He served as a member of the board exploration and production planning manager.
of directors of TNK-BP from February 2004 to May 2007.
In 1999, he was appointed business unit leader in Azerbaijan.
He returned In May 2007, Lamar moved to Houston to assume the role of senior group to London in 2001 as the Upstream chief of staff, before becoming vice president, BP p. l. c. and executive vice president, BP America where business unit leader in Trinidad.
In 2005 he moved to Houston to become he led BPs efforts to resolve various issues involving the Texas City strategic performance unit leader for the North American gas business.
renery, Prudhoe Bay eld and US trading business.
In June 2008, he became executive vice president, special projects focusing on Russia In 2009, he joined the upstream executive as head of portfolio and where he led BPs efforts to restructure the governance framework for technology and in October 2010 he was appointed executive vice president, TNK-BP.
exploration and production, strategy and integration.
In 2013 he was appointed chief operating officer, strategy and regions, Upstream.
In February 2009, Lamar was appointed chairman and president of BP America Inc, serving as BPs chief representative in the US.
In October External roles 2010, he additionally assumed the role of chief executive officer and Andy serves as chair of the BP Foundation.
president for the Gulf Coast Restoration Organization.
On 1 January 2013, he became chief executive, Upstream.
Bernard Looney External roles Current position Lamar is a member of the American Petroleum Institutes Executive Committee, the MITs External Advisory Board: the University of Houston Bernard Looney is BPs chief operating officer, production.
Presidents Energy Advisory Board: and the Mississippi State University Deans Advisory Council.
Group responsibilities Bernard Looney is responsible for production operations, well operations, supply-chain management and engineering in the upstream.
Career Bernard Looney joined BP in 1991 as a drilling engineer, working in the North Sea, Vietnam and the Gulf of Mexico.
In 2001 Bernard took on responsibility for drilling operations on Thunder Horse in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
In 2005 Bernard became senior vice president within BP Alaska, before moving in 2007 to be head of the group chief executives ofce.
In 2009 he became the managing director of BPs North Sea business in the UK and Norway.
Bernard became executive vice president, developments, in October 2010.
He took up his current role in February 2013.
External roles Bernard is a member of the Stanford University Graduate School of Business Advisory Council and a Fellow of the Energy Institute.
110 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Corporate governance Dev Sanyal Current position Dev Sanyal is BPs executive vice president, and group chief of staff.
Group responsibilities Dev Sanyal is the accountable executive for all of BPs corporate activities in central programme management, government and political affairs, policy, group risk management, economics and competitor intelligence.
Career Dev Sanyal joined BP in 1989 and has held a variety of international roles in London, Athens, Istanbul, Vienna and Dubai.
He was appointed chief executive, BP Eastern Mediterranean Fuels in 1999.
In 2002, he moved to London as chief of staff of BPs worldwide downstream businesses.
In November 2003, he was appointed chief executive officer of Air BP.
In June 2006, he was appointed head of the group chief executives ofce.
He was appointed group vice president and group treasurer in 2007.
During this period, he was also chairman of BP Investment Management Ltd and accountable for the groups aluminium interests.
In January 2012, he became executive vice president, and group chief of staff.
External roles Dev is a member of the Accenture Global Energy Board, the European Advisory Board of The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy and Trustee of the Career Academy Foundation.
Helmut Schuster Current position Helmut Schuster is BPs executive vice president, group human resources director.
Group responsibilities Helmut Schuster became group human resources director on 1 March 2011.
In this role he holds accountabilities for the BP human resources function.
Career Helmut Schuster began his career working for Henkel in a marketing capacity.
Since joining BP in 1989 Helmut has held a number of major leadership roles.
He has worked in BP in the US, UK and continental Europe and within most parts of rening, marketing, trading and gas and power.
Before taking on his current role his portfolio of responsibilities as a vice president, human resources included the rening and marketing segment of BP, and corporate and functions.
This role saw him leading the people agenda for roughly 60,000 people across the globe and includes businesses such as petrochemicals, fuels value chains, lubricants and functional experts across the corporation.
Corporate governance 111 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
