Corporate governance Tracking issues from our previous evaluation In 2012, the board progressed recommendations of the 2011 board Board visit to US hydraulic fracturing operations evaluation.
The board continued to track the risk management review and the implementation of enhancements to the companys risk management system.
Emphasis was given to key governance processes raised by the 2011 evaluation, with board and committee papers adopting a common In May, six non-executive directors travelled to East Texas to visit our template and risk matrices in board materials using a consistent North America gas operations for a first-hand look at onshore natural methodology aligned with the groups risk management reports.
gas production sites and the technique known as hydraulic fracturing There was also increased focus on financial and non-financial metrics or fracking.
The visit was an opportunity for the board to learn more used by the board and this will continue into 2013. about BPs natural gas business in the US, and in particular about production from unconventional gas resources.
More than 80% of A further outcome of the last evaluation was the wish to move back to a BPs onshore gas is from unconventional gas resources such as shale steady state of operation.
However, developments during the year led to gas, tight gas and coalbed methane.
an increase in the scheduled number of board meetings from 11 to 19: the board will again endeavour to nd this equilibrium over the course of 2013.
Following a site specic safety brieng, the directors toured a drilling rig at the well site where they were given an overview of the drilling process and saw a hydraulic fracturing set up with pump trucks and other associated equipment.
The tour also included a visit to the production facility, where board members obtained insights on the water and gas separation operations, and how product coming from wells in the area is handled prior to processing.
In commenting on his impressions of the visit, the chairman of SEEAC Paul Anderson said: We have a professional, dedicated team that is doing a good and responsible job of developing the resource.
Board evaluation BP undertakes an annual review of the board, its committees and individual directors.
The chairmans own performance is evaluated by the chairmans committee led by Antony Burgmans in consultation with the senior independent director.
For the past three years an external review of the boards performance has been undertaken, and for 2012 the board undertook an evaluation facilitated by external legal counsel on the basis of a questionnaire, which tested key areas of the boards work including strategy, monitoring, risk and governance processes.
The evaluation also considered the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company on the board, its diversity including gender, how the board works together as a unit and other factors relevant to its effectiveness.
The results of the review were discussed at the board and individually at each committee in January 2013.
Key conclusions from the evaluation The review concluded that there had been significant progress in dealing with major strategic issues over the year and there had been a continued improvement in board processes, particularly in the areas of time management and board materials.
Going forward, it was agreed that the emphasis on improving board processes would continue and that as the group transitioned to a more stable business environment, the board would focus on re-aligning its agenda to increase the focus on strategic issues.
There would also be more use of forward agenda planning to enable this to be realised.
Corporate governance 115 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
