Additional disclosures On 21 April 2011, BP announced an agreement with natural resource On 23 March 2005, an explosion and fire occurred at the Texas City trustees for the US and five Gulf Coast states, providing for up to $1 billion refinery.
Fifteen workers died in the incident and many others were to be spent on early restoration projects to address natural resource injured.
BP Products has resolved all civil injury claims and all civil and injuries resulting from the Incident.
Funding for these projects will come criminal governmental claims arising from the March 2005 incident.
In March 2007, the US Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board A claim was commenced against BP by a group of claimants on 26 July CSB issued a report on the incident.
The report contained 2012 in Ecuador.
The majority of the claimants represent local NGOs.
The recommendations to the Texas City refinery and to the board of directors claim alleges that through the Incident and BPs response to it, BP of BP.
To date, CSB has accepted as satisfactorily addressed the majority violated the rights of nature.
The claim is not monetary but rather seeks of BPs responses to its recommendations.
BP and the CSB are injunctive relief.
Two previous claims on identical grounds were previously continuing to discuss the remaining open recommendations with the dismissed at an early stage by the Ecuadorian courts.
On 3 December objective of the CSB agreeing to accept these as satisfactorily addressed 2012, the Ecuadorian court of first instance dismissed the claim.
7 December 2012, the claimants filed a timely notice of appeal to the On 29 October 2009, the US Occupational Safety and Health Ecuadorian court of second instance.
On 28 February 2013, the court Administration OSHA issued citations to the Texas City refinery related affirmed the dismissal by the lower court.
to the Process Safety Management PSM Standard.
On 12 July 2012, BPs potential liabilities resulting from threatened, pending and potential OSHA and BP resolved 409 of the 439 citations.
The agreement required future claims, lawsuits and enforcement actions relating to the Incident, that BP pay a civil penalty of $13,027,000 and that BP abate the alleged together with the potential cost of implementing remedies sought in the violations by 31 December 2012.
BP completed these requirements and various proceedings, cannot be fully estimated at this time but they have the agreement has terminated.
The settlement excluded 30 citations for had and are expected to have a material adverse impact on the groups which BP and OSHA could not reach agreement.
However, the parties business, competitive position, cash flows, prospects, liquidity, agreed that BPs penalty liability will not exceed $1 million if those shareholder returns and or implementation of its strategic agenda, citations are resolved through litigation.
Additional efforts will be made in particularly in the US.
These potential liabilities may continue to have a the future to resolve these citations.
material adverse effect on the groups results and financial condition.
See On 8 March 2010, OSHA issued 65 citations to BP Products and BPFinancial statements Note 2 on page 194 for information regarding the Husky for alleged violations of the PSM Standard at the Toledo refinery, financial impact of the Incident.
with penalties of approximately $3 million.
These citations resulted from an inspection conducted pursuant to OSHAs Petroleum Refinery Process Pending investigations and reports relating to Safety Management National Emphasis Program.
Both BP Products and the Deepwater Horizon oil spill BP-Husky contested the citations, and a trial of 42 citations was The US Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board CSB is completed in June 2012 before an Administrative Law Judge from the conducting an investigation of the Incident that is focused on the OSH Review Commission.
explosions and fire, and not the resulting oil spill or response efforts.
As A flaring event occurred at the Texas City refinery in April and May 2010. part of this effort, on 24 July 2012, the CSB conducted a hearing at which This flaring event is the subject of civil lawsuit claims for personal injury it released its preliminary findings on, among other things, the use of and, in some cases, property damage by roughly 50,000 individuals.
These safety indicators by industry including BP and Transocean and lawsuit claims have been consolidated in a Texas multi-district litigation government regulators in offshore operations prior to the accident.
The proceeding in Galveston, Texas.
A trial of six selected plaintiffs is CSB found that BP and other offshore industry members have placed too scheduled for trial in September 2013.
Also, this flaring event, and other great an emphasis on personal safety rather than process safety overall.
refinery emissions from December 2008 through 2010, is the subject of a The CSB has indicated that it plans to issue its final report in April 2013. purported class action, on behalf of some local residential property The CSB will seek to recommend improvements to BP and industry owners, filed in US federal district court in Galveston.
The purported class practices and to regulatory programmes to prevent recurrence and plaintiffs claim that refinery emissions caused their residential properties mitigate potential consequences.
No class has been certified, and no trial date has been set.
A Committee of the National Academy of Engineering National Research In addition, the flares involved in this event are the subject of a federal Council is looking at the methodologies available for assessing spill government enforcement action.
impacts on ecosystem services in the Gulf of Mexico, with a final report In March and August 2006, oil leaked from oil transit pipelines operated by expected in the first or second quarter of 2013.
BP Exploration Alaska Inc. BPXA at the Prudhoe Bay unit on the North Slope of Alaska.
On 12 May 2008, a BP p. l. c. shareholder filed a Other legal proceedings consolidated complaint alleging violations of federal securities law on The US Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC and the US behalf of a putative class of BP p. l. c. shareholders against BP p. l. c. BPXA, Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC are currently BP America, and four officers of the companies, based on alleged investigating several BP entities regarding trading in the next-day natural misrepresentations concerning the integrity of the Prudhoe Bay pipeline gas market at Houston Ship Channel during September, October and before its shutdown on 6 August 2006.
On 8 February 2010, the Ninth November 2008.
The FERC Office of Enforcement staff notified BP on Circuit Court of Appeals accepted BPs appeal from a decision of the 12 November 2010 of their preliminary conclusions relating to alleged lower court granting in part and denying in part BPs motion to dismiss the market manipulation in violation of 18 C. F. R. Sec.
On 29 June 2011, the Ninth Circuit ruled in BPs favour that the 2010, CFTC Enforcement staff also provided BP with a notice of intent to filing of a trust related agreement with the SEC containing contractual recommend charges based on the same conduct alleging that BP obligations on the part of BP was not a misrepresentation which violated engaged in attempted market manipulation in violation of Section 6 c, federal securities laws.
The BP p. l. c. shareholder filed an amended 6 d, and 9 a 2 of the Commodity Exchange Act.
On 23 December 2010, complaint, in response to which BP filed a new motion to dismiss, which BP submitted responses to the FERC and CFTC November 2010 notices was granted on 14 March 2012.
The plaintiff has appealed the courts providing a detailed response that it did not engage in any inappropriate or dismissal of the case, and the appeal is pending.
On 31 March 2009, the unlawful activity.
On 28 July 2011, the FERC staff issued a Notice of State of Alaska filed a complaint seeking civil penalties and damages Alleged Violations stating that it had preliminarily determined that several relating to these events.
The complaint alleges that the two releases and BP entities fraudulently traded physical natural gas in the Houston Ship BPXAs corrosion management practices violated various statutory, Channel and Katy markets and trading points to increase the value of their contractual and common law duties to the State, resulting in penalty financial swing spread positions.
Other investigations into BPs trading liability, damages for lost royalties and taxes, and liability for punitive activities continue to be conducted from time to time.
In December 2011, the State of Alaska and BPXA entered into a Dispute Resolution Agreement concerning this matter that resulted in arbitration of the amount of the States lost royalty income and payment by BPXA of the additional amount of $10 million on account of other Additional disclosures 169 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 claims in the complaint.
Evidentiary hearings in the arbitration occurred in discussions with the EPA regarding alleged CAA violations at the Toledo, May and June 2012, and an award was issued by the arbitration panel in Carson and Cherry Point refineries.
November 2012 in the approximate amount of $245 million.
BPXAs On 23 May 2012, BP Products North America, Inc. the EPA, the working interest share of that award is approximately $66 million.
All Department of Justice DoJ, the IDEM and the NGOs resolved objections amounts due to the State of Alaska in this matter were paid in November to the air permit for the Whiting refinery modernization project and settled 2012. allegations of air emissions violations at the Whiting refinery.
The Approximately 200 lawsuits were filed in state and federal courts in Alaska settlement requires emission reduction projects with an estimated cost of seeking compensatory and punitive damages arising out of the Exxon approximately $400 million and the payment of a civil penalty of $8 million.
Valdez oil spill in Prince William Sound in March 1989.
Most of those suits The settlement was approved by the federal court on 6 November 2012. named Exxon now ExxonMobil, Alyeska Pipeline Service Company On 20 December 2012 IDEM issued the final, revised air permit for the Alyeska, which operates the oil terminal at Valdez, and the other oil modernization project that incorporates the relevant consent decree companies that own Alyeska.
Alyeska initially responded to the spill until provisions.
the response was taken over by Exxon.
BP owns a 46.9% interest An application was brought in the English High Court on 1 February 2011 reduced during 2001 from 50% by a sale of 3.1% to Phillips in Alyeska by Alfa Petroleum Holdings Limited and OGIP Ventures Limited against through a subsidiary of BP America Inc. and briefly indirectly owned a BP International Limited and BP Russian Investments Limited alleging further 20% interest in Alyeska following BPs combination with Atlantic breach of a Shareholders Agreement on the part of BP and seeking an Richfield.
Alyeska and its owners have settled all the claims against them interim injunction restraining BP from taking steps to conclude, implement under these lawsuits.
Exxon has indicated that it may file a claim for or perform the transactions with Rosneft Oil Company, originally contribution against Alyeska for a portion of the costs and damages that it announced on 14 January 2011, relating to oil and gas exploration, has incurred.
If any claims are asserted by Exxon that affect Alyeska and production, refining and marketing in Russia the Arctic Opportunity.
its owners, BP will defend the claims vigorously.
Those transactions included the issue or transfer of shares between Since 1987, Atlantic Richfield Company Atlantic Richfield, a subsidiary of Rosneft Oil Company and any BP group company pursuant to the Rosneft BP, has been named as a co-defendant in numerous lawsuits brought in Share Swap Agreement.
The court granted an interim order restraining the US alleging injury to persons and property caused by lead pigment in BP from taking any further steps in relation to the Arctic Opportunity paint.
The majority of the lawsuits have been abandoned or dismissed pending an expedited UNCITRAL arbitration procedure in accordance with against Atlantic Richfield.
Atlantic Richfield is named in these lawsuits as the Shareholders Agreement between the parties.
The arbitration alleged successor to International Smelting and Refining and another commenced and the interim injunction was continued by the arbitration company that manufactured lead pigment during the period 1920-1946. panel.
On 17 May 2011, BP announced that both the Rosneft Share Swap Plaintiffs include individuals and governmental entities.
Several of the Agreement and the Arctic Opportunity, originally announced on lawsuits purport to be class actions.
The lawsuits seek various remedies 14 January 2011, had terminated.
This termination was as a result of the including compensation to lead-poisoned children, cost to find and remove deadline for the satisfaction of conditions precedent having expired lead paint from buildings, medical monitoring and screening programmes, following delays resulting from the interim orders referred to above.
These public warning and education of lead hazards, reimbursement of interim orders did not address the question of whether or not BP government healthcare costs and special education for lead-poisoned breached the Shareholders Agreement.
The arbitration proceedings, citizens and punitive damages.
No lawsuit against Atlantic Richfield has which addressed the allegation of breach by BP for late notification to been settled nor has Atlantic Richfield been subject to a final adverse TNK-BP shareholders Alfa, Access and Renova AAR of the Arctic judgment in any proceeding.
The amounts claimed and, if such suits were Opportunity, was settled on 13 November 2012 as part of a settlement of successful, the costs of implementing the remedies sought in the various all the outstanding disputes between BP and AAR.
While it is not possible to predict the outcome Five minority shareholders of OAO TNK-BP Holding TBH filed two civil of these legal actions, Atlantic Richfield believes that it has valid defences.
actions in Tyumen, Siberia, against BP Russian Investments Limited It intends to defend such actions vigorously and believes that the BPRIL and BP p. l. c. and against two of the BP nominated directors of incurrence of liability is remote.
Consequently, BP believes that the impact TBH.
These two actions sought to recover alleged losses to TBH of $13 of these lawsuits on the groups results, financial position or liquidity will billion and $2.7 billion respectively arising from the failure to involve TNKnot be material.
BP in BPs proposed alliance with Rosneft.
On 11 November 2011, the In April 2009, Kenneth Abbott, as relator, filed a US False Claims Act Tyumen Court dismissed both claims fully on their merits.
The plaintiffs lawsuit against BP, alleging that BP violated federal regulations, and made appealed both of these decisions to the Omsk Appellate court.
On false statements in connection with its compliance with those regulations, 26 January 2012, the Appellate court upheld the Tyumen Courts by failing to have necessary documentation for the Atlantis subsea and dismissal of the claim in relation to the BP nominated directors of TBH.
BP is the operator and 56% interest owner of the Atlantis The Omsk Appellate court subsequently upheld the Tyumen court of first unit in production in the Gulf of Mexico.
That complaint was unsealed in instances dismissal of the minority suits against BPRIL and BP p. l. c. The May 2010 and served on BP in June 2010.
Abbott seeks damages plaintiffs then appealed both of the Omsk Appellate court decisions to the measured by the value, net of royalties, of all past and future production cassation court of appeal in Tyumen.
The cassation court upheld the from the Atlantis platform, trebled, plus penalties.
In September 2010, dismissal of the claim against the BP nominated directors, and the case Kenneth Abbott and Food & Water Watch filed an amended complaint in against the BP nominated directors is now resolved.
However, the the False Claims Act lawsuit seeking an injunction shutting down the cassation court remitted the case against the BP companies back to the Atlantis platform.
The court denied BPs motion to dismiss the complaint Tyumen Court of first instance for reconsideration.
The plaintiffs amended in March 2011.
Separately, also in March 2011, BOEMRE issued its their claim to reduce their damages to approximately $8.6 billion.
On investigation report of the Abbott Atlantis allegations, which concluded 27 July 2012 the Tyumen Court ruled in favour of the plaintiffs and that Kenneth Abbotts allegations that Atlantis operations personnel awarded $3.0 billion in damages against the BP companies.
BPRIL filed an lacked access to critical, engineer-approved drawings were without merit appeal of the Tyumen Courts decision with the Omsk Appellate court.
In and that his allegations about false submissions by BP to BOEMRE were addition, Rosneft and BP-nominated directors of TNK-BP Ltd. filed unfounded.
Trial was scheduled to begin on 10 April 2012, but the trial statements in support of the contention that the award is unjustified, and date was vacated and not rescheduled pending consideration of the the plaintiffs claims wholly without merit.
On 25 October 2012 the Omsk parties summary judgment motions.
Appellate court adjourned its hearing of the appeal until 9 November 2012 and subsequently until 14 December 2012.
At that hearing the minority Various non-governmental organizations NGOs and the EPA shareholder petitioned the court to withdraw the lawsuit.
The court challenged certain aspects of the air permits issued by the Indiana adjourned that hearing until 24 January 2013 upon the motion of Rosneft.
Department of Environmental Management IDEM related to the Whiting At the hearing on 24 January 2013 the court acceded to the motion of the refinery modernization project.
BP has been in discussions with the EPA, minority shareholder to withdraw the claim and ruled that the claim should the IDEM and certain environmental groups over these and other Clean be withdrawn.
Rosneft has appealed this ruling to the Tyumen Court of Air Act CAA issues relating to the Whiting refinery.
BP has also been in Cassation on the basis that the claim should be dismissed on the merits 170 Additional disclosures BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
