Exit payment policy Service contracts If it became necessary for the company to terminate an executive Summary details of each executive directors service agreement are directors employment, and therefore to determine a termination payment, as follows: the committees policy would be as follows in relation to the matters described below: Table of contracts Salary as at t The directors primary entitlement would be to a termination payment in Service agreement date 1 Jan 2013 respect of his service agreement, as set out above.
The committee will Bob Dudley 6 Apr 2009 $1,751,000 consider mitigation to reduce the termination payment to a leaving Iain Conn 22 Jul 2004 752,000 director when appropriate to do so, having regard to the circumstances Dr Brian Gilvary 22 Feb 2012 690,000 and the law governing the agreement.
Mitigation would not be applicable where a contractual payment in lieu of notice is made.
In Dr Byron Grote 7 Aug 2000 $1,485,000 addition, the director may be entitled to a payment in respect of his Bob Dudleys contract is with BP Corporation North America Inc.
Other potential elements are as follows.
First, the is seconded to BP p. l. c. under a secondment agreement dated 15 April committee would consider whether the director should be entitled to an 2012, which expires on 15 April 2014.
Dr Byron Grotes agreement is with annual bonus in respect of the financial year in which the termination BP Exploration Alaska Inc.
He is seconded to BP p. l. c. under a occurs: normally, any such bonus would be restricted to the directors secondment agreement of 7 August 2000, which expires at the date of actual period of service in that financial year.
Second, the committee the 2013 AGM.
Both secondments can be terminated by one months would consider whether conditional share awards held by the director notice by either party and terminate automatically on the termination of under the EDIP should lapse on leaving or should, at the committees their service agreements.
Iain Conns and Dr Brian Gilvarys service discretion, be preserved in which event the award would normally agreements are with BP p. l. c. continue until the normal vesting date and be treated in the manner described on pages 139 and 140 of this report.
Any such determination Each executive director is entitled to pension provision, details of which will be made in accordance with the rules of the EDIP, as approved by are summarized on page 133 of this report.
Third, if the departing director is eligible for an early Each executive director is entitled to the following contractual benets: retirement pension, the committee would consider, if relevant under the terms of the plan in which the director participates, the extent of t A company car for business and private use, on terms that the company any actuarial reduction that should be applied.
bear all normal servicing, insurance and running costs.
Alternatively, the executive director is entitled to a car allowance in lieu.
t In determining the overall termination arrangements, the committee would have regard to all relevant circumstances, and would therefore t Medical and dental benets: sick pay during periods of absence: tax distinguish between types of leaver and the circumstances under preparation assistance.
which the director left the company.
This is primarily relevant to t indemnification in accordance with applicable law.
consideration of how discretion would be exercised in relation to Each executive director participates in bonus or incentive arrangements at conditional share awards under the EDIP.
It is also relevant where a the committees sole discretion.
Currently, each participates in the departing director has a right to an early retirement pension.
UK discretionary bonus scheme and the EDIP, described on pages 138 and directors who leave in circumstances approved by the committee may 139 and 140 of this report respectively.
have a favourable actuarial reduction applied to their pensions which has to date been 3%.
Departing directors who leave in other Each executive director may terminate his employment by giving his circumstances are subject to a greater reduction.
In this event, for business reasons, the employer would not necessarily hold the executive director to his full t The performance of the leaving director would be taken into account in notice period.
In particular, in deciding whether to exercise discretion to preserve EDIP awards, the committee would have regard Other than in the case of Dr Brian Gilvary who became a director on to the directors performance during the performance cycle of the 1 January 2012, the service agreements are expressed to expire at a relevant awards, as well as a range of other relevant factors, including normal retirement age of 60: however, such executive directors could not, the proximity of the award to its maturity date.
under UK law, be required to retire at this or any other age following t The committee would also have regard to all other relevant factors, abolition of the default retirement age.
including consideration of whether a contractual provision in the The employer may lawfully terminate the executive directors employment directors arrangements complied with best practice at the time the in the following ways: directors employment was terminated as well as at the time the t By giving the director 12 months written notice.
t Without compensation, in circumstances where the employer is Director leaving the board entitled to terminate for cause, as dened for the purposes of his Dr Byron Grote will be retiring from the board at the 2013 AGM, and service agreement.
ceasing employment with the company soon after.
Under the rules of the Additionally, in the case of Iain Conn and Dr Brian Gilvary, the company EDIP, his outstanding performance share awards pertaining to the may lawfully terminate employment by making a lump sum payment in 2011-2013, 2012-2014 and 2013-2015 performance periods, as well as the lieu of notice equal to 12 months base salary.
The company may elect to matching share awards in respect of 2010, 2011 and 2012 deferred bonus pay this sum in monthly instalments rather than as a lump sum.
will all be prorated to reect actual service during the applicable three-year The lawful termination mechanisms described above are without performance periods.
These share awards will vest at the normal time to prejudice to the employers ability in appropriate circumstances to the extent the performance targets or hurdles are met.
His 2013 bonus terminate in breach of the notice period referred to above, and thereby to eligibility will likewise be prorated to reect his service and based on be liable for damages to the executive director.
group results for the year.
He will not receive any termination payments on leaving service.
In the event of termination by the company, each executive director may have an entitlement to compensation in respect of his statutory rights under employment protection legislation in the UK and potentially elsewhere.
The committee considers that its policy on termination payments arising from the contractual provisions summarised above provides an appropriate degree of protection to the director in the event of termination, and is consistent with UK market practice.
142 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
