Shareholder information subject to special rules and holders that, directly or indirectly, hold 10% or Dividends more of the companys voting stock.
In addition, if a partnership holds the shares or ADSs, the US federal income tax treatment of a partner will When dividends are paid on its ordinary shares, BPs policy is to pay generally depend on the status of the partner and the tax treatment of the interim dividends on a quarterly basis.
partnership and may not be described fully below.
BPs policy is also to announce dividends for ordinary shares in US dollars A US holder is any beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that is for and state an equivalent sterling dividend.
Dividends on BP ordinary shares US federal income tax purposes i a citizen or resident of the US, ii a US will be paid in sterling and on BP ADSs in US dollars.
The rate of exchange domestic corporation, iii an estate whose income is subject to US federal used to determine the sterling amount equivalent is the average of the income taxation regardless of its source, or iv a trust if a US court can market exchange rates in London over the four business days prior to the exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration and one or sterling equivalent announcement date.
The directors may choose to more US persons are authorized to control all substantial decisions of the declare dividends in any currency provided that a sterling equivalent is trust.
announced, but it is not the companys intention to change its current This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, policy of announcing dividends on ordinary shares in US dollars.
its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations thereunder, Information regarding dividends announced and paid by the company on published rulings and court decisions, and the taxation laws of the UK, all ordinary shares and preference shares is provided in Financial statements as currently in effect, as well as the income tax convention between the Note 19 on page 214.
US and the UK that entered into force on 31 March 2003 the Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
This A Scrip Dividend Programme Scrip was approved by shareholders in section is further based in part on the representations of the Depositary 2010 which enables BP ordinary shareholders and ADS holders to elect to and assumes that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement and any receive new fully paid BP ordinary shares or ADSs in the case of ADS related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
The operation of the Scrip is always subject to the directors decision to make the Scrip offer available in respect of any For purposes of the Treaty and the estate and gift tax Convention the particular dividend.
Should the directors decide not to offer the Scrip in Estate Tax Convention and for US federal income tax and UK taxation respect of any particular dividend, cash will automatically be paid instead.
purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as the owner of the companys ordinary shares represented by those ADRs.
Exchanges Future dividends will be dependent on future earnings, the financial of ordinary shares for ADRs and ADRs for ordinary shares generally will condition of the group, the Risk factors set out on pages 38-44 and other not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK taxation other than matters that may affect the business of the group set out in Our strategy stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax, as described below.
on pages 20-21 and in Liquidity and capital resources on pages 90-93.
Investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding the US federal, The following table shows dividends announced and paid by the company state and local, UK and other tax consequences of owning and disposing per ADS for each of the past five years.
of ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances, and in a Dividends per ADS March June September December Total particular whether they are eligible for the benefits of the Treaty.
2008 UK pence 40.9 41.0 42.2 52.2 176.3 US cents 81.15 81.15 84.0 84.0 330.3 Taxation of dividends Canadian UKtaxation b cents 80.8 82.5 85.8 108.6 357.7 Under current UK taxation law, no withholding tax will be deducted from 2009 UK pence 58.91 57.50 51.02 51.07 218.5 dividends paid by the company, including dividends paid to US holders.
A US cents 84 84 84 84 336 shareholder that is a company resident for tax purposes in the UK or 2010 UK pence 52.07 52.07 trading in the UK through a permanent establishment generally will not be US cents 84 84 taxable in the UK on a dividend it receives from the company.
A 2011 UK pence 26.02 25.68 25.90 26.82 104.42 shareholder who is an individual resident for tax purposes in the UK is US cents 42 42 42 42 168 subject to UK tax but entitled to a tax credit on cash dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs of the company equal to one-ninth of the cash 2012 UK pence 30.57 30.90 30.10 33.53 125.10 dividend.
US cents 48 48 48 54 198 a Dividends announced and paid by the company on ordinary and preference shares is provided in  Financial statements Note 19 on page 214.
A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross amount b BP shares were fide-listed from the Toronto Stock Exchange on 15 August 2008 and the last of any dividend paid by the company out of its current or accumulated dividend payment in Canadian dollars was made on 8 December 2008. earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in taxable years beginning  after 2012 that constitute qualified dividend income will be taxable to the holder at a preferential rate, provided that the holder has a holding period dividends in the ordinary shares or ADSs of more than 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and meets other There are currently no UK foreign exchange controls or restrictions on holding period requirements.
In the case of a non-corporate US holder remittances of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of the whose taxable income does not exceed $400,000 $450,000 in the case companys operations, other than restrictions applicable to certain countries of a joint filer, such dividends will be taxed at a maximum rate of 15%.
and persons subject to EU economic sanctions.
Such dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder whose income is above There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or under the these dollar thresholds will be subject to tax at a rate of 20%.
These dollar companys Articles of Association, restricting the right of non-resident or thresholds will be adjusted for inflation for tax years after 2013.
Dividends foreign owners to hold or vote BP ordinary or preference shares in the paid by the company with respect to the shares or ADSs will generally be company other than limitations that would generally apply to all of the qualified dividend income.
shareholders and limitations applicable to certain countries and persons As noted above in UK taxation, a US holder will not be subject to UK subject to EU economic sanctions.
A US holder will include in gross income for US federal income tax purposes the amount of the dividend actually received from  the company, and the receipt of a dividend will not entitle the US holder to a foreign tax credit.
This section describes the material US federal income tax and UK taxation For US federal income tax purposes, a dividend must be included in consequences of owning ordinary shares or ADSs to a US holder who income when the US holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the holds the ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax purposes.
It Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the does not apply, however, to members of special classes of holders Shareholder information 155 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 dividend and will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction tax at a rate of 20%.
These dollar thresholds will be adjusted for inflation for generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received from tax years after 2013. other US corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources outside the Gain or loss from the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs US and generally will be passive category income or, in the case of will generally be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax certain US holders, general category income, each of which is treated credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of capital losses is subject to separately for purposes of computing a US holders foreign tax credit limitations.
We do not believe that ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as stock of The amount of the dividend distribution on the ordinary shares or ADSs a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for US federal income tax that is paid in pounds sterling will be the US dollar value of the pounds purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that is made sterling payments made, determined at the spot pounds sterling US annually and thus is subject to change.
If we are treated as a PFIC, unless dollar rate on the date the dividend distribution is includible in income, a US holder elects to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis with regardless of whether the payment is, in fact, converted into US dollars.
respect to ordinary shares or ADSs, any gain realized on the sale or other Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs would in general not be treated as during the period from the date the pounds sterling dividend payment is capital gain.
Instead, a US holder would be treated as if he or she had includible in income to the date the payment is converted into US dollars realized such gain rateably over the holding period for ordinary shares or will be treated as ordinary income or loss and will not be eligible for the ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such preferential tax rate on qualified dividend income.
The gain or loss year to which the gain was allocated, in addition to which an interest generally will be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year would apply.
Certain excess distributions would be similarly treated if we were treated Distributions in excess of the companys earnings and profits, as asaPFIC.
determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a return of capital to the extent of the US holders basis in the ordinary shares or Additional tax considerations ADSs and thereafter as capital gain, subject to taxation as described in  Taxation of capital gains US federal income taxation section below.
The company has an optional Scrip Dividend Programme, wherein holders of BP ordinary shares or ADSs may elect to receive any dividends in the In addition, the taxation of dividends may be subject to the rules for passive foreign investment companies PFIC, described below under form of new fully-paid ordinary shares or ADSs of the company instead of cash.
Please consult your tax adviser for the consequences to you.
Taxation of capital gains US federal income taxation.
Distributions made by a PFIC do not constitute qualified dividend income and are not UKinheritancetax eligible for the preferential tax rate applicable to such income.
The Estate Tax Convention applies to inheritance tax.
ADSs held by an individual who is domiciled for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention Taxation of capital gains in the US and is not for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention a UKtaxation national of the UK will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain on individuals death or on transfer during the individuals lifetime unless, the disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs if the US holder is i a citizen of among other things, the ADSs are part of the business property of a the US resident or ordinarily resident in the UK, ii a US domestic permanent establishment situated in the UK used for the performance of corporation resident in the UK by reason of its business being managed or independent personal services.
In the exceptional case where ADSs are controlled in the UK or iii a citizen of the US or a corporation that carries subject to both inheritance tax and US federal gift or estate tax, the Estate on a trade or profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency Tax Convention generally provides for tax payable in the US to be credited or, in respect of corporations for accounting periods beginning on or after against tax payable in the UK or for tax paid in the UK to be credited 1 January 2003, through a permanent establishment, and that have used, against tax payable in the US, based on priority rules set forth in the held, or acquired the ordinary shares or ADSs for the purposes of such Estate Tax Convention.
trade, profession or vocation of such branch, agency or permanent  establishment.
However, such persons may be entitled to a tax credit The statements below relate to what is understood to be the current against their US federal income tax liability for the amount of UK capital practice of HM Revenue & Customs in the UK under existing law.
gains tax or UK corporation tax on chargeable gains as the case may be that is paid in respect of such gain.
Provided that any instrument of transfer is not executed in the UK and remains at all times outside the UK and the transfer does not relate to any Under the Treaty, capital gains on dispositions of ordinary shares or ADSs matter or thing done or to be done in the UK, no UK stamp duty is payable generally will be subject to tax only in the jurisdiction of residence of the on the acquisition or transfer of ADSs.
Neither will an agreement to relevant holder as determined under both the laws of the UK and the US transfer ADSs in the form of ADRs give rise to a liability to stamp duty and as required by the terms of the Treaty.
Under the Treaty, individuals who are residents of either the UK or the US Purchases of ordinary shares, as opposed to ADSs, through the CREST and who have been residents of the other jurisdiction the US or the UK, system of paperless share transfers will be subject to stamp duty reserve as the case may be at any time during the six years immediately tax at 0.5%.
The charge will arise as soon as there is an agreement for the preceding the relevant disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs may be subject transfer of the shares or, in the case of a conditional agreement, when to tax with respect to capital gains arising from a disposition of ordinary the condition is fulfilled.
The stamp duty reserve tax will apply to shares or ADSs of the company not only in the jurisdiction of which the agreements to transfer ordinary shares even if the agreement is made holder is resident at the time of the disposition but also in the other outside the UK between two non-residents.
Purchases of ordinary shares jurisdiction.
outside the CREST system are subject either to stamp duty at a rate of  5 per 1,000 or part, unless the stamp duty is less than 5, when no A US holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs will stamp duty is charged, or stamp duty reserve tax at 0.5%.
Stamp duty recognize a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal to and stamp duty reserve tax are generally the liability of the purchaser.
the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realized and the A subsequent transfer of ordinary shares to the Depositarys nominee will holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
give rise to further stamp duty at the rate of 1.50 per 100 or part or Any capital gain of a non-corporate US holder is taxed at a preferential rate if stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 1.5% of the value of the ordinary the holders holding period for such ordinary shares or ADSs exceeds one shares at the time of the transfer.
For ADR holders electing to receive year.
In the case of a non-corporate US holder whose taxable income does ADSs instead of cash, after the 2012 first quarter dividend payment not exceed $400,000 $450,000 in the case of a joint filer, such gain will be taxed at a maximum rate of 15%.
Such gain recognized by a non-corporate US holder whose income is above these dollar thresholds will be subject to 156 Shareholder information BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
