Corporate governance The companys internal control over financial reporting includes policies Code of ethics and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in The company has adopted a code of ethics for its group chief executive, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reect transactions and dispositions chief financial officer, group controller, general auditor and chief of assets: provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded accounting officer as required by the provisions of Section 406 of the as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules issued by the SEC.
There have with IFRS and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in been no waivers from the code of ethics relating to any ofcers.
accordance with authorizations of management and the directors of BP: BP also has a code of conduct, which is applicable to all employees.
This and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of BPs assets was updated and published on 1 January 2012. that could have a material effect on our financial statements.
BPs internal Controls and procedures control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2012 has been audited by Ernst & Young, an independent registered public accounting rm, as Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures stated in their report appearing on page 181 of BP Annual Report and The company maintains disclosure controls and procedures, as such Form 20-F 2012. term is dened in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e, that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports the company Changes in internal control over financial reporting les or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, There were no changes in the groups internal controls over financial summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the reporting that occurred during the period covered by the Form 20-F that Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and that such have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our information is accumulated and communicated to management, including internal controls over financial reporting.
the companys group chief executive and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Principal accountants fees and services In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, our The audit committee has established policies and procedures for the management, including the group chief executive and chief financial engagement of the independent registered public accounting rm, officer, recognize that any controls and procedures, no matter how well Ernst & Young LLP, to render audit and certain assurance and tax services.
designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, The policies provide for pre-approval by the audit committee of specically assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures dened audit, audit-related, tax and other services that are not prohibited are met.
Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no by regulatory or other professional requirements.
Ernst & Young are evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control engaged for these services when its expertise and experience of BP are issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been important.
Most of this work is of an audit nature.
Further, in the design and evaluation of our disclosure controls awarded either through a full competitive tender process or following an and procedures our management necessarily was required to apply its assessment of the expertise of Ernst & Young relative to that of other judgement in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls potential service providers.
These services are for a xed term.
Also, we have investments in certain unconsolidated Under the policy, pre-approval is given for specic services within the entities.
As we do not control these entities, our disclosure controls and following categories: advice on accounting, auditing and financial reporting procedures with respect to such entities are necessarily substantially matters: internal accounting and risk management control reviews more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated excluding any services relating to information systems design and subsidiaries.
Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control implementation : non-statutory audit: project assurance and advice on system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be business and accounting process improvement excluding any services detected.
The companys disclosure controls and procedures have been relating to information systems design and implementation relating to designed to meet, and management believes that they meet, reasonable BPs financial statements or accounting records : due diligence in assurance standards.
connection with acquisitions, disposals and joint ventures excluding The companys management, with the participation of the companys valuation or involvement in prospective financial information : income tax group chief executive and chief financial officer, has evaluated the and indirect tax compliance and advisory services: employee tax services effectiveness of the companys disclosure controls and procedures excluding tax services that could impair independence : provision of, or pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 b as of the end of the period access to, Ernst & Young publications, workshops, seminars and other covered by this annual report.
Based on that evaluation, the group chief training materials: provision of reports from data gathered on non-financial executive and chief financial officer have concluded that the companys policies and information: and assistance with understanding non-financial disclosure controls and procedures were effective at a reasonable regulatory requirements.
BP operates a two-tier system for audit and assurance level.
For audit related services, the audit committee has a pre-approved aggregate level, within which specic work may be Managements report on internal control over approved by management.
Non-audit services, including tax services, are pre-approved for management to authorize per individual engagement, financial reporting but above a dened level must be approved by the chairman of the audit Management of BP is responsible for establishing and maintaining committee or the full committee.
The audit committee has delegated to adequate internal control over financial reporting.
BPs internal control over the chairman of the audit committee authority to approve permitted financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the services provided that the chairman reports any decisions to the principal executive and financial ofcers to provide reasonable assurance committee at its next scheduled meeting.
Any proposed service not regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of BPs included in the approved service list must be approved in advance by the financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with audit committee chairman and reported to the committee, or approved by IFRS.
the full audit committee in advance of commencement of the As of the end of the 2012 scal year, management conducted an engagement.
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting The audit committee evaluates the performance of the auditors each year.
in accordance with the Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors The audit fees payable to Ernst & Young are reviewed by the committee in Turnbull.
Based on this assessment, management has determined that the context of other global companies for cost effectiveness.
The BPs internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2012 was committee keeps under review the scope and results of audit work and effective.
the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
External regulation and BP policy requires the auditors to rotate their lead audit partner every five years.
See Financial statements Note 16 on page 212 and Audit committee report on pages 120-122 for details of audit fees.
Corporate governance 149 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
