Corporate governance Further details Executive directors external appointments The board supports executive directors taking up appointments outside the company to broaden their knowledge and experience.
Each executive director is permitted to accept one non-executive appointment, from which they may retain any fee.
External appointments are subject to agreement by the chairman and reported to the board.
Any external appointment must not conict with a directors duties and commitments to BP.
For awards under the 2010-2012 plan, performance conditions were measured one-third on TSR against ExxonMobil, Shell, Total, ConocoPhillips and Chevron and two-thirds on a balanced scorecard of underlying performance.
For awards under the 2011-2013 plan, performance conditions are measured 50% on TSR against ExxonMobil, Shell, Total, ConocoPhillips and Chevron: 20% on reserves replacement against the same peer group: and 30% against a balanced scorecard of strategic imperatives.
For awards under the 2012-2014 plan, performance conditions are measured one-third on TSR against ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and Chevron: one-third on safety and operational risk management: and one-third on a balanced scorecard of strategic imperatives.
Each performance period ends on 31 December of the third year.
b Represents vestings of shares made at the end of the relevant performance period based on performance achieved under rules of the plan and includes reinvested dividends on the shares vested.
c Dr Byron Grote and Bob Dudley receive awards in the form of ADSs.
The above numbers reect calculated equivalents in ordinary shares.
One ADS is equivalent to six ordinary shares.
d The market price of ordinary shares on 8 March 2012 was 4.94 and for ADSs was $47.11.
e Restricted award under share element of EDIP.
As reported in the 2007 directors remuneration report in February 2008, the committee awarded Iain Conn restricted shares, in two tranches of 133,452 shares each and on vesting include re-invested dividends on the shares vested.
The total vesting of the first tranche was 155,695 shares at 4.91 on 22 February 2011.
The remaining award, noted above, vested on 7 February 2013, the fifth anniversary of the award at 4.58. f Dr Brian Gilvary was conditionally awarded shares under the Executive Performance Plan prior to his appointment as a director.
The vesting of these shares is not subject to further performance conditions.
g Dr Brian Gilvary was conditionally awarded shares under the Competitive Performance Plan prior to his appointment as a director.
The vesting of these shares is subject to performance conditions.
h Potential maximum of performance shares reect actual service during performance period on a pro-rated basis.
DAB Deferred Annual Bonus Plan.
a The market price of ordinary shares on 8 March 2012 was 4.94 and for ADSs was $47.11.
b Bob Dudley and Dr Byron Grote received awards in the form of ADSs.
c Dr Brian Gilvary was granted the shares under the DAB prior to his appointment as a director.
The vesting of these shares is not subject to further performance conditions and he receives deferred shares at each scrip payment date as part of his election choice.
During 2012 the highest market prices were 5.12 and $48.34 respectively and the lowest market prices were 3.60 and $36.25 respectively.
BP SOP BP Share Option Plan.
These options were granted to Bob Dudley prior to his appointment as a director and are not subject to performance conditions.
EXEC Executive Share Option Scheme.
These options were granted to Iain Conn prior to his appointment as a director and are not subject to performance conditions.
These options were granted to Dr Brian Gilvary prior to his appointment as a director and are not subject to performance conditions.
SAYE Save As You Earn employee share scheme.
a Numbers shown are ADSs under option.
Closing market price for information.
Shares were retained after exercise of options.
144 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
