2013 remuneration policy Overview Remuneration policy summary Component Policy and opportunity 2013 operation and performance metrics Salary Base salaries should be competitive relative to relevant Salaries as at 1 January 2013 are: Bob Dudley $1,751,000, market peer groups and are normally reviewed annually.
Annual bonus Annual bonus should be based on performance relative Bonus measures for 2013 are: to measures and targets reecting the annual plan, which t 4BGFUZ BOE operational risk management 30%.
in turn reects the strategic priorities of the company.
Achieving plan results should equate to on-target bonus.
On-target bonus is set at 150% of salary for executive directors with a maximum of 225% of salary.
Downstream net income per barrel.
No change from last year on safety and operational risk management.
Weight on value creation increased from 50% last year by eliminating rebuilding trust as a measure.
Deferred bonus A portion of annual bonus should be paid in shares and One-third of annual bonus is deferred on a mandatory basis deferred to add long-term sustainability and shareholder and a further one-third can be deferred on a voluntary basis.
alignment to short-term performance achievement.
All deferred shares are matched on a one-for-one basis.
All deferred and matched shares vest after three years contingent on an assessment of safety and environmental sustainability over the three-year deferral period.
Performance shares A large portion of total remuneration for executive directors The 2013-2015 share element will vest based equally on the should be tied to the long-term performance of the company.
following three performance metrics: Shares to a value of 5.5 times salary for the group chief t 5PUBM TIBSFIPMEFS SFUVSO WFSTVT PJM NBKPST executive and 4 times salary for the other executive directors t 0QFSBUJOH DBTI nPX are normally awarded annually.
t 4USBUFHJD JNQFSBUJWFT Vesting of the shares after three years is dependent on Reserves replacement versus oil majors.
performance relative to measures reecting the strategic priorities of the company.
Those shares that vest are held for an additional three-year Major project delivery.
retention period, after payment of tax on vesting.
Executive directors are expected to develop a personal shareholding of five times salary before shares are released.
No change from last year with the exception of major project delivery replacing rebuilding trust as one of the strategic imperatives, to align with strategy.
Pension and other Executive directors should participate in the normal company Both UK and US executive directors remain on dened benefit benets pension and benefit schemes applying in their home pension plans.
UK directors, as for all UK employees who countries.
exceed the annual allowance set by legislation, may receive a cash supplement in lieu of future service pension accrual.
See pages 28-29 for how our bonus measures for 2012 and 2013 are directly linked to business KPIs.
136 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
