borrowing power of the board may only be affected by amending the Memorandum and Articles of Association Articles of Association.
The following summarizes certain provisions of the companys Remuneration of non-executive directors shall be determined in the Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law.
This aggregate by resolution of the shareholders.
Remuneration of executive summary is qualied in its entirety by reference to the UK Companies Act directors is determined by the remuneration committee.
This committee 2006 Act and the companys Memorandum and Articles of Association.
is made up of non-executive directors only.
There is no requirement of For information on where investors can obtain copies of the share ownership for a directors qualication.
Memorandum and Articles of Association see Documents on display on page 159. Dividend rights: other rights to share in company At the AGM held on 17 April 2008 shareholders voted to adopt new profits: capital calls Articles of Association, largely to take account of changes in UK company law brought about by the Act.
Further amendments to the Articles of If recommended by the directors of BP, BP shareholders may, by Association were approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 15 April resolution, declare dividends but no such dividend may be declared in 2010.
There have been no further amendments to the Articles of excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
also pay interim dividends without obtaining shareholder approval.
No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for distribution, as Objects and purposes determined under IFRS and the Act.
Dividends on ordinary shares are payable only after payment of dividends on BP preference shares.
Any BP is incorporated under the name BP p. l. c. and is registered in England dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years from the date of declaration and Wales with the registered number 102498.
The provisions regulating of such dividend shall be forfeited and reverts to BP.
the operations of the company, known as its objects, were historically stated in a companys memorandum.
The Act abolished the need to have The directors have the power to declare and pay dividends in any currency object provisions and so at the AGM held on 15 April 2010 shareholders provided that a sterling equivalent is announced.
It is not the companys approved the removal of its objects clause together with all other intention to change its current policy of paying dividends in US dollars.
provisions of its Memorandum that, by virtue of the Act, are treated as At the companys AGM held on 15 April 2010, shareholders approved the forming part of the companys Articles of Association.
introduction of a Scrip Dividend Programme Programme and to include provisions in the Articles of Association to enable the company to operate Directors the Programme.
The Programme enables ordinary shareholders and The business and affairs of BP shall be managed by the directors.
The BP ADS holders to elect to receive new fully paid ordinary shares or companys Articles of Association provide that directors may be appointed BP ADSs in the case of BP ADS holders instead of cash.
The operation of by the existing directors or by the shareholders in a general meeting.
Any the Programme is always subject to the directors decision to make the person appointed by the directors will hold ofce only until the next scrip offer available in respect of any particular dividend.
Should the general meeting and will then be eligible for re-election by the directors decide not to offer the scrip in respect of any particular dividend, shareholders.
There is no requirement for a director to retire on reaching cash will automatically be paid instead.
Apart from shareholders rights to share in BPs profits by dividend if any The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a director voting is declared or announced, the Articles of Association provide that the in respect of any contract or arrangement in which the director has a directors may set aside: material interest other than by virtue of such directors interest in shares in the company.
However, in the absence of some other material interest not t A special reserve fund out of the balance of profits each year to make up any deficit of cumulative dividend on the BP preference shares.
indicated below, a director is entitled to vote and to be counted in a quorum for the purpose of any vote relating to a resolution concerning the t A general reserve out of the balance of profits each year, which shall be following matters: applicable for any purpose to which the profits of the company may properly be applied.
This may include capitalization of such sum, t The giving of security or indemnity with respect to any money lent or pursuant to an ordinary shareholders resolution, and distribution to obligation taken by the director at the request or benefit of the company shareholders as if it were distributed by way of a dividend on the or any of its subsidiaries.
ordinary shares or in paying up in full unissued ordinary shares for t Any proposal in which the director is interested, concerning the allotment and distribution as bonus shares.
underwriting of company securities or debentures or the giving of any Any such sums so deposited may be distributed in accordance with the security to a third party for a debt or obligation of the company or any of manner of distribution of dividends as described above.
t Any proposal concerning any other company in which the director is Holders of shares are not subject to calls on capital by the company, interested, directly or indirectly whether as an officer or shareholder or provided that the amounts required to be paid on issue have been paid off.
otherwise provided that the director and persons connected with such All shares are fully paid.
director are not the holder or holders of 1% or more of the voting interest in the shares of such company.
Voting rights t Any proposal concerning the purchase or maintenance of any insurance The Articles of Association of the company provide that voting on policy under which the director may benefit.
resolutions at a shareholders meeting will be decided on a poll other than resolutions of a procedural nature, which may be decided on a show of The Act requires a director of a company who is in any way interested in a hands.
If voting is on a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or contract or proposed contract with the company to declare the nature of by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held and two votes for the directors interest at a meeting of the directors of the company.
The every 5 in nominal amount of BP preference shares held.
If voting is on a denition of interest includes the interests of spouses, children, show of hands, each shareholder who is present at the meeting in person companies and trusts.
The Act also requires that a director must avoid a or whose duly appointed proxy is present in person will have one vote, situation where a director has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest regardless of the number of shares held, unless a poll is requested.
that conicts, or possibly may conict, with the companys interests.
The Shareholders do not have cumulative voting rights.
Act allows directors of public companies to authorize such conicts where appropriate, if a companys Articles of Association so permit.
BPs Articles Holders of record of ordinary shares may appoint a proxy, including a of Association permit the authorization of such conicts.
The directors beneficial owner of those shares, to attend, speak and vote on their behalf may exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, except that at any shareholders meeting.
the amount remaining undischarged of all moneys borrowed by the Record holders of BP ADSs are also entitled to attend, speak and vote at company shall not, without approval of the shareholders, exceed the any shareholders meeting of BP by the appointment by the approved amount paid up on the share capital plus the aggregate of the amount of depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. of them as proxies in respect of the capital and revenue reserves of the company.
Variation of the the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Each such proxy may also 150 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Corporate governance appoint a proxy.
Alternatively, holders of BP ADSs are entitled to vote by Disclosure of interests in shares supplying their voting instructions to the depositary, who will vote the The Act permits a public company to give notice to any person whom the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs in accordance with their company believes to be or, at any time during the three years prior to the instructions.
issue of the notice, to have been interested in its voting shares requiring Proxies may be delivered electronically.
them to disclose certain information with respect to those interests.
Failure to supply the information required may lead to disenfranchisement Matters are transacted at shareholders meetings by the proposing and of the relevant shares and a prohibition on their transfer and receipt of passing of resolutions, of which there are two types: ordinary or special.
dividends and other payments in respect of those shares.
In this context An annual general meeting must be held once in every year.
the term interest is widely dened and will generally include an interest An ordinary resolution requires the afrmative vote of a majority of the of any kind whatsoever in voting shares, including any interest of a holder votes of those persons voting at a meeting at which there is a quorum.
A special resolution requires the afrmative vote of not less than three-fourths of the persons voting at a meeting at which there is a quorum.
Any AGM requires 21 days notice.
The notice period for a general meeting is 14 days subject to the company obtaining annual shareholder approval, failing which, a 21-day notice period will apply.
Liquidation rights: redemption provisions In the event of a liquidation of BP, after payment of all liabilities and applicable deductions under UK laws and subject to the payment of secured creditors, the holders of BP preference shares would be entitled to the sum of i the capital paid up on such shares plus, ii accrued and unpaid dividends and iii a premium equal to the higher of a 10% of the capital paid up on the BP preference shares and b the excess of the average market price over par value of such shares on the LSE during the previous six months.
The remaining assets if any would be divided pro rata among the holders of ordinary shares.
Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the holders of any class of shares, BP may issue any share with such preferred, deferred or other special rights, or subject to such restrictions as the shareholders by resolution determine or, in the absence of any such resolutions, by determination of the directors, and may issue shares that are to be or may be redeemed.
Variation of rights The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the consent in writing of holders of 75% of the shares of that class or on the adoption of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles of Association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that the quorum with respect to a meeting to change the rights attached to the preference shares is 10% or more of the shares of that class, and the quorum to change the rights attached to the ordinary shares is one-third or more of the shares of that class.
Shareholders meetings and notices Shareholders must provide BP with a postal or electronic address in the UK to be entitled to receive notice of shareholders meetings.
Holders of BP ADSs are entitled to receive notices under the terms of the deposit agreement relating to BP ADSs.
The substance and timing of notices are described on page 150 under the heading Voting rights.
Under the Act, the AGM of shareholders must be held within the six-month period once every year.
All general meetings shall be held at a time and place determined by the directors within the UK.
If any shareholders meeting is adjourned for lack of quorum, notice of the time and place of the meeting may be given in any lawful manner, including electronically.
Powers exist for action to be taken either before or at the meeting by authorized ofcers to ensure its orderly conduct and safety of those attending.
Limitations on voting and shareholding There are no limitations imposed by English law or the companys Memorandum or Articles of Association on the right of non-residents or foreign persons to hold or vote the companys ordinary shares or BP ADSs, other than limitations that would generally apply to all of the shareholders and limitations applicable to certain countries and persons subject to EU economic sanctions.
Corporate governance 151 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 152 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
