Strategy Board effectiveness The evolution and development of the groups strategy was discussed at each of the regular meetings of the board during the year.
These Induction and board learning discussions were held against the background of the steps being taken to resolve uncertainties in the US and Russia.
More detailed discussions on On joining BP, non-executive directors are given a tailored induction long-term strategic options were held at two strategy away-days in 2012. programme.
This includes one-to-one meetings with management, the Key strategic elements examined included North American gas, Russia, external auditors and site visits to operations.
The induction will also cover technology and biofuels in Brazil.
The board also reviewed the companys the board committees that a director will join.
During the year induction planning methodology and strategy development process, looking at programmes were organized for Andrew Shilston and Professor Dame energy market structures, long-term price ranges and the assumptions Ann Dowling.
An example of the induction programme given to recently used for BPs investment evaluations.
appointed non-executive directors is set out below.
Assurance Director induction programme The board received regular updates during the year on legal issues, in particular on litigation and enquiries resulting from events in the Gulf of Board and governance Mexico.
It examined the delivery of major projects and the effectiveness t BPs board governance model, directors duties, interests and of investment and received a review of BPs integrated supply and trading potential conicts.
The board assessed the effectiveness of the groups system of internal controls and risk management and reviewed its financial performance.
BPs business It received an update on the progress of BPs change management t Upstream exploration, development, production, overview of our programme, implemented at the end of 2010, and reviewed the work of operations.
the central programme management ofce established to ensure there is t Downstream.
an integrated, company-wide approach to the change programme and to minimize disruption in the businesses.
The board also received a report t Alternative Energy.
from Duane Wilson, the independent expert appointed by the board to t Strategy and planning.
provide an objective assessment of BPs progress in implementing the t BPs performance relative to its competitors.
recommendations of the BP US Reneries Independent Review Panel.
Functional input Risk The board and its monitoring committees audit, SEEAC and Gulf of t Finance and tax.
Mexico monitored the group risks which had been allocated following the t Controls, external auditors and internal audit.
boards review of the annual plan at the end of 2011.
The annual plan and t Human resources.
the group strategy are central to BPs risk management programme as t Ethics and compliance.
they provide a framework for the board to consider significant risks and manage the groups overall risk exposure as well as underpin the model of t Safety and operational risk S&OR, BPs operating management system OMS and environmental performance.
delegation and assurance for the board in its oversight of executive management and other activities.
The group risks allocated to and reviewed by the board over the year t Engineering.
included risks associated with the global macroeconomic outlook, the t Trading.
delivery of BPs 10-point plan, the groups exposure to Russia, crisis management, reputational impact and organizational capability.
The board The boards learning is continued through board and committee briengs held a mid-year discussion to consider any changes required to the and site visits.
In 2012, the board received briengs on key aspects of allocation of group risks and to confirm the schedule for oversight and BPs activities, including the competitive context for the company and governance of these risks by the board and its committees.
BPs projections for energy supply and demand.
At the board meeting in Houston, non-executive directors were given the opportunity to meet Reputation BPs wider US leadership group at informal lunch and dinner events.
In the The board discussed the risks relating to the reputation of the group autumn, the board met leading US political gures in advance of the US globally, but in particular relating to the US, and also the processes the presidential elections.
company has in place to manage these risks.
The result of an external reputation survey was considered, which examined BPs reputation in key Non-executive directors are expected to attend at least one site visit per markets, including the UK and US.
From an internal perspective, feedback year.
During 2012 the board made a number of visits, including to BPs from the regular, global survey of employees was examined following the Texas paraxylene site, fracking operations in East Texas, the Thunderhorse launch of BPs renewed values and updated code of conduct at the end of platform in the Gulf of Mexico and the Bunceeld terminal in the UK.
The 2011. chairman visited the Deepwater Gunashli platform and Sangachal terminal in Azerbaijan, the Kinneil terminal in the North Sea and the Greater In addition to understanding feedback from external focus groups and Plutonio oating production, storage and ofoading facility in Angola.
He employees, the board received regular reports which outlined shareholder also held employee town halls and met with regional leadership teams sentiment on the company.
This includes analyst reports, the annual whilst visiting BPs ofces in Azerbaijan, Tokyo, the North Sea and Angola.
investor audit, feedback from shareholders on voting on the companys resolutions at the AGM and follow-up discussions post investor After each site visit, the board or appropriate committee is briefed on the roadshows and other one-to-one shareholder meetings see shareholder impressions gained by directors attending the visit.
114 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
