Corporate governance 2013 remuneration policy in more depth Total remuneration is made up of the five components summarized in the table opposite.
Each of these is explained in more detail in this section of the report.
The total remuneration opportunity for executive directors is strongly performance based and weighted to the long term.
As shown below over 90% of the group chief executives total direct remuneration opportunity that is at maximum requires the achievement of demanding performance requirements, and over 80% is long term three years in the case of deferred bonus and six years for the performance shares.
Executive directors paid in US$ thousand Executive directors paid in UK thousand Salary Cash bonus Deferred bonus including match Performance shares Salary Cash bonus Deferred bonus including match Performance shares 20,000 10,000 15,000 7,500 10,000 5,000 5,000 2,500 Min On target Max Min On target Max Min On target Max Min On target Max Bob Dudley Dr Byron Grote Iain Conn Dr Brian Gilvary The two charts above provide scenarios for what executive directors may Maximum amounts are based on the following assumptions: get paid for different levels of performance, consistent with the draft UK t Current salary.
Dr Byron Grotes chart shows t Cash bonus reecting maximum level of 225% of salary of which full-year values for illustration and does not reect the impact of his one-third is paid in cash.
announced retirement from the board.
t Deferred bonus reecting two-thirds of maximum bonus of 225% The minimum amount reects current base salary which is the only part which is deferred on a mandatory and voluntary basis, and matched of total direct remuneration that is not performance related.
On-target amounts are based on the following assumptions: t Performance shares that fully vest amounting to 5.5 times salary for the group chief executive and 4 times salary for other executive directors.
t Share prices are assumed to remain constant for calculation purposes.
t Cash bonus reecting on-target level of 150% of salary of which two-thirds is paid in cash.
t Deferred bonus reecting one-third of on-target bonus of 150% which is deferred on a mandatory basis and matched on a one-for-one basis.
t Performance shares that vest to a value of one half of the maximum.
Salary 2013 policy As most components of total remuneration are determined as multiples of relevant US companies.
They also include similar consideration of the salary, the remuneration committee makes careful reviews of salaries, salary treatment throughout the company, as well as company normally annually.
These reviews include thorough consideration of other performance and investor perspectives.
It is expected that salaries for large UK and Europe-based global companies, other oil majors, and executive directors will be reviewed mid-year in this context.
Corporate governance 137 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Annual bonus 2013 policy Operation Performance measures For 2013, all executive directors will again be eligible for a total bonus The measures used to determine bonus results ow directly from the including deferral of 150% of salary at target and 225% at maximum.
groups annual plan which reects the strategic priorities of safety and Bob Dudleys bonus will be based entirely on group measures as will operational risk management, and reinforcing value creation.
Dr Brian Gilvarys and Dr Byron Grotes.
Iain Conn will have 70% of his A central strategic priority continues to be safety and managing risk.
bonus based on group results and 30% on his business segment.
As last year, performance in this area will account for 30% of group The group strategy provides the overall context for the companys key results for bonus purposes.
The primary measures used to assess performance indicators and the focus for the annual plan.
From this, performance will be loss of primary containment, process safety tier 1 measures and targets are selected at the start of the year for senior events, and recordable injury frequency.
The first two of these track managers, including executive directors, to reect the key priorities of the process safety while the third reects personal safety and this balance business.
Measures typically include a range of financial and operating gives an overall perspective on performance.
The committee will also metrics as well as those relating to safety and environment.
seek the input of the safety, ethics and environment assurance committee SEEAC to determine if there are any other factors or metrics that should The committee has a preference for quantiable, hard targets that can be be considered in arriving at a final assessment at year end.
factually measured and objectively assessed according to well understood principles and denitions.
Where it is more appropriate to have more A second set of measures will track performance relative to value creation qualitative measures, the information that will be reviewed to arrive at and account for 70% of group results for bonus purposes.
This reects conclusions is established at the start of the year.
Targets are set so that increased emphasis on restoring value from last year when it accounted achieving plan levels of performance results in on-target bonus.
The rebuilding trust set of measures, accounting for 20% last year, will not feature in 2013.
Three financial measures for value creation At the end of each year, performance is assessed relative to the measures and include operating cash ow, underlying replacement cost profit, and total targets established at the start of the year, adjusted for any material changes in cash cost.
Three additional operating metrics include upstream major the market environment predominantly oil prices.
project delivery, upstream planned deferrals, and Downstream net income As in past years, in addition to the specic bonus metrics, the committee per barrel.
This set of metrics provides a balance of financial and operating will also review the underlying performance of the group in light of the priorities, as well as significant continuity from last year.
overall business plan, competitors results, analysts reports, and seek The Downstream segment will include specic safety metrics for the input from other committees on relevant aspects.
Value metrics will include availability, efficiency, and profitability committee may make adjustments to a straight formulaic result based on measures, as well as divestments and major project delivery.
The committee considers that this informed judgement is important to establishing a fair overall assessment.
The rigorous process followed by the committee has resulted in bonus levels varying considerably over the past several years, reecting the changing fortunes of the company during the period.
The chart below shows the average annual bonus result before any deferral and relative to an on-target level for executive directors for 2012 as well as the previous five years.
History of annual bonus results On-target Average actual result 200 150 100 50 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 138 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 % of target Corporate governance Deferred bonus 2013 policy The structure of deferred bonus, paid in shares, places increased focus on long-term alignment with shareholders, and reinforces the critical importance of maintaining high safety and environmental standards.
It effectively translates the outcome of a portion of the annual bonus into a long-term plan with additional performance hurdles.
As shown below, the performance results of 2013 will form the basis for determining the deferred bonus in 2014.
Timeline for 2013 deferred bonus 2013 2015 2016 Cash 3 year deferral Total Mandatory Performance indicative deferral bonus Converted to Voluntary 2017 vest based shares and matched 2014 deferral on performance and deferred Operation Performance measures For 2013, as last year, one-third of the annual bonus will be deferred Since 2010, the deferred bonus has been subject to a safety and on a mandatory basis into shares for three years.
Under the rules of the environmental sustainability hurdle, and this will again be applied plan, the average share price over the three days following announcement this coming year.
of full-year results is used to determine the number of shares.
Deferred If the committee assesses that there has been a material deterioration shares are matched by the company on a one-for-one basis.
in safety and environmental metrics, or there have been major incidents Executive directors may defer a further one-third of their annual bonus revealing underlying weaknesses in safety and environmental into shares on a voluntary basis, which will be capable of vesting, and management, then it may conclude that shares should vest in part, or not will qualify for matching, on the same basis as set out above.
In reaching its conclusion, the committee will obtain advice from the SEEAC.
Both deferred and matched shares will vest in early 2017 contingent on an assessment of safety and environmental sustainability over the three-year The committee believes that this safety and environmental hurdle is deferral period.
Where shares vest, the executive director will also receive appropriate for several reasons.
First, high standards in this area are additional shares representing the value of the re-invested dividends.
an important priority of BPs strategy.
Second, maintaining safety and environmental standards over the long-term is a good qualitative determinant of the sustainability of the business.
Third, this non-financial hurdle will complement the financial and operational performance conditions applicable to performance share awards.
Corporate governance 139 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Performance Performance shares 2013 policy The performance share element reects the committees policy that a large proportion of total remuneration is tied to long-term performance.
A three-year performance period, combined with a further three-year retention period for those shares that vest, creates a six-year incentive structure which is designed to ensure executive interests are aligned with those of shareholders.
Timeline for 2013-2015 share element 2013 2014 2017 2013 2018 3 year 3 year 3 year performance performance retention period period period Vesting of shares based Award Release 2015 2016 2019 on performance Operation For the relative measures, TSR and the reserves replacement ratio, Performance shares are awarded conditionally at the start of each year.
the comparator group will consist of ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and Chevron.
For 2013, as last year, shares have been awarded to a value of 5.5 times This group can be altered if circumstances change, for example, if there is salary for the group chief executive and 4 times salary for the other significant consolidation in the industry.
While a narrow group, it continues executive directors the maximum allowed under the plan.
to represent the comparators that both shareholders and management use in assessing relative performance.
Performance shares will only vest to the extent that performance conditions, as described below, are met.
The committee also has an The TSR will be calculated as the share price performance over the overriding discretion, in exceptional circumstances, to reduce the number three-year period, assuming dividends are reinvested.
All share prices of shares that vest.
will be averaged over the three-month period before the beginning and end of the performance period.
They will be measured in US dollars.
Where shares vest, the executive director will receive additional shares representing the value of the re-invested dividends on those shares.
The reserves replacement ratio is dened according to industry standard sufficient shares may be sold at vesting to discharge tax liabilities.
specications and its calculation is audited.
As in previous years, the methodology used for the relative measures will rank each of the five The remaining vested shares will normally be subject to a compulsory oil majors on each measure.
Performance shares for each component retention period of a further three years.
Furthermore, these shares will will vest at levels of 100%, 70% and 35% respectively, for performance only be released once the companys minimum shareholding target of five equivalent to first, second and third rank.
No shares will vest for fourth times salary has been met.
The history of vesting of the share element for the past plan and the Operating cash ow has been identied as a core strategic priority of five previous ones is shown below, reecting both demanding the company.
Targets have been established reecting agreed plans, performance conditions and poor company performance during this $100 bbl oil price and other normal operating assumptions.
Finally the remaining strategic imperatives relating to process safety and History of share element vesting major project delivery will be determined by a mixture of internal targets 100 and external assessment.
In the case of safety, loss of primary containments, process safety tier 1 incidents and recordable injury 80 frequency will provide the key factual data as well as the input of the 60 SEEAC.
Major project delivery component will be based on the commissioning success of major projects.
40 The committee considers that this combination of quantitative 20 and qualitative measures reects the long-term value creation priorities of 2005-07 2006-08 2007-09 2008-10 2009-11 2010-12 the company as well as the key underpinnings for business sustainability.
As in previous years, the committee may exercise its discretion, in a 2013 performance measures reasonable and informed manner, to adjust vesting levels upwards or Performance conditions for the 2013-2015 share element will be aligned downwards if it concludes that the formulaic approach does not reect with the companys strategic agenda which continues to focus on value the true underlying health and performance of BPs business relative to its creation and reinforcing safety and operational risk management.
It will explain any adjustments in the directors remuneration report of shares will be based one-third on BPs total shareholder return TSR following vesting, in line with its commitment to transparency.
compared to other oil majors, reecting the central importance of restoring the value of the company.
A further third will be based on the operating cash ow of the company, reecting a central element of value creation.
The final third will be based on a set of strategic imperatives: in particular, reserves replacement, safety and operational risk, and major project delivery.
140 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 % of maximum vested Corporate governance Pensions 2013 policy Executive directors are eligible to participate in the appropriate pension As of 31 December 2012, Dr Byron Grote will also receive a benefit from schemes that apply in their home country and that follow national norms the BP Supplemental Executive Retirement benefit Plan SERB.
The in terms of structure and levels.
Details of pension accrual are set out in benefit payable under this supplemental plan is based on a target of 1.3% the table on page 133 and take into account the total amount that could be of final average earnings including for this purpose base salary plus cash payable under relevant plans as described further below.
bonus and bonus deferred into a compulsory or voluntary award under the deferred matching element of the EDIP for each year of service without US executive directors regard for tax limits less benets paid under all other BP US qualied Pension benets are provided to Bob Dudley and Dr Byron Grote through and non-qualied pension arrangements.
The benefit payable under SERB a combination of tax-qualied and non-qualied benefit plans, consistent is unreduced at age 60 but reduced by 5% per year if separation occurs with US tax regulations, as applicable.
Benets payable under this plan are unfunded and The BP Retirement Accumulation Plan US pension plan is a US taxtherefore paid from corporate assets.
As of 31 December 2012, Bob qualied plan that features a cash balance formula and includes Dudley will not receive a benefit from this plan due to the value of his grandfathering provisions under final average pay formulas for certain benets under the other plans.
members of acquired companies, including Bob Dudley, who participated UK executive directors in the predecessor Amoco pension plan, which was merged into the BP Iain Conn and Dr Brian Gilvary are members of the regular BP pension US pension plan effective 1 July 2000. scheme in respect of service prior to 1 April 2011.
The core benets Bob Dudley was an active member of the Employee Retirement Plan of under this scheme are non-contributory.
They include a pension accrual Amoco Corporation on 30 June 2000 and is classied as an Amoco of 1 60th of basic salary for each year of service, up to a maximum of heritage participant under the US pension plan.
As with all Amoco two-thirds of final basic salary and a dependants benefit of two-thirds of heritage participants, he is entitled to receive the greater of a the cash the members pension.
The scheme pension is not integrated with state balance benefit under the US pension plan: and b the sum of i his pension benets.
Higher accrual rules are offered to employees on the accrued benefit as of 31 December 2012 under the Amoco heritage plan payment of personal contributions.
formula described below and ii a new cash balance account Since 1 April 2011 the UK directors, Iain Conn and Dr Brian Gilvary, have established 1 January 2013 with a zero balance.
Bob Dudleys benefit received a cash supplement in lieu of future service pension accrual in under the Amoco heritage plan is based on his average annual eligible the BP pension scheme.
This follows the reduction in the annual earnings being base salary plus cash bonus, subject to the IRS allowance applicable to plans such as the BP pension scheme in 2011. compensation limit over the better of i the last consecutive 36 months Some employees, including the UK directors, have had to cease pension of benefit service preceding his termination date, and ii the highest three accrual for future service to remain within the new annual allowance.
For consecutive calendar years out of his last 10 years of benefit service.
Bob all these employees the cash supplement is equal to 35% of basic salary.
Dudleys retirement benefit under the US pension plan is unreduced at age 60 but reduced by 5% per year if taken before age 60.
Until the end of March 2011, pension benets in excess of the individual lifetime allowance set by legislation were paid via an unapproved, Dr Byron Grote was an active member of the BP America Retirement unfunded pension arrangement provided directly by the company.
From Accumulation Plan on 30 June 2000 and is classied as a BP heritage April 2011 only increases in accrued benets due to increases in salary in participant.
As a BP heritage participant, he is entitled to receive the cash excess of the individual lifetime allowance are covered by their balance benefit under the US pension plan with additional payment arrangements.
Both Iain Conn and Dr Brian Gilvary are covered under this options.
BP also provides a number of non-qualied pension plans in which Bob The rules of the BP pension scheme were amended in 2006 such that Dudley and Dr Byron Grote participate.
the normal retirement age is 65.
Prior to 1 December 2006, scheme Bob Dudley will receive a benefit under the TNK-BP Supplemental members could retire on or after age 60 without reduction.
Retirement Plan which is a lump sum benefit based on the same Both Iain Conn and Dr Brian Gilvary were in service at 1 December 2006, calculation as his benefit under the US pension plan but reecting his and therefore special early retirement terms apply to them.
In the event service and earnings at TNK-BP.
of retirement between 60 and 65, they are entitled to an immediate The BP Excess Compensation Retirement Plan excess compensation unreduced pension.
In the event of retirement between 55 and 60, they plan provides a supplemental benefit which is the difference between a are entitled to an immediate unreduced pension in respect of the the benefit accrual under the US pension plan and the TNK-BP proportion of their benefit for service up to 30 November 2006, and are Supplement Retirement Plan without regard to the IRS compensation subject to such reduction as the scheme actuary certies in respect of limit including for this purpose base salary, cash bonus and bonus the period of service after 1 December 2006.
For retirees leaving in deferred into a compulsory or voluntary award under the deferred circumstances approved by the committee the scheme actuary has to matching element of the EDIP, and b the actual benefit payable under date applied a reduction of 3% per annum in respect of the period of the US pension plan and the TNK-BP Supplemental Retirement Plan, service from 1 December 2006 up to the leaving date: a greater reduction applying the IRS compensation limit.
The benefit calculation under the can be applied in other circumstances.
Those leaving before 55 are heritage Amoco formula includes a reduction of 5% per year if taken entitled to a deferred pension that becomes payable from 55 or later, on before age 60. the basis set out above.
Irrespective of the above, an individual leaving in circumstances of total incapacity is entitled to an immediate unreduced Dr Byron Grote will receive a benefit under the BP America Inc. pension as from the leaving date.
Supplemental Retirement Accumulation Plan SRAP, which is a lump sum cash balance that only grows with interest based on the greater of the 30-year US Treasury bond interest rate or 5%.
Other benets 2013 policy Executive directors are eligible to participate in regular employee benefit plans and in all-employee share saving schemes applying in their home countries.
Benets in kind are not pensionable.
Corporate governance 141 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
