Internal Control Revised Guidance Corporate governance practices In the US, BP ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
for Directors Turnbull The significant differences between BPs corporate governance practices In discharging its responsibility for the companys risk management and as a UK company and those required by NYSE listing standards for US internal control systems under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the companies are listed as follows: board, through its governance principles, requires the group chief executive to operate with a comprehensive system of controls and Independence internal audit to identify and manage the risks that are material to BP.
The BP has adopted a robust set of board governance principles, which reect governance principles are reviewed periodically by the board and are the UK Corporate Governance Code and its principles-based approach to consistent with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code corporate governance.
As such, the way in which BP makes including principle C. 2 risk management and internal control.
determinations of directors independence differs from the NYSE rules.
The board has an established process by which the effectiveness of the BPs board governance principles require that all non-executive directors system of internal control which includes the risk management system is be determined by the board to be independent in character and reviewed as required by provision C. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance judgement and free from any business or other relationship which could Code.
This process enables the board and its committees to consider the materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
The BP board system of internal control being operated for managing significant risks, has determined that, in its judgement, all of the non-executive directors including strategic, safety and operational and compliance and control are independent.
In doing so, however, the board did not explicitly take risks, throughout the year.
Material joint ventures and associates have not into consideration the independence requirements outlined in the NYSEs been dealt with as part of the group in this process.
As part of this process, the board and the audit, Gulf of Mexico and safety, ethics and environment assurance committees requested, Committees received and reviewed reports from executive management, including BP has a number of board committees that are broadly comparable in management of the business segments, divisions and functions, at their purpose and composition to those required by NYSE rules for domestic regular meetings.
For instance, BP has a chairmans rather than executive committee, nomination rather than nominating corporate governance In considering the systems, the board noted that such systems are committee and remuneration rather than compensation committee.
BP designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve also has an audit committee, which NYSE rules require for both US business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, companies and foreign private issuers.
These committees are composed assurance against material misstatement or loss.
solely of non-executive directors whom the board has determined to be During the year, the board through its committees regularly reviewed with independent, in the manner described above.
executive management processes whereby risks are identied, evaluated and managed.
These processes were in place for the year under review, The BP board governance principles prescribe the composition, main tasks and requirements of each of the committees see the board remain current at the date of this report and accord with the guidance on the UK Corporate Governance Code provided by the Financial Reporting committee reports on pages 120-126.
BP has not, therefore, adopted separate charters for each committee.
In December 2012, the board considered the groups significant risks within the context of the annual plan presented by the group chief Under US securities law and the listing standards of the NYSE, BP is executive.
required to have an audit committee that satisfies the requirements of Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act and Section 303A.
06 of the NYSE A joint meeting of the audit and safety, ethics and environment assurance Listed Company Manual.
BPs audit committee complies with these committees in January 2013 reviewed a report from the general auditor as requirements.
The BP audit committee does not have direct responsibility part of the boards annual review of the risk management and internal for the appointment, reappointment or removal of the independent control systems.
The report described the annual summary of internal auditors instead, it follows the UK Companies Act 2006 by making audits consideration of elements of BPs system of internal control over recommendations to the board on these matters for it to put forward for significant risks arising in the categories of strategic, safety and shareholder approval at the AGM.
operational and compliance and control and considered the control environment for the group.
The report also highlighted the results of audit One of the NYSEs additional requirements for the audit committee states work conducted during the year and the remedial actions taken by that at least one member of the audit committee is to have accounting or management in response to significant failings and weaknesses related financial management expertise.
The board determined that identied.
Brendan Nelson possessed such expertise and also possesses the During the year, these committees engaged with management, the financial and audit committee experiences set forth in both the UK Corporate Governance Code and SEC rules see Audit committee report general auditor and other monitoring and assurance providers such as the group ethics and compliance officer, head of safety and operational risk on pages 120-122.
Brendan Nelson is the audit committee financial expert as dened in Item 16A of Form 20-F. and the external auditor on a regular basis to monitor the management of risks.
significant incidents that occurred and managements response to Shareholder approval of equity compensation plans them were considered by the appropriate committee and reported to the board.
The NYSE rules for US companies require that shareholders must be given the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and In the boards view, the information it received was sufficient to enable it material revisions to those plans.
BP complies with UK requirements that to review the effectiveness of the companys system of internal control in are similar to the NYSE rules.
The board, however, does not explicitly take accordance with the Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors into consideration the NYSEs detailed denition of what are considered Turnbull.
Subject to determining any additional appropriate actions arising from items still in process, the board is satisfied that, where significant failings Code of ethics or weaknesses in internal controls were identied during the year, The NYSE rules require that US companies adopt and disclose a code of appropriate remedial actions were taken or are being taken.
business conduct and ethics for directors, ofcers and employees.
BP has adopted a code of conduct, which applies to all employees, and has board governance principles that address the conduct of directors.
In addition BP has adopted a code of ethics for senior financial ofcers as required by the SEC.
BP considers that these codes and policies address the matters specified in the NYSE rules for US companies.
148 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
