Board of directors As at 6 March 2013 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 1 Carl-Henric Svanberg 2 Bob Dudley 3 Iain Conn 4 Dr Brian Gilvary 5 Dr Byron Grote 6 Paul Anderson 7 Admiral Frank Bowman 8 Antony Burgmans KBE 9 Cynthia Carroll 10 George David 11 Ian Davis 12 Professor Dame Ann Dowling 13 Brendan Nelson 14 Phuthuma Nhleko 15 Andrew Shilston 104 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Corporate governance Paul Anderson Board of directors Current position Paul Anderson was appointed a non-executive director of BP on Carl-Henric Svanberg 1 February 2010.
Current position Board and committee activities Carl-Henric Svanberg is BPs chairman.
He was appointed a non-executive He is chairman of the safety, ethics and environment assurance director of BP on 1 September 2009 and became chairman on 1 January committee SEEAC and is a member of the chairmans, the Gulf of 2010.
Mexico and the nomination committees.
Board and committee activities Outside interests He chairs the chairmans and the nomination committees and attends the Paul Anderson is a non-executive director of BAE Systems PLC.
Gulf of Mexico and the remuneration committees.
Career Outside interests He was formerly chief executive at BHP Billiton and Duke Energy, where Carl-Henric Svanberg is chairman of AB Volvo.
he also served as chairman of the board.
Having previously been chief Career executive officer and managing director of BHP Limited and then BHP He spent his early career at Asea Brown Boveri and the Securitas Group, Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, he rejoined these latter two boards in before moving to the Assa Abloy Group as president and chief executive 2006 as a non-executive director, retiring on 31 January 2010.
he served as a non-executive director on a number of boards in the US and Australia and as chief executive officer of Pan Energy Corp. From 2003 until 31 December 2009, when he left to join BP, he was president and chief executive officer of Ericsson, also serving as the Relevant experience and skills chairman of Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB.
He was a Paul Anderson took the chair of the SEEAC in December 2012.
As chair non-executive director of Ericsson between 2009 and 2012.
He was he has continued the committees focus on safety matters both in appointed chairman and a member of the board of AB Volvo on 4 April meetings and through visits to the companys operations.
His broad 2012. experience of the global oil and gas industry and of the US business He is a member of the External Advisory Board of the Earth Institute at environment has benefited both the board, the SEEAC and the Gulf of Columbia University and a member of the Advisory Board of Harvard Mexico committee.
He has actively supported the work of the BP Kennedy School.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology MIT academy.
This global perspective has also enabled him to guide the work of the ad-hoc Relevant experience and skills Russia committee.
Carl-Henric Svanbergs career in international business, latterly as chief executive officer of Ericsson, is particularly relevant to BP globally.
During the year, in addition to leading the board, he has contributed to the work Admiral Frank Bowman of the Gulf of Mexico and the remuneration committees and has chaired Current position the nomination committee.
He has focused on succession within the executive team and amongst the non-executive directors.
He has Frank Bowman was appointed a non-executive director of BP on 8 November 2010. developed a well-balanced board that has contributed to BPs strategy and delivery of shareholder value.
Board and committee activities He is a member of the SEEAC and the chairmans and the Gulf of Mexico committees.
Bob Dudley Outside interests Current position and group responsibilities Frank Bowman is president of Strategic Decisions, LLC and a director of Bob Dudley is BPs group chief executive.
He was appointed an executive Morgan Stanley Mutual Funds, the American Shipbuilding Suppliers director of BP on 6 April 2009.
Association, and the Naval and Nuclear Technologies, LLP.
Outside interests Career Bob Dudley has no external appointments.
He joined the United States Navy in 1966.
During his naval service, he commanded the nuclear submarine USS City of Corpus Christi and the Career He joined Amoco Corporation in 1979, working in a variety of engineering USS Holland.
He served as a ag officer: as the Navys chief of personnel: on the joint staff as director of Political-Military Affairs: and as director of and commercial posts.
Between 1994 and 1997, he worked on corporate development in Russia.
In 1997, he became general manager for strategy the naval nuclear propulsion programme in the Department of the Navy and the Department of Energy for over eight years.
for Amoco and in 1999, following the merger between BP and Amoco, was appointed to a similar role in BP.
After his retirement as an Admiral in 2004, he was president and chief Between 1999 and 2000, he was executive assistant to the group chief executive officer of the Nuclear Energy Institute until 2008.
He served on executive, subsequently becoming group vice president for BPs the BP Independent Safety Review Panel and was a member of the BP Renewables and Alternative Energy activities.
In 2002, he became group America External Advisory Council.
He was appointed Honorary Knight vice president responsible for BPs upstream businesses in Russia, the Commander of the British Empire in 2005 by Queen Elizabeth II.
He was Caspian region, Angola, Algeria and Egypt.
also elected to the US National Academy of Engineering in 2009.
From 2003 to 2008, he was president and chief executive officer of Relevant experience and skills TNK-BP.
Frank Bowman has a deep knowledge of engineering coupled with exceptional experience in safety arising from his time with the US Navy On his return to BP in 2009 he was appointed to the BP board and and, later, the Nuclear Energy Institute.
His service on the BP Independent oversaw the groups activities in the Americas and Asia.
Between 23 June Safety Review Panel gave him direct experience of BPs safety aims and and 30 September 2010, he served as the president and chief executive requirements, particularly in the area of rening.
He makes a significant officer of BPs Gulf Coast Restoration Organization in the US.
He became contribution to the work of the SEEAC and the Gulf of Mexico committee.
group chief executive on 1 October 2010.
He has actively supported the work of the BP MIT academy.
Relevant experience and skills Bob Dudley has spent his entire career in the oil and gas industry.
His broad range of roles with Amoco and BP have given him substantial global experience.
This has been supplemented by his time as chief executive officer of TNK-BP.
He has performed strongly as BPs chief executive officer since his appointment in 2010.
Corporate governance 105 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Antony Burgmans KBE Iain Conn Current position Current position Antony Burgmans was appointed a non-executive director of BP on Iain Conn is BPs chief executive, Rening and Marketing.
He was 5 February 2004. appointed an executive director of BP on 1 July 2004.
Board and committee activities Group responsibilities He is chairman of the remuneration committee and is a member of the In addition to his position as chief executive, Rening and Marketing, he SEEAC and the chairmans and the nomination committees.
has regional responsibility for Europe, Southern Africa and Asia.
He also has responsibility for the BP brand and related matters.
Outside interests Antony Burgmans is a member of the supervisory boards of Akzo Nobel Outside interests N. V. AEGON N. V. and SHV Holdings N. V. and chairman of the Iain Conn is a non-executive director and the senior independent director supervisory board of TNT Express.
He is chairman of the Advisory Board of Imperial College Business School and a member of the Council of Imperial Career College.
He joined Unilever in 1972, holding a succession of marketing and sales posts, including, from 1988 until 1991, the chairmanship of PT Unilever Career Indonesia.
He joined BP Oil International in 1986, working in a variety of roles in oil trading, commercial rening and exploration before becoming, on the In 1991, he was appointed to the board of Unilever, becoming business merger between BP and Amoco in 1999, vice president of BP Amoco group president, ice cream and frozen foods, Europe in 1994, and Explorations mid-continent business unit.
chairman of Unilevers Europe committee, co-ordinating its European activities.
In 1998, he became vice chairman of Unilever NV and in 1999, At the end of 2000, he returned to London as group vice president and a chairman of Unilever NV and vice chairman of Unilever PLC.
In 2005, he member of the Rening and Marketing segments executive committee, became non-executive chairman of Unilever NV and Unilever PLC until his taking over responsibility in 2001 for BPs marketing operations in Europe.
In 2002 he was appointed chief executive of BP Petrochemicals.
Following his appointment to the board in 2004, he served for three years Relevant experience and skills Antony Burgmans executive career was in international production, as group executive officer, strategic resources, in which he had responsibility for a number of group functions and regions.
He was distribution and marketing.
Over the years he has made a significant contribution to the work of the board, adding insight to the areas of appointed chief executive, Rening and Marketing on 1 June 2007. reputation, brand and culture.
His global perspective has particular value Relevant experience and skills as chairman of the remuneration committee and also contributes to his Iain Conns career has given him extensive knowledge of a broad range of work on the SEEAC.
During the year he has led on internal board matters BPs businesses, particularly in the area of rening and marketing, which in support of the senior independent director.
His tenure and independent he has led since 2007.
In this last period he has successfully remodelled approach, demonstrated over many years in his work on SEEAC and the BPs downstream business.
He has deep knowledge of safety, nomination and remuneration committees, led the board to ask him to manufacturing, energy markets and technology.
chair the ad-hoc committee of the board dealing with issues relating to the sale of BPs share in TNK-BP.
His clarity of thought and his approach in evaluating the events of the last few years has led the board to conclude George David that he is still independent even though he has now served just over nine Current position years as a director.
His continued independence, together with his George David was appointed a non-executive director of BP on experience of the BP board and the need for an orderly board succession, 11 February 2008. means that the board has asked him to remain as a member of the BP board for a further period of three years.
Board and committee activities He is a member of the chairmans, the audit, the Gulf of Mexico and the remuneration committees.
Cynthia Carroll Outside interests Current position George David is vice-chairman of the Peterson Institute for International Cynthia Carroll was appointed a non-executive director of BP on 6 June Economics.
Career Board and committee activities He began his career with The Boston Consulting Group before joining the She is a member of the SEEAC and the chairmans and the nomination Otis Elevator Company in 1975.
He held various roles in Otis and later in committees.
United Technologies Corporation UTC, following Otiss merger with UTC Outside interests in 1976.
In 1992, he became UTCs chief operating officer.
He served as Cynthia Carroll is currently chief executive of Anglo American plc, the UTCs chief executive officer from 1994 until 2008 and as chairman from global mining group, chairman of Anglo Platinum Limited and chairman of 1997 until his retirement in 2009. fide Beers s. a.
She will relinquish these roles on 3 April 2013 and will step Relevant experience and skills down as a director of Anglo American, Anglo Platinum and fide Beers at George David has substantial global business and financial experience Anglo Americans AGM in April 2013. through his long career with UTC, a business with significant reliance on Career safety and technology.
He chairs BPs technology advisory council and She started her career with Amoco as a petroleum geologist in oil has brought insights from that task to the board.
In 1989, she joined Alcan Inc, where she spent 18 years His considerable knowledge of the US business environment benets before joining Anglo American in January 2007.
Starting in the business considerably the work of the Gulf of Mexico committee of which he development group of the Rolled Products Division in Alcan, she became is a member and his extensive financial and commercial knowledge president and chief executive officer of the Primary Metal Group, contributes to the work of the audit and the remuneration committees.
responsible for operations in more than 20 countries.
She has been chief executive of Anglo American plc since March 2007.
Relevant experience and skills Cynthia Carrolls leadership of global businesses, particularly in the extractive industry sector has enabled her to make a strong contribution to the work of the BP board and the SEEAC.
Her geo-political experience has been valuable during the course of the year as has her work on the nomination committee.
106 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Corporate governance Relevant experience and skills Ian Davis Dame Ann Dowling has a strong academic and engineering background.
Current position Ian Davis was appointed a non-executive director of BP on 2 April 2010.
Having initially joined the SEEAC, she is now also a member of the remuneration committee.
Her contributions on both of these committees Board and committee activities is valued as is her work with the BP technology advisory council, which He is chairman of the Gulf of Mexico committee and is a member of the she joined during the year.
chairmans, the nomination and the remuneration committees.
Outside interests Ian Davis is an independent non-executive director of Johnson & Johnson, Dr Brian Gilvary Inc. and a senior adviser to Apax Partners LLP.
He is also a non-executive Current position member of the UKs Cabinet Ofce.
He joined the Board of Rolls Royce Dr Brian Gilvary is BPs chief financial officer.
He was appointed an Plc on 1 March 2013 and will become chairman on 2 May 2013. executive director on 1 January 2012.
Career Group responsibilities He spent his early career at Bowater, moving to McKinsey & Company He has responsibility for BPs finance, planning, mergers and acquisitions, in 1979.
He was managing partner of McKinseys practice in the UK and treasury and information technology activities.
In 2003, he was appointed as chairman and worldwide managing director of McKinsey, serving in this capacity until Outside interests 2009.
During his career with McKinsey, he served as a consultant to a Dr Brian Gilvary has no external appointments.
range of global organizations across the private, public and not-for-profit Career sectors.
He retired as senior partner of McKinsey & Company on 30 July He joined BP in 1986, after obtaining a PhD in mathematics from the 2010.
Following a variety of roles in the Upstream, Relevant experience and skills Downstream and trading with jobs spanning across Europe and the US, Ian Davis brings significant financial and strategic experience to the board.
he became the Downstreams chief financial officer and commercial He has had a lengthy career working with and advising global organizations director from 2002 to 2005. and companies in the oil and gas industry.
This experience has been In 2003 he was appointed a director of TNK-BP, retiring from the board in recognized by the board in his appointments as a member of a broad 2005 and re-joining in 2010.
From 2005 to 2010 he was chief executive of range of committees and as chairman of the Gulf of Mexico committee.
integrated supply and trading, BPs commodity trading arm.
In 2010 he As chairman of the Gulf of Mexico committee he has made a significant was appointed deputy group chief financial officer with responsibility for contribution in guiding the boards response to the various legal issues the finance function before being appointed chief financial officer on which have arisen following the Deepwater Horizon accident.
During the 1 January 2012. year he stood down from the audit committee to allow him to focus his Relevant experience and skills time with the Gulf of Mexico committee: he has remained a member of Dr Brian Gilvary has 27 years of experience within BP, gaining a strong the remuneration committee.
knowledge of finance and trading, and a deep understanding of BPs assets and businesses, including its interests in Russia through his time on the board of TNK-BP.
Professor Dame Ann Dowling Current position Professor Dame Ann Dowling was appointed a non-executive director of Dr Byron Grote BP on 3 February 2012.
Current position Board and committee activities Dr Byron Grote is BPs executive vice president, corporate business She is a member of the SEEAC and the chairmans and the remuneration activities.
He was appointed an executive director of BP on 3 August committees.
He will retire from the BP board at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
Outside interests Dame Ann Dowling is Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Head of Group responsibilities the Department of Engineering at the University of Cambridge.
She is On 1 January 2012, he became executive vice president, corporate chair of the Physical Sciences, Engineering and Mathematics Panel in the business activities.
He has accountability for BPs integrated supply and Research Excellence Framework the UK Governments review of trading operations and shipping businesses, Alternative Energy business, research in universities.
and its technology and remediation activities.
Career Outside interests She was appointed a Professor of Mechanical Engineering in the Dr Byron Grote is a non-executive director of Unilever NV and Department of Engineering at the University of Cambridge in 1993 the Unilever PLC.
Department of Engineering is one of the leading centres for engineering Career research worldwide.
Between 1999 and 2000 she was the Jerome C Hunsaker Visiting Professor at MIT subsequently becoming a Moore He joined The Standard Oil Company of Ohio in 1979.
Following a variety of roles, he became group treasurer and chief executive officer of BP distinguished scholar at Caltech in 2001.
When she returned to the University of Cambridge, she became head of the Division of Energy, finance in 1992.
In 1994, he took up the position of regional chief executive in Latin America, returning to London in 1995 to become deputy Fluid Mechanics and Turbomachinery in the Department of Engineering, becoming UK lead of the Silent Aircraft Initiative in 2003, a collaboration chief executive officer of BP exploration.
He became group chief of staff in 1997 and, following the merger of BP and Amoco, in 1999 he was between researchers at Cambridge and MIT.
She became head of the Department of Engineering at the University of Cambridge in 2009.
She appointed executive vice president, exploration and production.
Following his appointment to the board in 2000, he served for two years as chief was appointed director of the University Gas Turbine Partnership with Rolls-Royce in 2001 and chairman in 2009. executive of BP chemicals.
He was chief financial officer from 2002 until the end of 2011.
Between 2003 and 2008 she chaired the Rolls-Royce Propulsion and Power Systems Advisory Board.
She chaired the Royal Society Royal Relevant experience and skills Academy of Engineering study on nanotechnology.
She is a Fellow of Dr Byron Grote has served on the board for 12 years.
Throughout his the Royal Society and the Royal Academy of Engineering and is a foreign tenure at BP, Byron has played a key role at critical moments of the associate of the US National Academy of Engineering and of the French companys history, most notably in the integrations of Amoco and Arco, Academy of Sciences.
and more recently in guiding BP through the financial challenges following the incidents in April 2010.
Corporate governance 107 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Brendan Nelson Andrew Shilston Current position Current position Brendan Nelson was appointed a non-executive director of BP on Andrew Shilston was appointed a non-executive director of BP on 8 November 2010.
1 January 2012 and became BPs senior independent director on 12 April 2012.
Board and committee activities He is chairman of the audit committee and is a member of the chairmans Board and committee activities and nomination committees.
He is a member of the chairmans and the audit committees and attends the nomination committee.
Outside interests Brendan Nelson is a non-executive director of The Royal Bank of Scotland Outside interests Group plc where he is chairman of the group audit committee.
He is a Andrew Shilston is a non-executive director of Circle Holdings plc and director of the Financial Skills Partnership and is deputy president of the chairman of the Morgan Crucible Company plc.
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Career Career He trained as a chartered accountant before joining BP as a management He is a chartered accountant.
He was made a partner of KPMG in 1984. accountant.
He subsequently joined Abbott Laboratories before moving to He served as a member of the UK Board of KPMG from 2000 to 2006 Enterprise Oil plc in 1984 at the time of otation.
In 1989 he became subsequently being appointed vice chairman until his retirement in 2010. treasurer of Enterprise Oil and was appointed finance director in 1993.
At KPMG International he held a number of senior positions including After the sale of Enterprise Oil to Shell in 2002, in 2003 he became global chairman, banking and global chairman, financial services.
finance director of Rolls-Royce plc until his retirement on 31 December 2011.
He served six years as a member of the Financial Services Practitioner Panel.
He has served as a non-executive director on the board of Cairn Energy plc where he chaired the audit committee.
Relevant experience and skills Brendan Nelson has had a long career in finance and auditing, particularly Relevant experience and skills in the areas of financial services and trading, which qualies him to chair Andrew Shilston has had a long career in finance within the oil and gas the audit committee and to act as its financial expert.
His knowledge and experience as a chief financial officer, rstly in Enterprise Oil and then Rolls-Royce, and as audit committee chairman This is complemented by his broader business experience.
During the at Cairn Energy makes him well suited as a member of BPs audit year he has led the work of the audit committee in continuing to committee.
He has also provided valuable insight to the work of the strengthen the companys financial framework and has monitored the Russia committee.
As senior independent director he has attended groups relationship with the external auditors.
In 2012 he joined the meetings of the nomination committee.
David Jackson Phuthuma Nhleko Current position Current position David Jackson was appointed company secretary in 2003.
A solicitor, he Phuthuma Nhleko was appointed a non-executive director of BP on is a director of BP Pension Trustees Limited.
Board and committee activities He is a member of the chairmans and the audit committees.
Outside interests Phuthuma Nhleko is a non-executive director of Anglo American plc.
Career He began his career as a civil engineer in the US and as a project manager for infrastructure developments in Southern Africa.
Following this he became a senior executive of the Standard Corporate and Merchant Bank in South Africa.
He later held a succession of directorships before joining MTN Group, a pan-African and Middle Eastern telephony group represented in 21 countries, as group president and chief executive officer in 2002.
During his tenure at the MTN Group he led a number of substantial mergers and acquisitions transactions.
He stepped down as group chief executive of MTN Group at the end of March 2011.
He was formerly a director of a number of listed South African companies, including Johnnic Holdings previously a subsidiary of the Anglo American group of companies, Nedbank Group, Bidvest Group and Alexander Forbes.
Relevant experience and skills Phuthuma Nhlekos background in engineering and his broad experience as a chief executive of a multi-national company enables him to contribute to the board, particularly in the areas of emerging market economies and the evolution of the groups strategy.
His financial and commercial experience is relevant to his work on the audit committee.
108 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
