claimants may seek punitive damages under general maritime law.
The Legalproceedings judge did not, however, lift an earlier stay on the underlying individual complaints raising those claims or otherwise apply his dismissal of the master complaint to those individual complaints.
On 30 September 2011, Proceedings relating to the Deepwater Horizon the judge in the federal multi-district litigation proceeding in New Orleans oil spill granted in part BPs motion to dismiss a master complaint asserting BP p. l. c. BP Exploration & Production Inc. BPXP and various other BP personal injury claims on behalf of persons exposed to crude oil or entities collectively referred to as BP are among the companies named as chemical dispersants, dismissing plaintiffs state law claims, claims by defendants in approximately 750 civil lawsuits resulting from the 20 April seamen for punitive damages, claims for medical monitoring damages by 2010 explosions and fire on the semi-submersible rig Deepwater Horizon asymptomatic plaintiffs, claims for battery and nuisance under maritime and resulting oil spill the Incident and further actions are likely to be law, and claims alleging negligence per se.
As with his other rulings on brought.
BPXP is lease operator of Mississippi Canyon, Block 252 in the Gulf motions to dismiss master complaints, the judge did not lift an earlier stay of Mexico Macondo, where the Deepwater Horizon was deployed at the on the underlying individual complaints raising those claims or otherwise time of the Incident.
The other working interest owners at the time of the apply his dismissal of the master complaint to those individual complaints.
Incident were Anadarko Petroleum Company Anadarko and MOEX Shareholder derivative lawsuits related to the Incident have been filed in Offshore 2007 LLC MOEX.
The Deepwater Horizon, which was owned US federal and state courts against various current and former officers and and operated by certain affiliates of Transocean Ltd. Transocean, sank on directors of BP alleging, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, 22 April 2010.
The pending lawsuits and or claims arising from the Incident gross mismanagement, abuse of control and waste of corporate assets.
have generally been brought in US federal and state courts.
Plaintiffs include On 15 September 2011, the judge in the federal multi-district litigation individuals, corporations, insurers, and governmental entities and many of proceeding in Houston MDL 2185 granted BPs motion to dismiss the the lawsuits purport to be class actions.
The lawsuits assert, among others, consolidated shareholder derivative litigation pending there on the claims for personal injury in connection with the Incident itself and the grounds that the courts of England are the appropriate forum for the response to it, wrongful death, commercial and economic injury, breach of litigation.
On 8 December 2011, a final judgment was entered dismissing contract and violations of statutes.
The lawsuits seek various remedies the shareholder derivative case and, on 3 January 2012, one of the including compensation to injured workers and families of deceased derivative plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to the US Court of Appeals for workers, recovery for commercial losses and property damage, the Fifth Circuit.
On 16 January 2013, the Court of Appeals affirmed compensation for personal injuries and medical monitoring, claims for dismissal of the action.
The plaintiffs in the two remaining state-court environmental damage, remediation costs, claims for unpaid wages, actions, which are pending in Texas and Louisiana, have agreed to be injunctive and declaratory relief, treble damages and punitive damages.
bound by the outcome of the federal case.
Purported classes of claimants include residents of the states of Louisiana, On 13 February 2012, the judge in the federal multi-district litigation Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Texas, Tennessee, Kentucky, Georgia and proceeding in Houston issued two decisions on the defendants motions to South Carolina: property owners and rental agents, fishermen and persons dismiss the two consolidated securities fraud complaints filed on behalf of dependent on the fishing industry, charter boat owners and deck hands, purported classes of BP ordinary shareholders and ADS holders.
In those marina owners, gasoline distributors, shipping interests, restaurant and hotel decisions the court dismissed all of the claims of the ordinary shareholders, owners, cruise lines and others who are property and or business owners dismissed the claims of the lead class of ADS holders against most of the alleged to have suffered economic loss: and response workers and individual defendants while holding that a subset of the claims against two residents claiming injuries due to exposure to the components of oil and or individual defendants and the corporate defendants could proceed, and chemical dispersants.
Among other claims arising from the spill response dismissed all of the claims of a smaller purported subclass with leave to reefforts, lawsuits have been filed claiming that additional payments are due plead in 20 days.
On 2 April 2012, plaintiffs in the lead class and subclass by BP under certain Master Vessel Charter Agreements entered into in the filed an amended consolidated complaint with claims based on 1 the 12 course of the Vessels of Opportunity Program implemented as part of the alleged misstatements that the court held were actionable in its February response to the Incident.
Purported class action and individual lawsuits have 2012 order on BPs motion to dismiss the earlier complaints: and 2 13 also been filed in US state and federal courts, as well as one suit in Canada, alleged misstatements concerning BPs operating management system that against BP entities and or various current and former officers and directors the judge either rejected with leave to re-plead or did not address in his alleging, among other things, shareholder derivative claims, securities fraud February decisions.
On 2 May 2012, defendants moved to dismiss the claims, violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ERISA claims based on the 13 statements in the amended complaint that the judge and contractual and quasi-contractual claims related to the cancellation of did not already rule are actionable.
On 6 February 2013, the judge granted in the dividend on 16 June 2010.
In August 2010, many of the lawsuits part this motion to dismiss, rejecting plaintiffs claims based on 10 of the 17 pending in federal court were consolidated by the Federal Judicial Panel on statements at issue in the motion and also dismissing all claims against Multi-district Litigation into two multi-district litigation proceedings, one in Andrew Inglis.
On 5 March 2013, the court announced that a trial date has federal court in Houston for the securities, derivative, ERISA and dividend been scheduled for 25 August 2014. cases and another in federal court in New Orleans for the remaining cases.
In April and May 2012, six new cases three of which were consolidated into BP has had discussions with the DoJ regarding possible settlements of one action were filed in state and federal courts by one or more state, the claims by the DoJ, other federal agencies and certain States, in whole county or municipal pension funds against BP entities and several current or in part, and remains open to further discussions but there are a number and former officers and directors seeking damages for alleged losses those of significant issues and considerable uncertainty as to whether any funds suffered because of their purchases of BP ordinary shares and, in two agreement could ultimately be reached.
The funds assert various state law and federal law claims.
All On 25 February 2013, the first phase of a Trial of Liability, Limitation, of the cases have been transferred to the judge in the federal multi-district Exoneration and Fault Allocation commenced in the federal multi-district litigation proceeding in Houston.
In May and June, plaintiffs in the two cases litigation proceeding in New Orleans.
For further information, see that were filed in state court moved to send those cases back to state court, page 164 below.
which was denied on 3 October 2012.
On 4 January 2013, the judge denied In addition, BP has been named in several lawsuits alleging claims under the a motion to certify that decision for immediate appeal.
On 21 December Racketeer-Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act RICO.
On 15 July 2012, defendants filed motions to dismiss these cases.
From July 2012 to 2011, the judge granted BPs motion to dismiss a master complaint raising January 2013, nine additional cases were filed in Texas state and federal RICO claims against BP.
The courts order dismissed the claims of the courts four of which were consolidated into one action by pension or plaintiffs in four RICO cases encompassed by the master complaint.
investment funds against BP entities and current and former officers, asserting Texas state law claims and seeking damages for alleged losses On 26 August 2011, the judge in the federal multi-district litigation that those funds suffered because of their purchases of BP ordinary shares.
proceeding in New Orleans granted in part BPs motion to dismiss a All of the cases have been transferred to federal court in Houston, and it is master complaint raising claims for economic loss by private plaintiffs, anticipated that they will be handled by the same judge presiding over the dismissing plaintiffs state law claims and limiting the types of maritime multi-district litigation proceeding.
law claims plaintiffs may pursue, but also held that certain classes of 162 Additional disclosures BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Additional disclosures On 20 July 2012, a BP entity received an amended statement of claim for implementation and enforcement.
BP has also agreed to hire an an action in Alberta, Canada, filed by three plaintiffs seeking to assert independent third-party auditor who will review and report to the probation claims under Canadian law against BP on behalf of a class of Canadian officer, the DoJ and BP regarding BPs implementation of key terms of residents who allegedly suffered losses because of their purchase of BP the proposed settlement, including procedures and systems related to ordinary shares and ADSs.
This case was dismissed on jurisdictional safety and environmental management, operational oversight, and oil spill grounds on 14 November 2012.
On 15 November 2012, one of the response training and drills.
Under the plea agreement, BP has also plaintiffs re-filed a statement of claim against BP in Ontario, Canada, agreed to co-operate in ongoing criminal actions and investigations, seeking to assert the same claims under Canadian law against BP on including prosecutions of four former employees who have been behalf of a class of Canadian residents.
BP informed the Ontario court that separately charged.
it intends to contest jurisdiction, and a hearing on this issue has been In its resolution with the SEC, BP has resolved the SECs Deepwater scheduled for 23-24 September 2013.
Horizon-related claims against the company under Sections 10 b and On 5 July 2012, the judge in the federal multi-district litigation proceeding 13 a of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the associated rules.
BP in Houston MDL 2185 issued a decision granting the defendants has agreed to a civil penalty of $525 million, payable in three instalments motions to dismiss, for lack of personal jurisdiction, the lawsuit against BP over a period of three years, and has consented to the entry of an p. l. c. for cancelling its dividend payment in June 2010.
On 10 August injunction prohibiting it from violating certain US securities laws and 2012, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, which BP moved to regulations.
The SECs claims are premised on oil flow rate estimates dismiss on 9 October 2012. contained in three reports provided by BP to the SEC during a one-week period on 29 and 30 April 2010 and 4 May 2010, within the first 14 days On 30 March 2012, the judge in the federal multi-district litigation after the accident.
BPs consent was incorporated in a final judgment and proceeding in Houston MDL 2185 issued a decision granting the court order on 10 December 2012, and BP made its first payment of $175 defendants motions to dismiss the ERISA case related to BP share funds million on 11 December 2012.
BPs consent and the final judgment and in several employee benefit savings plans.
On 11 April 2012, plaintiffs order of the US District Court are provided as Exhibit 99.2 and Exhibit requested leave to file an amended complaint, which was denied on 99.3, respectively, to this Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012.
Final judgment dismissing the case was entered on 4 September 2012 and, on 25 September 2012, plaintiffs filed a notice of BPs November 2012 agreement with the US government does not appeal to the US Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
resolve the DoJs civil claims, such as claims for civil penalties under the Clean Water Act or claims for natural resource damages under the Oil On 1 June 2010, the US Department of Justice DoJ announced that it Pollution Act of 1990 OPA 90.
Neither does it resolve the private was conducting an investigation into the Incident encompassing possible securities claims pending in the multi-district litigation proceedings in violations of US civil or criminal laws.
The DoJ announced on 7 March Houston MDL 2185.
2011 that it had created a unified task force of federal agencies, led by the DoJ Criminal Division, to investigate the Incident.
Other US federal On 28 November 2012, the US Environmental Protection Agency EPA agencies still may commence investigations relating to the Incident.
The notified BP that it had temporarily suspended BP p. l. c. BPXP and a SEC and DoJ also investigated potential securities law violations, including number of other BP subsidiaries from participating in new federal potential securities fraud claims, alleged to have arisen in relation to the contracts.
As a result of the temporary suspension, the BP entities listed Incident.
On 15 November 2012, BP announced that it reached agreement in the notice are ineligible to receive any US government contracts either with the US government, subject to court approval, to resolve all federal through the award of a new contract, or the extension of the term of or criminal charges and all claims by the SEC against BP arising from the renewal of an expiring contract.
The suspension does not affect existing Deepwater Horizon accident, oil spill and response.
contracts the company has with the US government, including those relating to current and ongoing drilling and production operations in the On 29 January 2013, the US District Court for the Eastern District of Gulf of Mexico.
Louisiana accepted BPs pleas regarding the federal criminal charges, and BP was sentenced in connection with the criminal plea agreement.
BP The charges to which BPXP pleaded guilty included one misdemeanour pleaded guilty to 11 felony counts of Misconduct or Neglect of Ships count under the Clean Water Act that, by operation of law following the Officers relating to the loss of 11 lives: one misdemeanour count under courts acceptance of BPXPs plea, triggers a statutory debarment, also the Clean Water Act: one misdemeanour count under the Migratory Bird referred to as mandatory debarment, of the BPXP facility where the Clean Treaty Act: and one felony count of obstruction of Congress.
The final Water Act violation occurred.
On 1 February 2013, the EPA issued a judgment and order of the US District Court is provided as Exhibit 99.1 to notice that BPXP was mandatorily debarred at its Houston headquarters.
this Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012.
Mandatory debarment prevents a company from entering into new Pursuant to that sentence, BP will pay $4 billion, including $1.256 billion in contracts or new leases with the US government that would be criminal fines, in instalments over a period of five years.
Under the terms performed at the facility where the Clean Water Act violation occurred.
A of the criminal plea agreement, a total of $2.394 billion will be paid to the mandatory debarment does not affect any existing contracts or leases a National Fish & Wildlife Foundation NFWF over a period of five years.
In company has with the US government and will remain in place until such addition, $350 million will be paid to the National Academy of Sciences time as the debarment is lifted through an agreement with the EPA.
NAS over a period of five years.
The court also ordered, as previously With respect to the entities named in the temporary suspension, the agreed with the US government, that BP serve a term of five years temporary suspension may be maintained or the EPA may elect to issue a probation.
Pursuant to the terms of the plea agreement, the court also notice of proposed discretionary debarment to some or all of the named ordered certain equitable relief, including additional actions, enforceable entities.
Like suspension, a discretionary debarment would preclude BP by the court, to further enhance the safety of drilling operations in the Gulf entities listed in the notice from receiving new federal fuel contracts, as of Mexico.
These requirements relate to BPs risk management well as new oil and gas leases, although existing contracts and leases will processes, such as third-party auditing and verification, BPs Oil Spill continue.
Discretionary debarment typically lasts three to five years and Response Plan, training, and well control equipment and processes such may be imposed for a longer period, unless it is resolved through an as blowout preventers and cementing.
BP has also agreed to maintain a administrative agreement.
To date, the EPA has not issued such notice of real-time drilling operations monitoring centre in Houston or another proposed discretionary debarment to any of the entities named in the appropriate location.
In addition, BP will undertake several initiatives with temporary suspension.
academia and regulators to develop new technologies related to While BPs discussions with the EPA have been taking place in parallel to deepwater drilling safety.
The resolution also provides for the appointment the court proceedings on the criminal plea, the companys work toward of two monitors, both with terms of four years.
A process safety monitor reaching an administrative agreement with the EPA is a separate process, will review, evaluate and provide recommendations for the improvement and it may take some time to resolve issues relating to such an of BPs process safety and risk management procedures including, but agreement.
BPXPs mandatory debarment applies following sentencing not limited to, BPs risk review of processes concerning deepwater drilling and is not an indication of any change in the status of discussions with the in the Gulf of Mexico.
An ethics monitor will review and provide EPA.
The process for resolving both mandatory and discretionary recommendations for the improvement of BPs code of conduct and its Additional disclosures 163 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 debarment is essentially the same as for resolving the temporary Clean Water Act, the judge held that the subsurface discharge was from the suspension.
BP continues to work with the EPA in preparing an Macondo well, rather than from the Deepwater Horizon, and that BP and administrative agreement that will resolve suspension and debarment Anadarko are liable for civil penalties under Section 311 of the Clean Water issues.
On 15 February 2013, BP filed an administrative challenge with the Act as owners of the well.
The judge left open the question of whether EPA seeking to lift the 28 November 2012 suspension of 22 BP entities and Transocean may be liable under the Clean Water Act as an operator of the the 1 February 2013 statutory debarment of BPXP at its Houston Macondo well.
Anadarko, BP and the United States have each appealed the headquarters.
BP maintains that the EPAs actions do not reflect BPs 22 February 2012 ruling to the US Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, and present status as a responsible government contractor.
The EPA will review the appeals have been consolidated.
On 23 October 2012, Transocean filed the administrative record and determine whether to change its decision.
a motion to dismiss the appeal as untimely and for lack of jurisdiction.
On 5 Decisions reached by the EPA can be challenged in federal court.
February 2013, the appeals court denied Transoceans motion.
The United States filed a civil complaint in the multi-district litigation On 11 January 2013, BP filed a motion for partial summary judgment against proceeding in New Orleans against BPXP and others on 15 December 2010 the United States, seeking rulings that 1 BP collected at least 810,000 DoJ Action.
The complaint seeks a declaration of liability under OPA 90 and barrels from the broken riser, from the top of the blowout preventer and civil penalties under the Clean Water Act and sets forth a purported lower marine riser package, and from the choke and kill lines of the blowout reservation of rights on behalf of the US to amend the complaint or file preventer, all before these barrels reached the waters of the Gulf of Mexico, additional complaints seeking various remedies under various US federal and 2 that these barrels may not be counted toward the maximum penalty laws and statutes.
See Financial statements Note 2 on page 194. potentially to be assessed against BP under Section 311 of the Clean Water Act, 33 U. S. C. 1321.
The court set a schedule under which briefing on A Trial of Liability, Limitation, Exoneration, and Fault Allocation was originally BPs motion will be complete in February 2013.
On 15 February 2013, BP scheduled to begin in the federal multi-district litigation proceeding in New and the United States reached a stipulation, entered by the court on 19 Orleans in February 2012.
The courts pre-trial order issued 14 September February 2013.
The stipulation provides that 810,000 barrels of oil were 2011 provided for the trial to proceed in three phases and to include issues collected without coming into contact with ambient Gulf waters and that asserted in or relevant to the claims, counterclaims, cross-claims, third-party those 810,000 barrels of oil are not to be used in calculating the statutory claims, and comparative fault defences raised in Transoceans Limitation of maximum penalty under the Clean Water Act.
Pursuant to an amended pre-trial order dated 30 May 2012, the first phase of the Trial of Liability, Limitation, On 1 March 2013, Transocean sought the MDL 2179 courts leave to Exoneration, and Fault Allocation commenced on 25 February 2013.
The first supplement its pleadings to include an affirmative defence asserting that trial phase will address issues arising out of the conduct of various parties BPs representations regarding the flow rate at the Macondo well allegedly relevant to the loss of well control at the Macondo well, the constituted an intervening and superseding cause of the oil spill for the ensuing fire and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon on 20 April 2010, the majority of its duration.
Transoceans defence claims that BP fraudulently sinking of the vessel on 22 April 2010 and the initiation of the release of oil misrepresented and concealed information regarding the flow rate at the from the Deepwater Horizon or the Macondo well during those time Macondo well in late April and May 2010, as well as the likelihood of periods, including whether BP or any other party was grossly negligent.
The success of a top-kill approach to stopping the flow of hydrocarbons from second trial phase, which is projected to commence in September 2013, will the well, and thus prevented the implementation of alternative means of address i source control issues pertaining to the conduct or inaction of source control that Transocean asserts could have capped the well as BP, Transocean or other relevant parties regarding stopping the release of early as May 2010.
Also on 1 March 2013, Halliburton filed a motion for hydrocarbons stemming from the Incident from 22 April 2010 through leave to amend its answers in MDL 2179 to assert a similar defence.
approximately 19 September 2010, and ii quantification of discharge On 4 April 2011, BP initiated contractual out-of-court dispute resolution issues pertaining to the amount of oil actually released into the Gulf of proceedings against Anadarko and MOEX, claiming that they have breached Mexico as a result of the Incident from the time when these releases began the parties contract by failing to reimburse BP for their working-interest until the Macondo well was capped on approximately 15 July 2010 and then share of Incident-related costs.
On 19 April 2011, Anadarko filed a crosspermanently cemented shut on approximately 19 September 2010. claim against BP, alleging gross negligence and 15 other counts under state On 20 April 2011, BP filed claims against Cameron International and federal laws.
Anadarko sought a declaration that it was excused from its Corporation Cameron, Halliburton Energy Services, Inc. Halliburton, and contractual obligation to pay Incident-related costs.
Anadarko also sought Transocean in the DoJ Action, seeking contribution for any assessments damages from alleged economic losses and contribution or indemnity for against BP under OPA 90 based on those entities fault.
On 20 June 2011, claims filed against it by other parties.
On 20 May 2011, BP and MOEX Cameron and Halliburton moved to dismiss BPs claims against them in announced a settlement agreement of all claims between them, including a the DoJ Action.
BPs claim against Cameron has been resolved pursuant cross-claim brought by MOEX on 19 April 2011 similar to the Anadarko to settlement, but Halliburtons motion remains pending.
Under the settlement agreement, MOEX has paid BP $1.065 billion, On 30 May 2011, Transocean filed claims against BP in the DoJ Action which BP has applied towards the $20-billion Trust, and has also agreed to transfer all of its 10% interest in the MC252 lease to BP.
On 17 October alleging that BP America Production Company had breached its contract with Transocean Holdings LLC by not agreeing to indemnify Transocean 2011, BP and Anadarko announced that they had reached a final agreement to settle all claims between the companies related to the Incident, including against liability related to the Incident.
Transocean also asserted claims against BP under state law, maritime law and OPA 90 for contribution.
On mutual releases of all claims between BP and Anadarko that are subject to the contractual out-of-court dispute resolution proceedings or the federal 20 June 2011, Cameron filed similar claims against BP in the DoJ Action.
multi-district litigation proceeding in New Orleans.
Under the settlement On 8 December 2011, the United States brought a motion for partial agreement, Anadarko has paid BP $4 billion, which BP has applied towards summary judgment seeking, among other things, an order finding that BP, the $20-billion Trust, and has also agreed to transfer all of its 25% interest in Transocean and Anadarko are strictly liable for a civil penalty under the MC252 lease to BP.
The settlement agreement also grants Anadarko Section 311 b 7 A of the Clean Water Act.
On 22 February 2012, the the opportunity for a 12.5% participation in certain future recoveries from judge ruled on motions filed in the DoJ Action by the United States, third parties and certain insurance proceeds in the event that such Anadarko, and Transocean seeking early rulings regarding the liability of BP, recoveries and proceeds exceed $1.5 billion in aggregate.
Any such Anadarko and Transocean under OPA 90 and the Clean Water Act, but payments to Anadarko are capped at a total of $1 billion.
BP has agreed to limited the order to addressing the discharge of hydrocarbons occurring indemnify Anadarko and MOEX for certain claims arising from the Incident under the surface of the water.
Regarding OPA 90, the judge held that BP excluding civil, criminal or administrative fines and penalties, claims for and Anadarko are responsible parties under OPA 90 with regard to the punitive damages, and certain other claims.
The settlement agreements subsurface discharge.
The judge ruled that BP and Anadarko have joint and with Anadarko and MOEX are not an admission of liability by any party several liability under OPA 90 for removal costs and damages for such regarding the Incident.
discharge, but did not rule on whether such liability under OPA 90 is unlimited.
While the judge held that Transocean is not a responsible party On 18 February 2011, Transocean filed a third-party complaint against BP, under OPA 90 for subsurface discharge, the judge left open the question of the US government, and other corporations involved in the Incident, whether Transocean may be liable under OPA 90 for removal costs for such naming those entities as formal parties in its Limitation of Liability action discharge as the owner operator of the Deepwater Horizon.
Regarding the pending in federal court in New Orleans.
164 Additional disclosures BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Additional disclosures On 20 April 2011, Transocean filed claims in its Limitation of Liability On 1 September 2011, Halliburton filed an additional lawsuit against BP in action alleging that BP had breached BP America Production Companys Texas state court.
Its complaint alleges that BP did not identify the contract with Transocean Holdings LLC by BP not agreeing to indemnify existence of a purported hydrocarbon zone at the Macondo well to Transocean against liability related to the Incident and by not paying Halliburton in connection with Halliburtons cement work performed certain invoices.
Transocean also asserted claims against BP under state before the Incident and that BP has concealed the existence of this law, maritime law, and OPA 90 for contribution.
On 1 November 2011, purported hydrocarbon zone following the Incident.
Halliburton claims that Transocean filed a motion for partial summary judgment on certain claims the alleged failure to identify this information has harmed its business filed in the Limitation Action and the DoJ Action between BP and ventures and reputation and resulted in lost profits and other damages.
Transoceans motion sought an order that would bar BPs 16 September 2011, BP removed the action to federal court, where it was contribution claims against Transocean and require BP to defend and stayed until it was transferred by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict indemnify Transocean against all pollution claims, including those resulting Litigation to the multi-district litigation proceeding in New Orleans.
On from any gross negligence, and from civil fines and penalties sought by 1 September 2011, Halliburton also moved to amend its claims in the government.
On 7 December 2011, BP filed a cross-motion for Transoceans Limitation of Liability action to add claims for fraud based on summary judgment seeking an order that BP is not required to indemnify similar factual allegations to those included in its 1 September 2011 Transocean for any civil fines and penalties sought by the government or lawsuit against BP in Texas state court.
On 11 October 2011, the for punitive damages.
magistrate judge in the federal multi-district litigation proceeding in New Orleans denied Halliburtons motion to amend its claims, and Halliburtons On 26 January 2012, the judge ruled on BPs and Transoceans indemnity motion to review the order was denied by the judge on 19 December motions, holding that BP is required to indemnify Transocean for third- 2011. party claims for compensatory damages resulting from pollution originating beneath the surface of the water, regardless of whether the On 20 April 2011, BP asserted claims against Cameron, Halliburton and claim results from Transoceans strict liability, negligence or gross Transocean in the Limitation of Liability action.
The court, however, ruled that BP does not owe Transocean Transocean include breach of contract, unseaworthiness of the indemnity for such claims to the extent Transocean is held liable for Deepwater Horizon vessel, negligence or gross negligence and or gross punitive damages or for civil penalties under the Clean Water Act, or if fault as may be established at trial based upon the evidence, contribution Transocean acted with intentional or wilful misconduct in excess of gross and subrogation for costs including those arising from litigation claims negligence.
The court further held that BPs obligation to defend resulting from the Incident, as well as a declaratory claim that Transocean Transocean for third-party claims does not require BP to fund is wholly or partly at fault for the Incident and responsible for its Transoceans defence of third-party claims at this time, nor does it include proportionate share of the costs and damages.
BP asserted claims against Transoceans expenses in proving its right to indemnity.
The court Halliburton for fraud and fraudulent concealment based on Halliburtons deferred a final ruling on the question of whether Transocean breached its misrepresentations to BP concerning, among other things, the stability drilling contract with BP so as to invalidate the contracts indemnity testing on the foamed cement used at the Macondo well: for negligence clause.
or, if established by the evidence at trial, gross negligence based on Halliburtons performance of its professional services, including On 20 April 2011, Halliburton filed claims in Transoceans Limitation of cementing and mud logging services: and for contribution and subrogation Liability action seeking indemnification from BP for claims brought against for amounts that BP has paid in responding to the Incident, as well as in Halliburton in that action, and Cameron asserted claims against BP for OPA assessments and in payments to plaintiffs.
BP filed a similar contribution under state law, maritime law and OPA 90, as well as for complaint in federal court in the Southern District of Texas, Houston contribution on the basis of comparative fault.
Halliburton also asserted a Division, against Halliburton, and the action was transferred on 4 May claim for negligence, gross negligence and wilful misconduct against BP 2011 to the federal multi-district litigation proceeding pending in New and others.
On 19 April 2011, Halliburton filed a separate lawsuit in Texas Orleans.
state court seeking indemnification from BPXP for certain tort and pollution-related liabilities resulting from the Incident.
On 3 May 2011, On 16 December 2011, BP and Cameron announced their agreement to BPXP removed Halliburtons case to federal court, and on 9 August 2011, settle all claims between the companies related to the Incident, including the action was transferred to the federal multi-district litigation mutual releases of claims between BP and Cameron that are subject to proceedings pending in New Orleans.
the federal multi-district litigation proceeding in New Orleans.
Under the settlement agreement, Cameron has paid BP $250 million in cash in Subsequently, on 30 November 2011, Halliburton filed a motion for January 2012, which BP has applied towards the $20-billion Trust.
BP has summary judgment in the federal multi-district litigation proceedings agreed to indemnify Cameron for compensatory claims arising from the pending in New Orleans.
Halliburtons motion sought an order stating that Incident, including claims brought relating to pollution damage or any Halliburton is entitled to full and complete indemnity, including payment of damage to natural resources, but excluding civil, criminal or administrative defence costs, from BP for claims related to the Incident and denying fines and penalties, claims for punitive damages, and certain other claims.
BPs claims seeking contribution against Halliburton.
On 21 December 2011, BP filed a cross-motion for partial summary judgment seeking an On 20 May 2011, Dril-Quip, Inc. and M-I L. L. C. M-I filed claims against order that BP has no contractual obligation to indemnify Halliburton for BP in Transoceans Limitation of Liability action, each claiming a right to fines, penalties or punitive damages resulting from the Incident.
contribution from BP for damages assessed against them as a result of the Incident, based on allegations of negligence.
M-I also claimed a right On 31 January 2012, the judge ruled on BPs and Halliburtons indemnity to indemnity for such damages based on its well services contracts with motions, holding that BP is required to indemnify Halliburton for third-party BP.
On 20 June 2011, BP filed counter-complaints against Dril-Quip, Inc. claims for compensatory damages resulting from pollution that did not and M-I, asking for contribution and subrogation based on those entities originate from property or equipment of Halliburton located above the fault in connection with the Incident and under OPA 90, and seeking surface of the land or water, regardless of whether the claims result from declaratory judgment that Dril-Quip, Inc. and M-I caused or contributed to, Halliburtons gross negligence.
The court, however, ruled that BP does and are responsible in whole or in part for damages incurred by BP in not owe Halliburton indemnity to the extent that Halliburton is held liable relation to the Incident.
On 20 January 2012, the court granted Dril-Quip, for punitive damages or for civil penalties under the Clean Water Act.
The Inc. s motion for summary judgment, dismissing with prejudice all claims court further held that BPs obligation to defend Halliburton for third-party asserted against Dril-Quip in the federal multi-district litigation proceeding claims does not require BP to fund Halliburtons defence of third-party in New Orleans.
claims at this time, nor does it include Halliburtons expenses in proving On 21 January 2012, BP and M-I entered into an agreement settling all its right to indemnity.
The court deferred ruling on whether BP is required to indemnify Halliburton for any penalties or fines under the Outer claims between the companies related to the Incident, including mutual releases of claims between BP and M-I that are subject to the federal Continental Shelf Lands Act.
It also deferred ruling on whether Halliburton acted so as to invalidate the indemnity by breaching its contract with BP, multi-district litigation proceeding in New Orleans.
Under the settlement agreement, M-I has agreed to indemnify BP for personal injury and death by committing fraud, or by committing another act that materially increased the risk to BP or prejudiced the rights of BP as an indemnitor.
claims brought by M-I employees.
BP has agreed to indemnify M-I for claims resulting from the Incident, but excluding certain claims.
Additional disclosures 165 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 On 14 September 2011, the US Coast Guard and Bureau of Ocean Energy individual complaints raising those claims or otherwise apply his dismissal Management, Regulation and Enforcement BOEMRE issued a report of the master complaint to those individual complaints.
BOEMRE Report regarding the causes of the 20 April 2010 Macondo In January 2013, the States of Alabama, Mississippi and Florida formally well blowout.
The BOEMRE Report states that decisions by BP, presented their claims to BP under OPA 90 for alleged losses including Halliburton and Transocean increased the risk or failed to fully consider or economic losses and property damage as a result of the Gulf of Mexico oil mitigate the risk of a blowout on 20 April 2010.
The BOEMRE Report also spill.
BP is evaluating these claims.
The State of Louisiana has also states that BP, Transocean and Halliburton violated certain regulations asserted similar claims.
The amounts claimed, certain of which include related to offshore drilling.
In itself, the BOEMRE Report does not punitive damages or other multipliers, are very substantial.
However, BP constitute the initiation of enforcement proceedings relating to any considers the methodologies used to calculate these claims to be violation.
On 12 October 2011, the U. S. Department of the Interior Bureau seriously flawed, not supported by the legislation and to substantially of Safety and Environmental Enforcement issued to BPXP, Transocean, overstate the claims.
Claims have also been presented by various local and Halliburton Notification of Incidents of Noncompliance INCs.
The governments which are substantial in aggregate and more claims are notification issued to BPXP is for a number of alleged regulatory violations expected to be presented.
The amounts alleged in the presentments for concerning Macondo well operations.
The Department of Interior has State and Local government claims total over $34 billion.
BP will defend indicated that this list of violations may be supplemented as additional vigorously against these claims if adjudicated at trial.
evidence is reviewed, and on 7 December 2011, the Bureau of Safety and On 9 December 2011 and 28 December 2011, the judge in the federal Environmental Enforcement issued to BPXP a second INC.
This multi-district litigation proceeding in New Orleans also granted BPs notification was issued to BP for five alleged violations related to drilling motions to dismiss complaints filed by the District Attorneys of 11 and abandonment operations at the Macondo well.
BP has filed an parishes in the State of Louisiana seeking penalties for damage to wildlife, administrative appeal with respect to the first and second INCs.
BP has holding that those claims are pre-empted by the Clean Water Act.
All 11 of filed a joint stay of proceedings with the Department of Interior with the District Attorneys of parishes in the State of Louisiana have now filed respect to both INCs.
The State of Alabamas attempt to intervene into the On 18 October 2011, Cameron filed a petition for writ of mandamus with case has been denied.
Since May 2012, amicus briefs have been filed in US Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit seeking an order vacating the trial those appeals by the States of Alabama, Louisiana, and Mississippi.
The plan for the 27 February 2012 trial and requiring that all claims against appeal is now fully briefed and was scheduled for oral argument on Cameron in that proceeding be tried before a jury.
On 26 December 2011, 5 March 2013. the Court of Appeals denied the application for mandamus.
On 3 March 2012, BP announced an agreement in principle with the The State of Alabama has filed a lawsuit seeking damages for alleged Plaintiffs Steering Committee PSC in the federal multi-district litigation economic and environmental harms, including natural resource damages, proceedings pending in the federal district court in New Orleans MDL civil penalties under state law, declaratory and injunctive relief, and 2179 to settle the substantial majority of legitimate private economic and punitive damages as a result of the Incident.
The State of Louisiana has property damages claims and exposure-based medical claims stemming filed a lawsuit to declare various BP entities as well as other entities from the Incident.
On 18 April 2012, BP and the PSC filed with that court liable for removal costs and damages, including natural resource damages the Economic and Property Damages Settlement Agreement and the under federal and state law, to recover civil penalties, attorneys fees, and Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement Agreement.
response costs under state law, and to recover for alleged negligence, The Economic and Property Damages Settlement resolves certain nuisance, trespass, fraudulent concealment and negligent economic and property damage claims, and the Medical Benefits Class misrepresentation of material facts regarding safety procedures and BPs Action Settlement resolves medical claims by response workers and and other defendants ability to manage the oil spill, unjust enrichment certain Gulf Coast residents.
The Economic and Property Damages from economic and other damages to the State of Louisiana and its Settlement includes a $2.3-billion BP commitment to help resolve citizens, and punitive damages.
The Louisiana Department of economic loss claims related to the Gulf seafood industry and a $57- Environmental Quality has issued an administrative order seeking million fund to support continued advertising that promotes Gulf Coast environmental civil penalties and other relief under state law.
It also resolves property damage in certain areas along the Gulf 23 September 2011, BP removed this matter to federal district court, Coast, as well as claims for additional payments under certain Master and it has been consolidated with the multi-district proceedings in Vessel Charter Agreements entered into in the course of the Vessels of New Orleans.
Opportunity Program implemented as part of the response to the Incident.
District Attorneys of 11 parishes in the State of Louisiana have filed suits The Economic and Property Damages Settlement does not include claims under state wildlife statutes seeking penalties for damage to wildlife as a made against BP by the DoJ or other federal agencies including under the result of the spill.
On 10 December 2010, the Mississippi Department of Clean Water Act and for Natural Resource Damages under the Oil Environmental Quality issued a Complaint and Notice of Violation alleging Pollution Act or by the states and local governments.
Also excluded are violations of several state environmental statutes.
certain other claims against BP, such as securities and shareholder claims On 14 November 2011, the judge in the federal multi-district litigation pending in MDL 2185, and claims based solely on the deepwater drilling proceeding in New Orleans granted in part BPs motion to dismiss the moratorium and or the related permitting process.
complaints filed by the States of Alabama and Louisiana.
The judges The Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement involves payments to order dismissed the States claims brought under state law, including qualifying class members based on a matrix for certain Specified Physical claims for civil penalties and the State of Louisianas request for a Conditions, as well as a 21-year Periodic Medical Consultation Programme declaratory judgment under the Louisiana Oil Spill Prevention and for qualifying class members.
Although claims will not be paid until the Response Act, holding that those claims were pre-empted by federal law.
agreements Effective Date i. e. the final approval of the Medical It also dismissed the State of Louisianas claims of nuisance and trespass Benefits Class Action Settlement and resolution of all appeals class under general maritime law.
The judges order further held that the States members are permitted to file claim forms in advance of the Effective have stated claims for negligence and products liability under general Date to facilitate administration of the Medical Benefits Class Action maritime law, that the States have sufficiently alleged presentment of Settlement upon the Effective Date.
It also provides that class members their claims under OPA 90, and that the States may seek punitive claiming Later-Manifested Physical Conditions may pursue their claims damages under general maritime law.
On 9 December 2011, the judge in through a mediation litigation process, but waive, among other things, the the federal multi-district litigation proceeding in New Orleans granted in right to seek punitive damages.
Consistent with its commitment to the part BPs motion to dismiss a master complaint brought on behalf of local Gulf, BP has also agreed as part of the Medical Benefits Class Action government entities.
The judges order dismissed plaintiffs state law Settlement to provide $105 million to the Gulf Region Health Outreach claims and limited the types of maritime law claims plaintiffs may pursue, Program to improve the availability, scope and quality of healthcare in but also held that the plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged presentment of certain Gulf Coast communities.
This healthcare outreach programme will their claims under OPA 90 and that certain local government entity be available to, and is intended to benefit, class members and other claimants may seek punitive damages under general maritime law.
The individuals in those communities.
judge did not, however, lift an earlier stay on the underlying 166 Additional disclosures BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Additional disclosures Each agreement provides that class members will be compensated for their Trust fund, payments under the PSC settlement will be made by BP claims on a claims-made basis, according to agreed compensation protocols directly and charged to the income statement.
in separate court-supervised claims processes.
The compensation protocols Significant uncertainties exist in relation to the amount of claims that are under the Economic and Property Damages Settlement provide for the to be paid and will become payable through the claims process.
There is payment of class members economic losses and property damages.
In significant uncertainty in relation to the amounts that ultimately will be addition many economic and property damages class members will receive paid in relation to current claims, and the number, type and amounts payments based on negotiated risk transfer premiums RTPs, which are payable for claims not yet reported.
In addition, there is further uncertainty multiplication factors designed, in part, to compensate claimants for in relation to interpretations of the claims administrator regarding the potential future damages that are not currently known, relating to the protocols under the Economic and Property Damages Settlement and Incident.
The Economic and Property Damages Settlement and the Medical judicial interpretation of these protocols, and the outcomes of any further Benefits Class Action Settlement are not an admission of liability by BP.
The litigation including in relation to potential opt-outs from the settlement or settlements are uncapped except for economic loss claims related to the otherwise.
While BP has determined its current best estimate of the cost Gulf seafood industry under the Economic and Property Damages of those aspects of the Settlements that can be measured reliably, it is Settlement and the $105 million to be provided to the Gulf Region Health possible that the actual cost could be significantly higher than this Outreach Program under the Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement.
estimate due to the uncertainties noted above.
In addition, a provision will be re-established for remaining business economic loss claims and the As part of its monitoring of payments made by the court-supervised claims processes operated by the Deepwater Horizon Court Supervised Settlement estimate will increase as more information becomes available, the interpretation of the protocols is clarified and the claims process matures, Program DHCSSP for the Economic and Property Damages Settlement, BP identified multiple business economic loss claim determinations that enabling BP to estimate reliably the cost of these claims.
For more information, see Financial statements Note 36 on pages 236-239 of this appeared to result from an interpretation of the Economic and Property Damages Settlement Agreement by that settlements claims administrator report.
that BP believes was incorrect.
This interpretation produced a higher All class member settlements under these agreements are payable under number and value of awards than the interpretation BP assumed in making the terms of the Trust.
Other costs to be paid from the Trust include State the initial estimate.
Pursuant to the mechanisms in the Economic and and Local government claims, state and local response costs, natural Property Damages Settlement Agreement, the claims administrator sought resource damages and related claims, and final judgments and settlements.
clarification from the court on this matter and on 30 January 2013, the court The Trust may not be sufficient to satisfy all of these claims including those initially upheld the claims administrators interpretation of the agreement.
Should the Trust not be sufficient, On 6 February 2013, the court reconsidered and vacated its ruling of 30 payments under the settlement agreements would be made by BP directly.
January 2013 and stayed the processing of certain types of business economic loss claims.
The court lifted the stay on 28 February 2013.
Other The Economic and Property Damages Settlement provides for a transition business economic loss claims have continued to be paid at a higher from the Gulf Coast Claims Facility GCCF to a new court-supervised average amount than previously assumed by BP in determining its initial claims programme, to administer payments made to qualifying class estimate of the total cost.
On 5 March 2013, the court affirmed the claims members.
A court-supervised transitional claims process was in operation administrators interpretation of the agreement and rejected BPs position as while the infrastructure for the new settlement claims process was put in it relates to business economic loss claims.
BP strongly disagrees with the place.
During this transitional period now concluded, the processing of ruling of 5 March 2013 and the current implementation of the agreement by claims that have been submitted to the GCCF continued, and new the claims administrator.
BP intends to pursue all available legal options, claimants submitted their claims.
BP agreed not to wait for final approval including rights of appeal, to challenge this ruling.
of the Economic and Property Damages Settlement to pay claims.
The economic and property damages claims process is under court BP initially estimated the cost of the Settlements, including claims supervision through the settlement claims process established by the administration costs, to be approximately $7.8 billion including the $2.3- Economic and Property Damages Settlement.
billion commitment to help resolve economic loss claims related to the Gulf seafood industry.
During the third quarter 2012, BP increased its estimate Under the Economic and Property Damages Settlement, class members of the cost of claims administration by $280 million, and during the fourth release and dismiss their claims against BP not expressly reserved by that quarter by a further $400 million as described in Financial statements Note agreement.
The Economic and Property Damages Settlement also 36 on pages 236-239 herein.
Subsequently, management has continued to provides that, to the extent permitted by law, BP assigns to the PSC analyse the business economic loss claims in the period since 5 February certain of its claims, rights and recoveries against Transocean and 2013 to gain a better understanding of whether or not the number and Halliburton for damages with protections such that Transocean and average value of claims received and processed to date are predictive of Halliburton cannot pass those damages through to BP.
Under the Medical future claims and so would allow management to estimate the total cost of Benefits Class Action Settlement, class members release and dismiss the Settlements reliably.
Management has concluded based upon this their claims against BP covered by that settlement, except that class analysis that it is not possible to determine whether this claims experience members do not release claims for Later-Manifested Physical Conditions.
to date is, or is not, an appropriate basis for determining the total cost.
On 2 May 2012, the court overseeing the federal multi-district litigation Therefore, given the inherent uncertainty that exists as BP pursues all proceedings pending in New Orleans MDL 2179 issued orders available legal options to challenge the recent ruling and the higher number preliminarily and conditionally certifying the Economic and Property of claims received and higher average claims payments than previously Damages Settlement Class and the Medical Benefits Settlement Class assumed by BP which may or may not continue, management has and preliminarily approving the proposed Economic and Property concluded that no reliable estimate can be made of any business economic Damages Settlement and the proposed Medical Benefits Class Action loss claims not yet received or processed by the DHCSSP.
Under US federal law, there is an established procedure for BPs current estimate of the total cost of those elements of the determining the fairness, reasonableness and adequacy of class action Settlements that can be estimated reliably, which excludes any future settlements.
Pursuant to this procedure, an extensive notice programme business economic loss claims not yet received or processed by the to the public was implemented to explain the settlement agreements and DHCSSP, is $7.7 billion.
If BP is successful in its challenge to the courts class members rights, including the right to opt out of the classes, and ruling, the total estimated cost of the Settlements will, nevertheless, be the processes for making claims.
The court set a deadline of 31 August significantly higher than the current estimate of $7.7 billion, because 2012 later extended to 7 September 2012 for class members objecting business economic loss claims not yet received or processed are not to the Economic and Property Damages Settlement and or the Medical reflected in the current estimate and the average payments per claim Benefits Class Action Settlement to file their objections with the court and determined so far are higher than anticipated.
If BP is not successful in its a deadline of 1 October 2012 later extended to 1 November 2012 for challenge to the courts ruling, a further significant increase to the total class members to opt out of the Economic and Property Damages Class estimated cost of the Settlements will be required.
However, there can be and or the Medical Benefits Settlement Class.
The Deepwater Horizon no certainty as to how the dispute will ultimately be resolved or Court Supervised Settlement Program DHCSSP, the new claims facility determined.
To the extent that there are insufficient funds available in the operating under the frameworks established by the Economic and Additional disclosures 167 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Property Damages Settlement, commenced operation on 4 June 2012 negligence per se, and preserving their claims for negligence and gross under the oversight of Claims Administrator Patrick Juneau.
The court negligence only to the extent there has been a physical injury to a conducted a fairness hearing on 8 November 2012 in which to consider, proprietary interest of the states.
The court in MDL 2179 has also set a among other things, whether to grant final approval of the Economic and schedule for targeted discovery and motions on the legal issue of whether Property Damages Settlement and the Medical Benefits Class Action the Mexican States of Quintana Roo, Tamaulipas, and Veracruz have a Settlement, whether to certify the classes for settlement purposes only, justiciable claim.
BP, other defendants, and the three Mexican States filed and the merits of any objections to the settlement agreements.
At the cross-motions for summary judgment on 4 January 2013 on the issue of fairness hearing, the parties and objecting class members presented whether the Mexican States have a proprietary interest in the matters arguments for and against the approval of each settlement agreement and asserted in their complaints, and the motions remain pending.
On 5 April the certification of each settlement class.
On 21 November 2012, the 2011, the State of Yucatan submitted a claim to the GCCF alleging parties to the settlement filed a list of 13,123 individuals and entities who potential damage to its natural resources and environment, and seeking to had submitted timely requests to opt out of the Economic and Property recover the cost of assessing the alleged damage.
BP anticipates further Damages Settlement Class and 1,638 individuals who had submitted claims from the Mexican federal government.
timely requests to opt out of the Medical Benefits Settlement Class.
On On 18 October 2012, before a Federal District Court located in Mexico City, 16 November 2012, the court extended the deadline from 5 November a class action complaint was filed against BPXP, BP America Production 2012 to 15 December 2012 for such excluded persons or entities to Company, and other companies affiliated with BP.
The plaintiffs, consisting request revocation of their requests to opt out of the settlement.
As a of fishermen and other groups, are seeking, among other things, result of such revocations, the number of opt-outs for the Economic and compensatory damages for the class members who allegedly suffered Property Damages Settlement and the Medical Benefits Class Action economic losses, as well as an order requiring BP to remediate Settlement is fewer than those reported figures.
environmental damage resulting from the Incident and to provide funding for Following the fairness hearing, both settlements were approved by the the preservation of the environment and to conduct environmental impact district court.
The Economic and Property Damages Settlement was studies in the Gulf of Mexico for the next 10 years.
Plaintiffs have not yet approved on 21 December 2012 in a final order and judgment, and the properly served the BP entities named as Defendants.
Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement was approved by the district Citizens groups have also filed either lawsuits or notices of intent to file court in a final order and judgment on 11 January 2013.
Since 17 January lawsuits seeking civil penalties and injunctive relief under the Clean Water 2013, eight groups of purported members of the Economic and Property Act and other environmental statutes.
On 16 June 2011, the judge in the Damages Settlement Class have filed notices of appeal to the US Court of federal multi-district litigation proceeding in New Orleans granted BPs Appeals for the Fifth Circuit of the final order and judgment approving the motion to dismiss a master complaint raising claims for injunctive relief Economic and Property Damages Settlement.
Two groups of purported under various federal environmental statutes brought by various citizens members of the Medical Benefits Settlement Class have also appealed groups and others.
The judge did not, however, lift an earlier stay on the from the final order and judgment approving the Medical Benefits Class underlying individual complaints raising those claims for injunctive relief or Action Settlement.
Additionally, a coalition of fishing and community otherwise apply his dismissal of the master complaint to those individual groups has appealed from an order of the district court denying it complaints.
In addition, a different set of environmental groups filed a permission to intervene in the civil action serving as the vehicle for the motion to reconsider dismissal of their Endangered Species Act claims on Economic and Property Damages Settlement and further denying it 14 July 2011.
On 31 January 2012, the permission to take discovery regarding the fairness of that settlement.
court, on motion by the Center for Biological Diversity, entered final On 18 January 2013, a purported class action was filed in federal district judgment on the basis of the 16 June 2011 order with respect to two court in New Orleans seeking relief for all persons alleging losses caused actions brought against BP by that plaintiff.
On 2 February 2012, the by the Incident who are excluded from or have opted out of the Economic Center for Biological Diversity filed a notice of appeal of both actions.
On 8 February 2013, the action was Following oral argument, the Court of Appeals ruled in BPs favour on consolidated with MDL 2179.
9 January 2013 in virtually all respects, though it remanded the Center for Biological Diversitys claim under the Emergency Planning and On 11 July 2012, BP filed motions to dismiss several categories of claims Community Right to Know Act to the district court.
On 22 January 2013, in MDL 2179 that were not covered by the Economic and Property the Center for Biological Diversity filed a Petition for Panel Rehearing in Damages Settlement.
On 1 October 2012, the court granted BPs motion, the Court of Appeals, which was denied on 4 February 2013. dismissing 1 claims alleging a reduction in the value of real property caused by the oil spill or other contaminant where the property was not On 1 March 2012, the court in MDL 2179 issued a partial final judgment physically touched by the oil and the property was not sold: 2 claims by dismissing with prejudice all claims by BP, Anadarko and MOEX for or on behalf of entities marketing BP-branded fuels that they have additional insured coverage under insurance policies issued to Transocean suffered damages, including loss of business, income, and profits, as a for the sub-surface pollution liabilities BP, Anadarko and MOEX have result of the loss of value to the BP brand or name: and 3 claims by or incurred and will incur with respect to the Macondo well oil release.
BP on behalf of recreational fishermen, recreational divers, beachgoers, filed a notice of appeal from the courts judgment to the US Court of recreational boaters, and similar claimants, that they have suffered Appeals for the Fifth Circuit and oral argument was conducted on damages that include loss of enjoyment of life from the inability to use of 3 December 2012.
On 1 March 2013, the appeals court reversed the the Gulf of Mexico for recreation and amusement purposes.
The judge did district courts judgment, rejecting the district courts ruling that the not, however, lift an earlier stay on the underlying individual complaints insurance that BP is entitled to receive as an additional insured under the raising those claims or otherwise apply his dismissal of those categories Transocean insurance policies at issue is limited to the scope of the of claims to those individual complaints.
This order was appealed to the indemnity in the drilling contract between BP and Transocean.
US Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, but the appeal was dismissed for In addition, BP is aware that actions have been or may be brought under want of prosecution on 28 January 2013.
On 19 February 2013, the the Qui Tam whistle-blower provisions of the False Claims Act FCA.
On appeals court granted appellants motion to reinstate the appeal, and BP 17 December 2012, the court ordered unsealed one complaint that had moved to dismiss the appeal for lack of jurisdiction.
been filed in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana by On 15 September 2010, three Mexican states bordering the Gulf of one individual under the FCAs Qui Tam provisions.
The complaint alleged Mexico Veracruz, Quintana Roo, and Tamaulipas filed lawsuits in federal that BP and another defendant had made false reports and certifications of court in Texas against several BP entities.
These lawsuits allege that the the amount of oil released into the Gulf of Mexico following the Incident.
Incident harmed their tourism, fishing, and commercial shipping industries On 17 December 2012, the DoJ filed with the court a notice that the DoJ resulting in, among other things, diminished tax revenue, damaged elected to decline to intervene in the action.
natural resources and the environment, and caused the states to incur expenses in preparing a response to the Incident.
On 9 December 2011, the judge in the federal multi-district litigation proceeding in New Orleans granted in part BPs motion to dismiss the three Mexican states complaints, dismissing their claims under OPA 90 and for nuisance and 168 Additional disclosures BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
