Director independence How the board works The governance principles require the non-executive directors to be independent in character and judgement and free from any business or BPs governance framework other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of BPs system of governance begins with the board and is reected in the their judgement.
The board has determined that those non-executive governance of our subsidiaries.
The governance framework is outlined in directors who served during 2012 were and continued to be independent.
the BP board governance principles which sets out the role of the board, The board also satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the its processes and its relationship with executive management.
These can independence of, or existence of conicts of interest for those directors be found on bp.
who serve together as directors on the boards of outside entities or who have other appointments in outside entities.
These issues are considered The boards core activities are: on a regular basis at each board meeting.
The nomination committee The active consideration of long-term strategy.
keeps under review the nature of non-executive directors other interests to ensure that the effectiveness of the board is not compromised.
The monitoring of executive action and the performance of BP.
Obtaining assurance that the material risks to BP are identied Succession: board and committee membership and that systems of risk management and control are in place The following changes took place to the composition of the board in 2012: to mitigate such risks.
Ongoing board and executive management succession t Dr Brian Gilvary joined the board as an executive director and planning.
chief financial officer on 1 January 2012.
The board seeks to set the tone from the top for the organization by t Andrew Shilston joined the board as a non-executive director on considering specic issues, including health, safety, the environment and 1 January 2012, and became senior independent director from April BPs reputation and works with management to set the values of the 2012. company, which are then reected in more detail in the companys code t Professor Dame Ann Dowling joined the board as a non-executive of conduct.
director on 3 February 2012. t Sir William Castell retired from the board at the AGM in April 2012.
As at 31 December 2012 the board had 15 directors a chairman, four Dr Byron Grote, executive director with responsibility for BPs integrated executive directors and 10 non-executive directors see page 104. supply and trading operations, Alternative Energy, shipping, technology The nomination committee keeps the composition of the board under and remediation activities will retire from the board at the AGM in April review from the perspective of the mix of skills and experience of existing 2013. members and the likely tenure of each director.
Details of the current Changes to committee membership during 2012 included Ian Davis skillset of the board and the skills competencies that the nomination stepping down as a member of the audit committee on 3 February 2012 committee has prioritized for future non-executive director appointments and Admiral Frank Bowman joining the Gulf of Mexico committee on the is outlined in the report of the nomination committee on pages 125-126. same date.
Upon their appointment to the board, Andrew Shilston joined the audit committee and Professor Dame Ann Dowling joined the safety, Role of the chairman ethics and environment assurance committee SEEAC.
Professor The board is chaired by Carl-Henric Svanberg.
The chairman provides Dowling later joined the remuneration committee on 25 July 2012. leadership of the board and is the main point of contact between the Following the retirement of Sir William Castell in April, Brendan Nelson board and management.
The chairman speaks on behalf of the board to and Paul Anderson joined the nomination committee.
Andrew Shilston, shareholders and other parties and ensures that systems are in place to who succeeded Sir William as senior independent director, attends the provide directors with accurate, timely and clear information to enable the committee in this capacity.
board to consider matters before it and is also responsible for the integrity and effectiveness of the BP board governance principles.
Ad-hoc board committee Russia An ad-hoc board committee was established in June 2012 to oversee Role of the group chief executive issues relating to the sale of BPs share in TNK-BP.
This committee, Bob Dudley is the group chief executive.
Through delegation from the known as the Russia committee, is chaired by Antony Burgmans and board he is responsible for executive management of the group and is membership includes Andrew Shilston and Paul Anderson.
Carl-Henric supported by the executive team, which he chairs.
Membership of the Svanberg and Bob Dudley attend the committee meetings.
The executive team is set out on pages 109-111. committee received regular and detailed reports on the process for the sale of the companys stake in TNK-BP and supported the proposal to the Role of the senior independent director board of the binding sale and purchase agreements that were eventually The senior independent director SID is Andrew Shilston, who is available executed with Rosneft.
The committee will continue to receive updates to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be addressed through through to closing of the agreements with Rosneft currently anticipated normal channels.
to occur in the first half of 2013.
In view of the relatively short service of Andrew Shilston, Antony Burgmans, the longest serving non-executive director acts as an internal sounding board for the chairman and serves as intermediary for the other directors with the chairman when necessary.
Neither the chairman nor the SID are employed as executives of the group.
The board maintains a succession plan for the chairman and SID, in addition to the group chief executive and senior management.
112 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
