The committee discussed the time commitment for non-executive Committee activities directors.
The letters of appointment for BP non-executive directors do The committee held private discussions between the non-executive not state a time commitment and this is explained annually as part of the directors during the year on a number of key issues for BP.
compliance statement with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The committee took the view that it would be articial to set such a metric.
The committee carried out the evaluation of the chairman and the chief The experience of the board over the past three years was that directors executive early in the year.
The committee also set the parameters for had been required to spend such time as was necessary on the business these evaluations to take place in early 2013. of the company.
Whilst it was hoped that the work of the board and its The committee received a recommendation from the nomination committees would not be as intense in coming years, it was important committee for the appointment of a senior independent director to replace that directors were able to respond promptly.
The committee would keep Sir William Castell who was to stand down in April 2012.
The committee under review the attendance and commitment of board members.
agreed to recommend to the board that Andrew Shilston be appointed the The committee reviewed the periods of service of the non-executive SID: however Antony Burgmans, as longest serving non-executive directors and noted the substantial refreshment of the board over the past director would act as the focal point for internal board matters and would three years.
The committee was strongly of the view that continuity of lead the evaluation of the chairman.
service and corporate memory was important to the boards working and The committee reviewed the membership of the board committees and accordingly agreed with Antony Burgmans that he would remain as a agreed certain modications.
director for a further three-year period.
In coming to this view the committee considered his clarity of thought and his approach in evaluating In addition, during 2012 the committee considered: the events of the last few years and concluded that he remained t The views of some shareholders as relayed by the chairman and the independent in his judgement.
The committee further noted that since senior independent director.
2004 all directors on the board had been subject to annual re-election.
t On several occasions, with the chief executive officer, the strategic Sir William Castell stood down from the board and as senior independent direction of the group.
The committee discussed Sir Williams successor as t Again with the chief executive officer, the composition and evolution of SID on two occasions and made recommendations to the chairmans the top management team and the implications of the implementation committee on appropriate candidates.
t The information available to the board.
Committee evaluation At the end of the year, the committee undertook an annual examination of its effectiveness and performance, using a questionnaire.
As part of its evaluation, the committee considered its role and its task for the year.
The evaluation concluded that the committee had worked well and had improved its focus on diversity.
Going forward the committee wishes to focus on agenda setting and papers with a view to improving time management and workload.
Chairmans committee Committee members Carl-Henric Svanberg committee chair Paul Anderson Admiral Frank Bowman Antony Burgmans Cynthia Carroll Sir William Castell retired from the committee in April 2012 George David UK Corporate Governance Code Ian Davis Professor Dame Ann Dowling joined the committee February 2012 compliance Brendan Nelson Phuthuma Nhleko BP complied throughout 2012 with the provisions of the UK Corporate Andrew Shilston joined the committee January 2012 Governance Code, except in the following aspects: The committee met eight times during 2012.
3.2 Letters of appointment do not set out xed time commitments since the schedule of board and committee meetings is subject to Committee role and structure change according to the demands of business and other events.
The committee is comprised of the chairman and all the non-executive All directors are expected to demonstrate their commitment to the work of the board on an ongoing basis.
This is reviewed by the directors.
nomination committee in recommending candidates for annual The main tasks of the committee are: re-election.
t Evaluating the performance and effectiveness of the group chief D. 2.2 The remuneration of the chairman is not set by the remuneration executive.
Instead the chairmans remuneration is reviewed by the remuneration committee which makes a recommendation to t Reviewing the structure and effectiveness of the business organization of BP.
the board as a whole for final approval, within the limits set by shareholders.
We believe this wider process lets all board members t Reviewing the systems for senior executive development and discuss and approve the chairmans remuneration rather than determining the succession plan for the group chief executive, solely the members of the remuneration committee.
executive directors and other senior members of executive management.
E. 2.4 Printed copies of the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 completed mailing outside of the Governance Code period of 20 t Determining any other matter which is appropriate to be considered working days before the AGM but within the UK Companies Act by all of the non-executive directors.
This was due to printing being delayed following t Opining on any matter referred to it by the chairman of any committee revisions to the report in view of the class action settlements agreed comprised solely of non-executive directors.
with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee PSC on 3 March 2012.
126 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
