Governance Board of Directors Board of Directors Sir Michael Rake Ian Livingston Tony Chanmugam Gavin Patterson d e f a f a a e Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director CEO, BT Retail Appointed to the Board as Appointed as Chief Executive on Appointed to the Board as Group Appointed to the Board as CEO, Chairman on 26September 2007.
1June 2008 and on the Board Finance Director on 1 December BT Retail on 1 June 2008.
Age 58 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Gavin has experience in sales, Sir Michael has financial, risk, Ian has financial, risk, operational, Tony has experience in finance, marketing and operations.
He and international business and sales and marketing and risk and the management and was formerly Managing Director, professional services expertise international business experience.
Consumer Division, BT Retail and gained during his time as He joined Dixons Group in 1991 He was formerly CFO, BT before joining BT was managing chairman of KPMG International after working for 3i and Bank Retail, and Managing Director, director of the consumer division from 2002 to 2007.
His BTEnterprises and, from 1997 of Telewest.
previously held other roles in positions at Dixons spanned to 2004, he was CFO and then Other appointments include KPMG from 1974.
A Chartered operational and financial roles Chief Operating officer of BT Non-executive director of Accountant, he was knighted in the UK and overseas.
in 2007 for his services to the Chartered Accountant.
Other appointments include Other appointments Other appointments include Non-executive director and None outside BT.
Chairman of easyJet, senior chairman of the audit committee independent director of Barclays of Celtic.
and a non-executive director of McGraw-Hill.
Sir Michael is also vice-president of the RNIB, a member of the board of the Transatlantic Business Dialogue, the Prime Ministers Business Advisory Group and the WEF International Business Council.
Key to membership of Board Committees a d g Operating Nominating & Governance Equality of Access Board b e Audit & Risk Sustainable and Responsible Business c f Remuneration BT Pensions Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview 64 Governance Board of Directors Tony Ball J Eric Daniels Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt Phil Hodkinson c d c d b c d f b d e f g Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on 16 July 2009.
Age 54 Senior Independent Director in Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience July 2009.
Age 63 Tony brings international business Eric has global business Phil has experience in the financial expertise in addition to financial, experience, particularly in Skills and experience sector as well as risk, control, operational, sales and marketing financial and consumer matters.
Patricia brings experience governance and sustainable experience.
From 1999 to 2003 He was group chief executive of running large complex business.
Prior to his retirement Tony was chief executive of of Lloyds Banking Group until organisations, government affairs, in 2007, Phils roles included BSkyB.
He has also held a number March 2011.
Formerly he was public policy and international group finance director of HBOS, of senior executive positions chairman and chief executive of business.
Patricia stepped down as chairman of Insight Investment in broadcasting and telecoms ZonaFinanciera.
She and Clerical Medical and chief businesses in the UK, US and was Secretary of State for Health executive of Zurich Life and Eagle Other appointments include Continental Europe.
from 2005 to 2007 and Trade and Star Life.
Director of Russell Reynolds Industry and Cabinet Minister for Other appointments include Associates and a trustee of the UK Other appointments include Women from 2001 to 2005.
Chairman of the supervisory board Career Academy Foundation.
Non-executive director of of Kabel Deutschland, and on the Other appointments include HMRevenue & Customs, Business boards of the Olympic Delivery Independent non-executive in the Community, Travelex and Authority London 2012 and the director of Groupe Eurotunnel SA Resolution.
Also a trustee of Spanish cable company ONO.
and chair of the UK India Business Action Medical Research and Council and Katha Childrens Trust.
Jasmine Whitbread Karen Richardson Nicholas Rose b e b c Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on 19January 2011.
Age 54 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Jasmine has experience in UK With a 25 year career in the Nick brings experience in finance, and global businesses and technology and software industry, risk, control, governance and corporate social responsibility Karen brings experience in international business expertise and sustainable business.
She technology to the Board.
Karen and has a record of innovation was appointed chief executive of was previously a board member of and delivery.
He was chief Save the Children International i2Group and from 1998 to 2005 financial officer of Diageo prior to in 2010, having joined Save the Karen worked for the NASDAQhis retirement in December 2010, Children in 2005. listed software company having joined the board in 1999.
Epiphany Inc, latterly as chief Other appointments include Other appointments include executiveofcer.
Chairman of Williams Grand Governor of Dragon School Trust.
Other appointments include Prix Holdings, on the board of Director of magi-com formerly BAE Systems, and chairman of Hi5 Networks Inc, a social EdwardsGroup.
networking website, and VirtuOz, a software company.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
