Governance How we govern the company How we govern the company Our governance structure The Board has ultimate responsibility for the management of the group, and has structured its Committees as follows: BT Group plc Board Audit & Risk Nominating & Remuneration BT Pensions Committee for Equality of Operating Committee Governance Committee Committee Sustainable and Access Board Committee Committee Responsible Business Design Council The reports of the following Committees are set out on pages 70 to 88: Audit & Risk Committee: Nominating & Governance Committee: BT Pensions Committee: Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business CSRB and Remuneration Committee.
The Equality of Access Board EAB, is also a Committee of the Board and monitors, reports and advises BT on its compliance with the Undertakings given by BT to Ofcom the Undertakings.
Phil Hodkinson took over from Carl Symon as Chairman of the EAB in January and the other members are: Dr Tim Whitley Managing Director of Research & Technology a BT senior executive: and three independent members: SirBryan Carsberg, Stephen Pettit and Dr Peter Radley.
The EAB reports regularly to the Board and publishes an annual report to Ofcom.
The EABs terms of reference and annual report to Ofcom are available at www.
com eab Director election and re-election Company Secretary Karen Richardson, having been appointed as a director by the Board during the year, will retire at the 2012 Annual General Meeting and will Andrew Parker was appointed Company be proposed for election as required by BTs Articles of Association.
All Secretary on 1 April 2008 and is an other directors, except Eric Daniels, who steps down from the Board on employer-nominated trustee director of 13 June 2012, will be proposed for re-election this year.
Details of all the BT Pension Scheme.
directors contracts letters of appointment are included in the Report The Company Secretary: on Directors Remuneration.
manages the provision of timely, Andrew Parker accurate and considered information Length of appointment of Chairman and non-executive directors to the Board for its meetings and, in consultation with the Chairman and Feb 2006 Chief Executive, at other appropriate times Phil Hodkinson Sep 2007 recommends to the Chairman and the Chief Executive, for Sir Michael Rake Board consideration where appropriate, corporate governance March 2008 Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt policies and practices and is responsible for communicating and implementing them April 2008 Eric Daniels advises the Board on appropriate procedures for the July 2009 Tony Ball management of its meetings and duties and those of the Jan 2011 Jasmine Whitbread main Committees, as well as corporate governance and compliance within the group.
Jan 2011 Nick Rose The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a Nov 2011 Karen Richardson matter for the whole Board.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Calendar year Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
