74 Governance Reports of the Board Committees BT Pensions Committee Chairs report We also report and make recommendations to BTPS performance the Board on: We received regular reports on the performance of the BTPS and held two joint matters which we consider are of strategic meetings with the BTPS Trustee board in 2012 importance to BT to discuss the BTPS performance, investment matters involving a significant strategy and any proposed changes.
financial impact of over 100m in accordance with the key policies of BTs Risk management GovernanceFramework We considered and agreed, where appropriate, the BTPS triennial funding valuation and proposals for pensions risk reduction activities.
associated recovery plan We have reviewed various risk management strategic changes to benets that require strategies in the year and agreed that any Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt rule changes or changes to the BTPS Trust exercises providing additional options to Deed and Rules.
members must include transparent, clear and comprehensive communications.
Who we are What we have done I chair the BT Pensions Committee, and the We met five times in 2012 and the chart below Global pensions benets membership of the Committee and attendance shows how we allocated our time.
We regularly considered reports from the at meetings is set out below: executive management group on policy and Allocation of time strategy matters significant to the BT group in Committee members relation to all BT pension and benefit schemes 6% other than the BTPS.
Meetings 8% Eligible Crown Guarantee 35% Member to attend Attended 12% We received regular reports, agreed the Rt Hon Patricia approach to and monitored progress of the Hewitt Chair 5 5 Crown Guarantee case which was heard in the Sir Michael Rake 5 4 High Court during the year.
Phil Hodkinson 5 5 15% Ian Livingston 5 4 a Alex Wilson 10 24% b Clare Chapman 44 Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt a Chair of the BT Pensions Committee Alex Wilson retired from the Committee on Other matters Triennial valuation 31October2011.
9 May 2012 BTPS performance Global pensions b Clare Chapman joined the Committee on benets Risk management 1January2012.
Crown Guarantee Our work fell into five main areas: Our role Triennial valuation The Committees terms of reference We received regular reports on the progress are available on our website at of the triennial funding valuation process www.
com committees and Trustee negotiations.
We recommended the approach to the 2011 triennial funding Our activities are principally focused on valuation and recovery plan for final oversight of the BT Pension Scheme BTPS.
The Committee With input and recommendations from endorsed the proposal to move the date for executive management, we are responsible triennial valuations from 31December to for: reviewing and approving BTs risk 30June with effect from June2011, enabling management activities in relation to the the Trustee and BT to complete the valuation BTPS: monitoring performance of the BTPS: within BT's financial year.
We believe that the discussing the BTPS investment strategy, and agreement reached between the company considering matters of policy and strategy and the Trustee is good for BTPS members, concerning pensions that are significant to our investors and other stakeholders.
a significant workstream in the year and the valuation results are discussed in more detail on page 58.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
