Governance Reports of the Board Committees Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business Chairmans report Committee members Meetings Eligible Member to attend Attended Sir Michael Rake Chairman 4 4 a Clay Brendish Non-executive director 1 0 b Clare Chapman Group People Director 1 1 Lord Michael Hastings Independent member 4 3 Phil Hodkinson Non-executive director 4 4 Baroness Margaret Jay Independent member 4 4 Dame Ellen MacArthur Independent member 4 3 Gavin Patterson Executive director 4 4 Sir Michael Rake Larry Stone President Group Public and 43 Government Affairs Jasmine Whitbread Non-executive director 4 3 Who we are c Alex Wilson Group HR Director 2 0 The membership of the Committee for a Sustainable and Responsible Business CSRB Clay Brendish retired from the Committee on 31 August 2011. b Clare Chapman joined the Committee 1 January 2012. is set out opposite.
With the exception of c Alex Wilson retired from the Committee on 31 October 2011.
Clare Chapman, Group People Director, all other Committee members served throughout directed by the Committee and activities A key development supported by us was the the year.
In addition, Niall Dunne, the Chief embedded in the lines of business.
Investment launch in April 2011 of MyDonate, which Sustainability officer, attends all meetings at comprises contributions in cash and also in allows individuals to make donations to the invitation of the Committee.
charities without the deduction of any charges The Committee has a diverse membership, which from the donation.
Further information on is designed to bring as wide a range of views as MyDonate can be found on page 164.
What we have done possible to the review of corporate responsibility The CSRB met four times in 2012.
We have and sustainable business withinBT.
I, and the other members of the CSRB, are overseen and approved investment in projects always keen to see first hand the impact of the which make a difference for the communities Our role projects in the communities that we support.
in which we operate and our environment with This year we travelled to South Wales and With input and recommendations from a focus on building stronger communities both visited Valley Kids, a Get IT together digital executive management we develop the through the use of technology and supporting inclusion project, Care & Repair Cymru and corporate responsibility Better Future strategy volunteering activities of employees.
The St John Cymru who have all received support for the group globally including wholly-owned investment is split 55:45 between volunteering either through direct funding or volunteering subsidiaries for approval by the Board.
We activities by our employees and cash funding.
oversee corporate responsibility, environment The investment by the group in 2012 was and community activities, including charitable 31.9m in time, cash and in-kind support and expenditure and the strategy for maximising broken down into strategic priorities as follows: our contribution to society.
This role is also an Sir Michael Rake integral part of meeting the strategic priority Investment by strategic priority Chairman of the Committee for Sustainable of the company being a responsible and and Responsible Business sustainable business leader.
1.6% 11.7% 9 May 2012 The Committees terms of reference are available from the Company Secretary.
We also interact with the independent Leadership Advisory Panel the Panel chaired by Jonathon Porritt.
The Panel provides advice on corporate responsibility issues, and the Panel Chair attends one CSRB meeting per year.
The Panel produces an annual statement which is set out in our Better Future report.
86.7% The group annually approves investment for Building stronger Reducing environmental sustainable and responsible business.
For the communities impact year ended 31 March 2012, this investment Behaving responsibly target was a minimum of 1% of adjusted profit before taxation based on 2011 results.
This investment is split between programmes Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
