66 Governance How we govern the company Role of the Board Who we are Our role Details of the companys directors including the skills and experience The Board is ultimately responsible for the management of the groups that they bring to the Board are given on pages 63 and 64 in Board operations in addition to discharging certain legal responsibilities.
The Board comprised a majority of independent nonhas final responsibility for the groups strategy and for overseeing the executive directors throughout the year.
Changes to the composition of the Board from 1 April 2011 are set out Its principal focus is on: in the table below: New directors Date of appointment Strategy Karen Richardson 1 November 2011 Development Directors who retired Date of retirement Clay Brendish 31 August 2011 Growing shareholder value Carl Symon 13 January 2012 The Board viewed the Chairman as independent at the time of his Oversight and control appointment.
All the non-executive directors met, and continue to meet, the criteria for independence set out in the Code and are Corporate governance therefore considered by the Board to be independent.
Attendance at Board meetings The Board met nine times during 2012 and the table below shows the It approves BTs: attendance by each of the directors at those meetings.
Values, ethics and business policies and practices Board members Meetings Eligible Member to attend Attended Strategic plans Sir Michael Rake Chairman 9 9 Ian Livingston 9 9 Annual budget Tony Chanmugam 9 9 Gavin Patterson 9 9 Tony Ball 9 9 Capital expenditure and investments budgets a Clay Brendish 44 Eric Daniels 9 9 Larger capital expenditure proposals Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt 9 9 Phil Hodkinson 9 9 The overall system of internal controls, governance b and compliance authorities Karen Richardson 44 Nick Rose 9 8 c Carl Symon 76 It also oversees internal controls, operating and financial performance Jasmine Whitbread 9 8 and reviews the Group Risk Register.
a Clay Brendish retired from the Board on 31 August 2011.
It agrees the corporate governance framework, including giving b Karen Richardson was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2011. authority to the key management Committee, the Operating c Carl Symon retired from the Board on 13 January 2012.
Committee, to make decisions on operational and other matters.
The roles and powers of this Committee are set out on page 69.
The level of attendance and contribution by directors at Board meetings is kept under review by the Chairman.
The Chairman met with each A formal statement of the Boards role is available at director on an individual basis and reviewed their performance.
com board found that each of them makes an effective contribution to the Board debate and continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
The Chairman also reviewed with individual directors any training or development requirements to assist them in discharging their role.
The Chairmans performance during the year was reviewed by Patricia Hewitt as the Senior Independent Director, taking into account the feedback from the other members of the Board including as contained within the external evaluation exercise.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview Governance How we govern the company Roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Role of the non-executive directors The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separate.
They The non-executive directors: are set out in written job descriptions, approved by the Nominating & provide a strong, independent element on the Board and are well Governance Committee.
placed to challenge constructively and help develop proposals onstrategy The Chairman The Chairman provides leadership for the Board on all aspects of its role.
collectively bring experience and independent judgment, gained His key activities include: at the most senior levels of international business operations and strategy, finance, marketing, technology, communications and chairing the Board, Nominating & Governance Committee, and political and international affairs and corporate social responsibility.
the Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business: being a member of the BT Pensions Committee and promoting a culture to In her capacity as the Senior Independent Director, and as the Chair of facilitate open debate and appropriate challenge the Remuneration Committee, Patricia Hewitt meets with BTs major institutional shareholders and shareholder representative bodies and is consulting the non-executive directors on corporate governance able, if necessary, to discuss matters with these shareholders where it issues, particularly the Senior Independent Director would be inappropriate for those discussions to take place with either reviewing the individual performance of the non-executive directors the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
See page 93 for further details.
She and the Chief Executive is also a sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for the other directors when necessary.
holding regular meetings with the non-executive directors at which they discuss matters without the executive directors being present Non-executive directors are appointed initially for three years, subject to three months termination notice from either BT or the director, making sure, with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, and automatic termination in the event of not being re-elected by that the Board is kept properly informed, is consulted on all issues shareholders at the AGM.
Appointments may be extended for usually reserved to it and that its decisions are made in a timely and up to two further three year periods subject to annual re-election, considered way that enables the directors to full their duciary provided the director remains independent, and after rigorous review.
duties Each non-executive director is provided, upon appointment, with a letter making sure that new directors receive full, formal and tailored setting out the terms of his or her appointment, including membership induction, and that all directors continue to update and refresh their of any Board Committees, the fees to be paid and the time commitment skills and knowledge expected from the director.
Each non-executive director is asked to allow making sure that the views of the shareholders are known to the a minimum of 22 days each year, subject to Committee commitments, Board through the Company Secretary and considered appropriately and allowing slightly higher in the first year in order to go through the induction programme.
It is also highlighted that additional time representing BT in specified strategic and Government relationships, commitment may be required if the company is going through increased as agreed with the Chief Executive, and generally acting as the activity.
The letter also covers such matters as the condentiality of bridge between the Board and the executive team, particularly on information and BTs share dealing code.
What we have done The Chief Executive The Chief Executive has ultimate executive responsibility, reporting to The chart below shows how we allocated our time.
the Board, for the day-to-day running of the business and the success of the group.
Allocation of time He is responsible for leading the management and the operational 4% performance of the group, as well as the effective implementation of 4% Strategy the strategy and the business plan agreed by the Board, while managing Finance & investor 14% 31% the risks.
relations Business updates & His role includes: CEO reports leading the Operating Committee in the day-to-day running of Governance, risk & audit thebusiness People and health 23% maintaining an effective dialogue with major shareholders & safety Other matters 24% establishing and maintaining key relationships such as those with governments, regulators, key industry players and opinion formers In addition to the regular monthly reports from the Chief Executive, monitoring the performance of executive directors and Group Finance Director and Company Secretary, each of the lines of seniormanagement business and internal service units presented during the year on their business, including opportunities and challenges.
A number of strategy maintaining an effective framework for internal controls and reviews took place throughout the year, and the Board also considered riskmanagement.
the companys approach to tax and private shareholders and had a review Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview 68 Governance How we govern the company of investor relations and communications activities.
In relation to people, The internal questionnaire for the next annual Board evaluation has the Board received updates on health, safety and well being and a report been distributed and covers the following areas: composition and on talent and leadership development.
In relation to potential conicts effectiveness of the Board: the processes supporting the Board, and of interest, ahead of any discussions on tax, Phil Hodkinson declared that performance.
The results of the questionnaire will be discussed by the he was on the Board of HMRC.
The Board were comfortable there was no Board early in 2013. conict in relation to the matters being discussed.
In addition, the Audit & Risk Committee, Nominating & Governance Committee and the Operating Committee have undertaken an Board evaluation evaluation of their effectiveness.
Boardroom Review, an independent external organisation, was appointed, after a tender exercise, to conduct a Board evaluation.
The Training and information methodology included one-to-one interviews and observation of a On appointment, directors take part in an induction programme to Board meeting to provide an independent external view of the Boards deepen their knowledge and understanding of the business.
A report was produced and discussed at the Board receive information about BT, the role of the Board and the matters meeting in May 2011.
The report described a number of areas where reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership the Board was effective and functioning well.
In addition there were of the main Board Committees, and the powers delegated to those some areas where enhancements could be considered and a number of Committees, BTs corporate governance policies and procedures, actions were agreed by the Board.
Progress against the main actions is including the powers reserved to the groups most senior executives, highlighted in the table below: and the latest financial information.
The induction programme also includes meetings with each of the executive and non-executive Key areas Actions directors, members of the Operating Committee and senior executives Strategy across the business.
Additional time to focus on strategy In addition to the annual Board Following her appointment to the Board in November 2011, Karen strategy session, regular strategy Richardson has completed her induction programme including one-toupdates have been received by the one meetings with the lines of business CEOs, senior executives across Board and are also planned for 2013 the business, attendance at leadership team meetings and a visit to Opportunities to improve A programme has been established Adastral Park.
understanding of the business to give the non-executive directors In addition to the induction programme, an on-going programme of a better appreciation of the different director development and company awareness has been developed elements of BT in the UK and overseas to give the non-executive directors an appreciation of the different Access to wider external Both our corporate brokers have elements of the business both in the UK and overseas.
As mentioned perspective attended separate Board meetings opposite, the Board also visited Adastral Park.
during the year Directors are continually updated on BTs business, the competitive Focus of work and regulatory environments in which it operates and other changes affecting BT and the communications industry as a whole, by written Whether the Audit & Risk Separate annual presentations are briengs and meetings with senior BT executives.
Directors are also Committee members are receiving given by the Chief Executive and each advised on appointment of their legal and other duties and obligations sufficient information to support of the lines of business and internal as a director of a listed company, both in writing and in face-to-face service unit CEOs, to the the extended remit and focus on Audit & meetings with the Company Secretary.
They are reminded of certain risk Risk Committee.
Responses to the obligations each year and they are also updated on changes to the Committee evaluation questionnaire legal, accounting and governance requirements affecting the company did not highlight any concerns and themselves as directors.
During 2012, for example, they attended Board members to have further Continuation of Talent breakfasts a presentation on accounting policies, financial reporting and other with the Chairman and non-executive opportunities to see senior developments, and an annual governance update.
They also received executives directors and one-to-one meetings briengs on changes to UK company law and on various corporate are being arranged governance matters through regular Secretarys Reports.
The Chairman also sends a weekly email to non-executive directors which includes Meetings topical sector highlights and updates on key business activities, and Extend the time to discuss priority Considered on a meeting-by-meeting a monthly Investor Relations and Analyst Relations report is sent to agenda items basis and continued use of working theBoard.
lunch sessions to discuss additional topics Guidelines govern the content, presentation and delivery of papers for each Board meeting, so that the directors have enough information to Consideration of offsite and or During the year a Board meeting be properly briefed sufciently far ahead of each Board meeting and at overseas board meetings was held in Adastral Park, where other appropriate times, and to take account of their duties as directors.
BTs research, technology and IP operations are based.
An overseas Board meeting is planned for 2013 Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
