48 Corporate governance Statement on corporate governance Introduction by the Chairman The Board is committed to upholding the highest standards on the Board took action to recruit successors with the appropriate corporate governance, protecting and growing our shareholders levels of experience and skill to lead the Group through the next assets, and engaging in a fair and transparent manner with all stage of its development.
Mark Papworth was appointed Chief of our stakeholders.
We take responsibility for approving the Executive on 5 November 2012, and Steve Bowers started as Groups long term goals and strategies, and provide overall Finance Director on 7 January 2013.
The strengthened executive financial and organisational control.
We also ensure that the management team is key to the Boards plans for recovery and Groups businesses have appropriate and effective internal the restoration of value to shareholders.
control and risk management systems.
Nigel Young, who was Interim Chief Financial officer between The detailed statement below sets out how the Company has August 2012 and January 2013, will join the Board as a applied the main and supporting principles of good governance non-executive director at the end of April 2013.
He will become set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued in Chairman of the Audit Committee, succeeding Lord Freeman who June 2010 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
plans to retire from the Board at the end of the year.
I would like to draw your attention to some specic examples Sir Peter Norriss joined the Board as a non-executive director in of how the principles relating to the role and effectiveness of 2004, and after nine years service, will retire at the forthcoming the Board have been applied in practice this year: Annual General Meeting.
The recruitment of an additional Setting of strategic aims independent non-executive director will be completed over the The Board regularly reviews the long term strategic plan for next few months.
the Group, the current and future resource requirements for Dialogue with shareholders delivery of the plan, and risks to achievement of that plan.
The Board recognises that shareholder expectations were not This year, we have had to adjust our plan to reect significant well-managed throughout the year.
In the latter months of the budgetary constraints in our traditional markets, and year, we were constrained by the restrictions of The Takeover operating shortcomings in certain of the Groups companies.
Code from engaging in a full dialogue with shareholders.
Once This necessitated a fundamental review of our strategy for these restrictions fell away at the start of November 2012, delivering value to shareholders over the next few years, and the we participated in a series of meetings with shareholders management structure required to do so.
and analysts, as a first step towards restoring good lines of Composition of the Board communication with all of our stakeholders.
We will continue During late 2011, two new directors, Sarah Ellard and to focus on communication in 2013, particularly as we Vanda Murray, were appointed to the Board.
Both individuals introduce the new executive management team and develop have made positive contributions to the Board during a difficult our future strategic recovery plans.
David Evans retired from the Board at the Annual General The Company has been in full compliance with the provisions Meeting in March 2012. of the Code throughout the year ended 31 October 2012.
Following the resignation of Paul Rayner, the Finance Director, in P C F Hickson July 2012, and David Price, the Chief Executive, in October 2012, Chairman with shareholders.
All directors take decisions objectively in the The Board interests of the Company.
Composition and operation of the Board The Board currently comprises three executive directors and The Board delegates certain responsibilities to the Executive five non-executive directors including the Chairman.
The Board Committee, including: implementation of the Groups strategies considers that the Chairman and all of the other non-executive and policies as determined by the Board: monitoring of operational directors are independent in character and judgment, and meet and financial results against budget: allocation of resources across the criteria for independence set out in the Code.
The directors the Group within the overall plan approved by the Board: capital biographical details are set out on pages 28 and 29. expenditure within limits imposed by the Board: and developing and implementing risk management systems.
Further details of In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, all the Executive Committee are set out in the section of this report directors are required to submit themselves for re-election every covering Board Committees.
However, in order to ensure compliance with the Code, all directors will voluntarily submit themselves for re-election at the Procedures are in place covering the content, presentation and forthcoming Annual General, with the exception of Sir Peter Norriss timely delivery of papers to the Board for each Board meeting, to who has indicated his intention to retire from the Board after nine ensure that directors have sufficient information to make expedient years service.
and considered decisions in fullment of their duciary duties.
Where directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the The Board meets at least ten times a year, and has a formal running of the Company or a proposed action, such concerns are schedule of matters specically reserved to it for consideration and recorded in the Board minutes.
approval, including: the Groups five year plan: the annual operating budgets: acquisitions, disposals and major capital expenditure: Each director has full access to the advice and services of the nancing and treasury: pensions: ethical policies: health and Company Secretary who, under the direction of the Chairman, safety strategy: the Groups systems of financial control and risk is responsible for maintaining good information ows within management: appointments to the Board and policies relating to the Board and its committees: assisting with induction: keeping directors remuneration: and maintaining an effective dialogue the directors informed about changes to their duties and responsibilities: and advising the Board on all governance matters.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 49 The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a commitments, which are detailed on page 28, were fully disclosed matter for the Board as a whole.
to the Board prior to his appointment, and the Board is comfortable that he has sufficient time available to commit to his role.
All directors are entitled to take independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense, should the Non-executive directors need arise.
The non-executive directors perform an essential role in safeguarding shareholders interests.
They actively participate An internal induction programme on the Groups operations and in the development of strategic objectives, and monitor the its strategic and business plans is provided for newly-appointed performance of executive management in achieving these directors.
The Company Secretary also provides detailed objectives, in a constructively challenging manner where information on directors legal duties and responsibilities on appropriate.
The non-executive directors also review financial appointment, and updates the Board on a regular basis with performance, and consider the integrity of the financial information regards to regulatory changes affecting the directors and the produced by the Group and whether the financial controls and Groups operations generally.
Directors are continually updated risk management systems are robust and defensible.
They meet on the Groups businesses and the matters affecting the market in periodically with the management of the Groups operating which they operate.
The Company meets the cost of appropriate companies.
In addition to participating in Board meetings, the four external training for directors, the requirement for which is kept independent non-executive directors are the members of under review by the Chairman.
the standing committees set up to deal with audit and the The Company maintains directors and ofcers liability insurance in remuneration of executive directors and senior management.
respect of legal action against its directors.
The Board considers that the current balance of executive and non-executive inuence which exists is appropriate for the Meetings attendance Company, taking into account its size and status.
The following table shows the attendance of directors, who served during the year, at meetings of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Mr Much served as the Senior Independent Director throughout Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee: the year.
During the year, the Chairman met regularly with the non-executive Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee directors without the executives being present.
19 meetings 2 meetings 1 meeting 6 meetings The non-executive directors have letters of appointment covering, Mr P Hickson 19 19 - 1 1 6 6 amongst other items, their terms of appointment and expected Mrs S Ellard 19 19 - - - time commitment.
These letters of appointment usually provide Mr D Evans for a three year appointment, unless terminated earlier by and at resigned the discretion of either party upon three months written notice.
21 Mar 2012 6 6 - - - Further details are set out in the directors remuneration report on page 42, and copies of the letters of appointment are available for The Rt Hon inspection on request to the Company Secretary.
Lord Freeman 17 19 2 2 - 5 5 The papers accompanying the Notice of Annual General Meeting Mr I Much 19 19 2 2 1 1 6 6 include a statement from the Chairman conrming that the Mrs V Murray 19 19 2 2 - 5 5 performance of each non-executive director seeking re-election at Air Marshal the meeting continues to be effective and that each such director Sir Peter Norriss 18 19 2 2 1 1 5 5 continues to demonstrate commitment to their role.
Dr D Price Board performance evaluation resigned The performance of the Board and its effectiveness are subject 23 Oct 2012 16 17 - - - to periodic review by the Chairman.
The Chairman and the Mr P Rayner non-executive directors consider the individual performance of the resigned executive directors as part of the annual remuneration review, and 31 July 2012 12 12 - - - the Chairman and the Chief Executive review the performance of the non-executive directors.
The maximum number of meetings which each director could have There were a number of changes to the Board during 2012, which attended is shown in brackets.
required the Chairman, with the assistance of the non-executive The Chairman directors, to undertake a full evaluation of the recent performance The Company separates the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive of the Board and an assessment of the additional skills and in accordance with the recommendations of the Code.
The division knowledge that would improve its future effectiveness.
of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, Given the various changes, the Board intends to defer the and their respective job descriptions, are set out in writing and appointment of an external adviser to assist with the evaluation of agreed by the Board.
In addition to chairing the Board, the Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board is kept properly informed and is Board committees consulted on all decisions reserved to it: promoting constructive The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the Nomination relations between the executive and non-executive directors: Committee and the Remuneration Committee are posted on the ensuring that the training and development needs of directors Companys website and are available on request from the are identied and the performance of the Board evaluated on a Company Secretary.
regular basis: ensuring effective communication with shareholders and acting as a conduit to ensure that the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board.
The Chairmans other business Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 50 Corporate governance Statement on corporate governance continued monitoring the Groups key financial ratios and credit ratings: Audit Committee overseeing the application of the Groups whistleblowing policy The Rt Hon Lord Freeman Chairman and procedures for employees: Mr I Much reviewing the work undertaken by the Groups internal audit Mrs V Murray function, assessing the adequacy of the internal audit resource Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss and recommending changes for increasing the scope of the internal audit activities: and The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, who is a Chartered Accountant, is Chairman of the Audit Committee: his full biographical details are implementing the Groups policy on the provision of non-audit set out on page 29.
The Committee met twice during the year, and services by the auditors, taking into account relevant guidance operates within formal written terms of reference.
As referred and best practice.
to above, the terms of reference are available on the Companys The Groups internal audit programme incorporates an annual website.
Meetings of the Committee are attended, at the invitation rolling review of all businesses, and focuses on both financial and of the Chairman of the Committee, by the external auditors, the non-financial controls and procedures.
Newly acquired businesses Chairman of the Board, the Finance Director and representatives are subject to a detailed review by the internal audit function from the Group finance and internal audit function.
The Committee approves the meets with the auditors on a regular basis without the executive annual internal audit plan and receives regular reports from directors being present.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary the internal auditors.
to the Committee and minutes of meetings are circulated to all To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Board members.
Committee reviewed: The Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties, independence and objectivity: and to obtain any outside legal or other professional advice it requires at the Companys expense.
the external auditors fullment of the agreed audit plan and any variations from the plan: The Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
It is the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and the Group and the external auditors is maintained, including the content of the external auditors reporting and reviewing non-audit services and fees.
The Committee keeps internal control.
under review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and financial risk management systems, and on an annual basis, Deloitte LLP have been the Companys auditors for many years.
considers the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function.
In the opinion of the Committee, the relationship with the auditors The Committee reviews annually its terms of reference and its currently works well, and having reviewed their independence effectiveness, and recommends to the Board any changes required and effectiveness, the Committee has not considered it necessary as the result of such review.
to date to require Deloitte LLP to re-tender for the audit work.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the Board that During the year, the Committee, operating under its terms of Deloitte LLP be proposed for re-appointment as auditors at the reference, discharged its responsibilities by: forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
reviewing the Groups draft 2011 financial statements and 2012 The Committee has considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of interim results statement prior to Board approval, and reviewing the current auditors from the market and noted that there are no the external auditors detailed reports thereon: contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditors.
reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies, The Committee keeps under review the level of any non-audit and reviewing various accounting matters raised by management services which are provided by the external auditors, to ensure and the external auditors in the context of financial disclosures: that this does not impair their independence and objectivity.
The considering and approving changes to the Groups accounting Committee has adopted a policy which states that the external policy manual: auditors should not be appointed to provide services in relation to corporate finance matters, unless the Committee agrees that reviewing the potential impact on the Groups financial their appointment would be in the best interests of the Companys statements of certain matters such as impairments of xed asset shareholders in particular circumstances and would not create any values and the adoption of new accounting standards: direct conict with their role as external auditors.
The Committee, reviewing the external auditors plan for the 2012 interim review in conjunction with the Finance Director, ensures that the Group and the 2012 year end audit, including reviewing the key risks maintains a sufficient choice of appropriately qualied audit rms.
on the accounts, conrming the auditors independence and the Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year proposed audit fee, and approving the terms of engagement for for audit and other services are set out in the notes to the financial the audit: statements on page 69. receiving reports from the Risk Committee and reviewing the Groups risk register: reviewing the Groups anti-bribery policies and procedures, and the compliance of each of the Groups businesses with these policies: monitoring the Groups nancing structures: Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 51 Nomination Committee Relations with shareholders The Company maintains an active dialogue with institutional Mr P Hickson Chairman shareholders through regular brieng meetings and formal Mr I Much presentations following the release of interim and annual results.
Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss Meetings are usually attended by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, although the Chairman attended a number of Mr Hickson is Chairman of the Nomination Committee but, in meetings with shareholders during 2012.
The Senior Independent accordance with the Committees terms of reference, is not Director also attended one meeting with a significant shareholder permitted to chair meetings when the Committee is dealing in 2012.
The other non-executive directors are also offered the with the appointment of his successor.
As referred to above, the opportunity to meet with major shareholders and attend meetings Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys if so requested by major shareholders.
Communication with private investors is achieved largely through With regards to the recruitment and appointment of new executive the medium of the interim report and the financial statements.
directors during 2012, the Board considered the specic knowledge and expertise which was required to lead the Group through the The Companys website www.
co. uk provides financial next stage of its development, and provided a brief to external and business information on the Group.
search agents based upon its conclusions.
The search agents The directors are provided with reports and other written briengs put forward a short list of candidates for the Chairman and the from the Companys principal shareholders and analysts, and are non-executive directors to interview, prior to making formal regularly informed by the Company Secretary about changes to offers of appointment.
The Board supports the principles set out in Lord Davies Review It is the Companys policy that all directors should attend and into Women on Boards published in February 2011, as reected by make themselves available to take questions from shareholders the fact that the Board now has two female members.
The Board or address any concerns at the Annual General Meeting.
At other also recognises the importance of promoting diversity across times of the year, the directors can be contacted via the Companys the Group, and remains committed to a minimum of at least 25% head ofce.
female representation on the Board.
All substantial issues, including the adoption of the annual report Remuneration Committee and financial statements, are proposed on separate resolutions at the Annual General Meeting.
In line with best practice guidelines, Mr I Much Chairman voting at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting will be The Rt Hon Lord Freeman conducted by way of a poll.
This allows all votes to be counted, not Mr P Hickson just those of shareholders who attend the meeting.
Poll results Mrs V Murray will be published on the Companys website as soon as practicable following the conclusion of the meeting.
The Notice of the Annual Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least twenty working The Remuneration Committee met six times during the year.
Further details on the Committee and the Companys policy on directors remuneration and long term incentive schemes are Financial reporting included within the directors remuneration report.
The statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements and accounting records maintained by the Executive Committee Company is set out on page 32.
The current members of the Executive Committee are: Internal control and risk management Mr M Papworth Group Chief Executive The Board has continued to review the effectiveness of the Groups Mr R Armitage Group Business Development Director systems of internal control, including financial, operational and Mr S Bowers Group Finance Director compliance controls, and risk management systems.
Mr T Bridgewater Group Director of Safety The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and attaches considerable importance to Mr R Dellar Managing Director Chemring International these systems, which are designed to meet the Groups particular Mr J Devine Group HR Director needs and identify those risks to which it is exposed.
However, Mrs S Ellard Group Legal Director the systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement, loss or mismanagement of the Mr S Grinham Managing Director European Electronics Groups assets.
Mr M Helme Managing Director Chemring Europe In carrying out its review of the effectiveness of the Groups Mr D McKenrick President Chemring North America systems of internal control in compliance with provision C2.1 of Mr R Pittman Group Director of Communications the Code, the Board has taken into consideration the following & Investor Relations key features of the Groups risk management systems and control Mr Papworth chairs the Executive Committee, which meets procedures which operated during the year: monthly.
The Executive Committee is responsible for the executive The Board assesses the key risks associated with achievement of day-to-day running of the Group, submission to the Board of the Groups business objectives as part of the annual strategic strategic plans and budgets for the Groups operations, and planning process.
Out of this process, each business establishes monitoring the day-to-day performance of the Group as a whole.
a five year plan and annual budget, which are subject to approval by the Board.
The performance of each business against budget Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 52 Corporate governance Statement on corporate governance continued and prior years is reviewed on a monthly basis at both Procedures to deal with directors operational level and by the Board.
Achievement of strategic conicts of interest business objectives and the associated risks are monitored by All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the the Board on an ongoing basis.
2006 Act to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have All businesses hold monthly operating meetings, which are a direct or indirect interest that conicts or possibly may conict attended by the respective Divisional Managing Directors.
In with the interests of the Company.
The Companys Articles of addition, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director attend Association include provisions for dealing with directors conicts operational and strategic review meetings with each of the of interest in accordance with the 2006 Act.
The Company has businesses on a quarterly basis.
In the case of the US businesses, procedures in place to deal with situations where directors may formal Board meetings are held quarterly, and these are have any such conicts, which require the Board to: attended by main Board directors and external non-executive consider each conict situation separately on its particular facts: directors appointed in the US.
The US non-executive directors are available to provide guidance and monitor governance in consider the conict situation in conjunction with the rest of their the US businesses throughout the year.
External non-executive duties under the 2006 Act: directors are also appointed to the Boards of the Groups Italian, keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations granted by Norwegian and Australian subsidiaries.
directors and the scope of any approvals given: and Each business is required to comply with the Group Accounting regularly review conict authorisation.
Policy Manual, which sets out formal procedures for incurring certain types of expenditure and making contractual Going concern commitments.
Compliance with the accounting policy manual The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on going is audited by the internal auditors, who report regularly to the concern.
They have made appropriate enquiries and taken into Audit Committee on their findings.
account factors, which are further detailed in the business review, such as: The Board retains primary responsibility for acquisitions and disposals, and nancing arrangements for the Group.
Treasury the order book of 760.9 million as at the year end, despite more management, IT strategy, insurance and significant legal matters challenging market conditions and government spending cuts in are dealt with centrally from the Group head ofce, and the Board the US and Europe: receives regular reports on each of these items.
Reviews of the the Groups underlying continuing operating cash ow of Groups pensions, insurance and risk management arrangements 114.9 million during the year: are carried out by external advisors on a regular basis.
the balance sheet net assets at the year end of 433.5 million: and The Group Director of Safety, supported by divisional Health and Safety Management Committees, co-ordinates and controls the the Groups available banking facilities, which amount to activities of each business in relation to health and safety and 230 million, with maturities through to April 2015 see note 24 environmental matters, which are a key focus for the Board in of the financial statements.
view of the nature of the Groups operations.
The Chief Executive The Groups banking and loan note covenants were all met is the Board member nominated with specic responsibility for during the year, and the expectation is that this will continue.
The Chief Executive meets formally with health As a consequence, the directors believe that the Company is and safety professionals from each business on an annual basis.
well-placed to manage its risks.
Further details on the covenants The Group has implemented a Bribery Act Compliance Manual are set out in the business review on page 19 and note 21 of the incorporating its anti-bribery policies and procedures.
Details of how the Group manages its liquidity risk can be found in note 24 of the financial statements.
The Groups Risk Management Committee meets on a quarterly basis.
All members of the Executive Committee also serve on the The long term nature of the Groups business, taken together with Risk Management Committee.
The Committee reviews the key risks the Groups forward order book, provide a satisfactory level of associated with the achievement of the annual budget and the confidence to the Board in respect of trading in the year ahead.
five year plan for each business, and the risk control procedures The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has implemented.
It also considers the top five health and safety risks adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the which have been identied at each site and agrees the action foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern plan to address these.
The Risk Management Committee reports basis in preparing the financial statements.
biannually to the Audit Committee and the Board on the top ten Approved by the Board of Directors on 24 January 2013. risks from a Group perspective, and monitors the actions being Signed on behalf of the Board taken to mitigate these.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the S L Ellard Groups systems of internal control and risk management which Group Legal Director & Company Secretary were in place during the financial year ended 31 October 2012, and it confirms that systems of internal control and risk management compliant with the Code and the Turnbull Guidance were in place throughout the year and have remained in place up to the date of approval of these financial statements.
Notwithstanding this, the Board will continue to take steps to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the Group and to deal with any areas of improvement which come to the attention of management and the Board.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012
