GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 01 04 07 Chris Gibson-Smith Lucinda Bell Dido Harding Non-Executive Chairman Finance Director Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board: Joined the Board as a Appointment to the Board: Lucinda joined the Executive Appointment to the Board: Dido was appointed a Non-Executive Director in January 2003 and was appointed Committee in 2010, joined the Board in March 2011 and Non-Executive Director of the Company in January 2010.
Non-Executive Chairman in January 2007. became Finance Director in May 2011.
Committee membership: Remuneration Committee Committee membership: Chairman of the Nomination Committee membership: Executive Committee and External appointments: She is Chief Executive Officer Committee Investment Committee of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC and also sits on the Board External appointments: Chairman of the London Stock Previous experience: Lucinda qualified as a Chartered of Cheltenham Racecourse.
Exchange and a Governor of London Business School.
Accountant before joining British Land in 1991, where she Previous experience: Prior to joining TalkTalk in early 2010, Previous experience: Chris was a Non-Executive Director has held a wide range of roles in the Group finance function, Dido was Sainsburys Convenience Director and a member of Qatar Financial Centre Authority and Chairman of including Tax Director.
Lucinda was also a Governor of the of J Sainsbury plcs Operating Board.
Dido previously held National Air Traffic Services Limited.
He was a Non-Executive University of Westminster where she chaired the Finance senior management positions within Tesco plc, Kingfisher Plc Director of Lloyds TSB Group plc and a Group Managing and Property Committee.
and Thomas Cook Ltd. Director of BP PLC.
05 08 02 Simon Borrows William Jackson Chris Grigg Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Appointment to the Board: Simon was appointed a Appointment to the Board: William was appointed Appointment to the Board: Joined British Land as Chief Non-Executive Director of the Company on 17 March 2011. a Non-Executive Director of the Company on 11 April 2011.
Committee membership: Audit Committee Committee membership: Audit Committee Committee membership: Chairman of the Executive External appointments: Simon joined 3i Group plc External appointments: He is the Managing Partner of Committee and Investment Committee in October 2011 as Chief Investment Officer and became Bridgepoint, a leading private equity firm.
William has served External appointments: Chris is a member of the Executive Chief Executive in May 2012.
He is also a Non-Executive on a number of Bridgepoint portfolio Boards.
He is currently Board of EPRA, the European Public Real Estate Association.
the Chairman of Pret A Manger, the ready to eat food In July 2011 he was appointed Vice President of the British Previous experience: Before his appointment to 3i Simon and beverage retailer and Dorna Sports SL, holder of the Property Federation and he becomes President in July 2012. worked for 28 years in the banking and finance industry, commercial rights of the Moto GP World Championship.
Previous experience: Chris was Chief Executive of Barclays most recently as Chairman of Greenhill & Co. International Previous experience: William began his career at NatWests Commercial Bank until November 2008, having joined the LLP, having served as Co-Chief Executive Officer of the firm investment banking arm, before working extensively on bank in 2005 as Group Treasurer.
Prior to Barclays, he held a 200710 and Co-President 200407.
Prior to Greenhill, private equity transactions in Europe.
He was appointed broad range of leadership positions at Goldman Sachs, where Simon held the position of Chief Executive Officer of Baring Managing Partner of Bridgepoint, formerly NatWest Equity his career spanned 20 years.
He rose to partner of Goldman Brothers International Limited, the corporate finance Partners, in 2001.
Sachs, working principally in its capital markets and division of ING Barings.
09 06 Charles Maudsley 03 Aubrey Adams Head of Retail John Gildersleeve Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board: Charles joined the Board in Senior Independent Director Appointment to the Board: Aubrey was appointed a NonFebruary 2010.
He has responsibility for the Retail sector Appointment to the Board: John became a Non-Executive Executive Director in September 2008. of the Companys portfolio.
He was appointed Senior Committee membership: Audit Committee Committee membership: Executive Committee and Independent Director in November 2010.
External appointments: He is Head of Property within Investment Committee Committee membership: Remuneration Committee and RBSs Global Restructuring Group, Non-Executive Chairman Previous experience: Charles joined British Land from LaSalle Nomination Committee of Max Property Group PLC and a Non-Executive Director Investment Management where he was Co-Head of Europe, External appointments: He is Deputy Chairman of Carphone of Unitech Corporate Parks PLC, a business focused on Managing Director of the UK business, a member of the Warehouse Group PLC and a Non-Executive Director of Indian Real Estate Investment.
He is also Chairman of the Management Board and an International Director.
Prior TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC.
Board of Trustees of Wigmore Hall.
to joining LaSalle he was with AXA Real Estate Investment Previous experience: Until February 2004, he was the Previous experience: He was, until May 2008, Chief Executive Managers for seven years where he was Head of Real Estate Commercial & Trading Director of Tesco plc.
He joined Tesco of Savills PLC and was formerly Senior Independent Director Fund Management in the UK.
in 1965 and became an Executive Director in 1984.
He was of Associated British Ports PLC.
also formerly Chairman of New Look Retail Group Ltd, EMI Group, Gallaher Group and a Non-Executive Director of Lloyds TSB Bank Plc and Vodafone Group.
Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 70 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Executive Committee biographies 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 10 13 15 Richard Pym Lord Turnbull Ben Grose Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Head of Retail Asset Management Appointment to the Board: Richard was appointed Appointment to the Board: Andrew was appointed Ben Grose joined British Land in July 2005 and a Non-Executive Director of the Company in January 2010. a Non-Executive Director of the Company in April 2006. is Head of Retail Asset Management for the Committee membership: Nomination Committee and Committee membership: Nomination Committee and Groups retail business in the UK.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Previous experience: Before his appointment to External appointments: He is Chairman of UK Asset External appointments: He is a Non-Executive Director of Head of Retail Asset Management he was an asset Resolution Ltd, the holding company established to manage Prudential PLC and Frontier Economics Ltd.
He is Chairman manager responsible for retail warehousing, in the run off of the Government owned closed mortgage of BH Global Limited.
He entered the House of Lords in 2005 particular the Hercules Unit Trust portfolio.
Prior books of Bradford and Bingley PLC and Northern Rock as a Crossbench Life Peer.
to this, he was Shopping Centre Asset Manager for Asset Management PLC.
He is also Non-Executive Previous experience: He retired in July 2005 as Secretary PillarCaisse Management Limited, a joint venture Chairman of BrightHouse Group Ltd and Nordax Finans AB.
of the Cabinet and Head of the Home Civil Service, 200205. between Pillar Property and La Caisse fide Depot Previous experience: He was Group Chief Executive of Alliance He was Permanent Secretary of HM Treasury, 199804: and et Placement du Quebec.
He has over 18 years & Leicester plc until 2007.
He was also formerly a Vice before that Permanent Secretary at the Department of the of retail asset management experience having President of the British Bankers Association, Non-Executive Environment, 199498. also previously worked for Trafalgar House Chairman of Halfords Group plc and Non-Executive Director Property Limited.
of Selfridges PLC and Old Mutual PLC.
14 16 Anthony Braine 11 Secretary Jean-Marc Vandevivere Tim Roberts Tony joined British Land in 1987 as Assistant Secretary Head of Strategy & Residential Head of Offices and became Group Secretary in 1995.
Jean-Marc joined British Land in June 2009 as Head Appointment to the Board: Tim was appointed to the Executive of Strategy and took responsibility for Residential in Committee in August 2005 and elected as an Executive September 2011.
He has responsibility for the Office Previous experience: Before joining British Land sector of the Companys portfolio.
he was Principal Investor at Horsley Bridge Partners, Committee membership: Executive Committee and a Private Equity Fund of Fund investing in Venture Investment Committee Capital and Private Equity.
Prior to this, Jean-Marc External appointments: Tim is a Trustee and Board Member spent seven years at The Boston Consulting Group of LandAid, the Property Industry Charity.
working in Paris, Washington DC and London Previous experience: Before joining British Land in 1997 with a specialisation in the retail and consumer he was a partner at Drivers Jonas, in the Investment goods industries.
12 17 Stephen Smith Nigel Webb Chief Investment Officer Head of Developments Nigel joined British Land in 1992 and was appointed Appointment to the Board: Stephen joined the Board of the Head of Developments in July 2003.
He has Company in January 2010. responsibility for the Groups development activities Committee membership: Executive Committee and Chairman including leading development acquisitions, planning, of the Investment Committee Sir John Ritblat construction and leasing.
Previous experience: He was formerly Global Head of Asset Honorary President Previous experience: Nigel has over 25 years Management and Transactions at AXA Real Estate Investment Sir John became Managing Director of British Land in 1970 and experience in commercial property development.
Prior to joining AXA in 1999 he was Managing Chairman in 1971.
He retired from the Board in December 2006 and Prior to British Land Nigel worked for developer Director at Sun Life Properties for five years.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 71
