GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compliance with the UK corporate governance code Board The principal external governance framework within which the Company operates comprises UK and European legislation, Board level committees the regulation provided in the FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules and FSA Listing Rules, and the guidance provided in Audit Remuneration Nomination The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Committee Committee Committee Independent Independent Chairman and This corporate governance report aims to provide shareholders Non-Executive Non-Executive Independent with an understanding of how the Company has applied the Directors Directors Non-Executive principles and the provisions of the Code.
The Board considers Directors that the Company has, throughout the year ended 31 March 2012, complied with the relevant provisions set out in the Code.
Executive level committees The Company has applied the main principles of the Code as follows: Executive Committee Investment Corporate Executive Directors Committee Responsibility Leadership and Senior Executive Directors Committee The Company is headed by an effective Board which is collectively Executives Senior Executives responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for Board approval, Attendance at Board or Committee meetings during which includes the approval of the annual accounts and the approval the year to 31 March 2012 of material acquisitions, disposals and financing arrangements.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended The Board delegates authority to the Executive Directors of the out of the number eligible to attend.
Company in respect of certain transactions within defined, limited parameters.
The Board has a regular schedule of meetings together Board Directors with further meetings as required by the ongoing business of the Company and receives reports on every material aspect of the Audit Remuneration Nomination business of the Company and its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Board Committee Committee Committee Appropriate insurance cover has been arranged in respect of legal Chris Gibson-Smith 7 7 1 1 action against the Companys Directors.
Chris Grigg 7 7 There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Aubrey Adams 7 7 5 5 Company between the running of the Board and the executive Lucinda Bell 7 7 responsibility for the running of the Companys business.
Simon Borrows 5 7 4 4 No one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
There John Gildersleeve 7 7 3 3 1 1 is a written division of responsibilities between the Chairman Dido Harding 7 7 3 3 and Chief Executive, which has been approved by the Board.
William Jackson 7 7 5 5 Charles Maudsley 7 7 The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and Richard Pym 7 7 5 5 1 1 ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
He sets the 1 Graham Roberts 1 2 Boards agenda and ensures that adequate time is available Tim Roberts 7 7 for discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues.
He promotes a culture of openness and debate and ensures Stephen Smith 7 7 constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Lord Turnbull 6 7 1 1 3 3 1 1 Directors.
He also ensures that the Directors receive accurate, Number of meetings 75 31 timely and clear information and ensures effective communication during the year with shareholders.
1 Graham Roberts retired on 30 June 2011.
The Chairman and individual Directors meet outside formal Board meetings as part of each Directors continuing contribution to delivery of the Companys strategy to achieve superior returns for shareholders.
This process also allows for open two-way discussion about the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors, both Executive and Non-Executive.
By this means the Chairman is continually aware of the views of individual Directors and can act as necessary to deal with any issues relating to Board effectiveness before they can become a risk to the Company.
Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 72 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and help develop The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous annual evaluation proposals on strategy: this occurs at meetings of the Board, and of its performance.
The British Land Board performance particularly at annual meetings to discuss the ongoing strategy of the evaluation alternates internally facilitated appraisals with Group, the most recent of which took place over two days in February externally facilitated appraisals at least every three years.
This meeting is attended by the whole Board together with senior executives contributing to specific discussions.
Papers are An independent external review of the effectiveness of the considered on each part of the Groups existing and prospective British Land Board was conducted this year by Dr Tracy Long portfolio, financing and of the Group as a whole in order to formulate of Boardroom Review.
Boardroom Review had no other connection and confirm the overall corporate strategy going forward.
The review was designed to encourage Directors to question the Boards approach, assess its impact The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the performance of and contribution and prepare for the challenges ahead.
The review management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor investigated the Boards approach to strategy, risk and control, the reporting of performance: they satisfy themselves on the performance management and communication, its culture and integrity of financial information and that financial controls and dynamics, and the way in which it optimised its use of time, and systems of risk management are robust and defensible: they included confidential interviews with all thirteen Directors and the determine appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive Directors Company Secretary, an observation of the strategic awayday and and have a prime role in appointing Directors and in succession a review of selected papers.
In addition to the Chairman, there are seven independent Non-Executive Directors with a strong range of complementary The results of the review, which were compared with Boardroom skills.
Further details can be found on pages 70 and 71.
Reviews 2009 evaluation, and which concluded that the Board had an open and constructive culture, strong composition Effectiveness and sound leadership, were presented as a written report and The Board and its Committees have the appropriate balance presentation, during which Directors discussed key themes of skills, experience, independence, commitment and knowledge and areas for further development.
of the Company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Boards goal is for continual improvement in the results year-on-year.
The annual appraisal process also includes the Throughout the year at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, Senior Independent Director meeting to discuss the performance has comprised Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board of the Chairman with other Directors annually, or more frequently to be independent.
The current composition of the Board, including as necessary.
In addition, the Chairman meets with each a brief explanation of the experience of each Director, is shown on Non-Executive Director annually to discuss their contribution pages 70 and 71. and the Chairman provides the Remuneration Committee with a written appraisal of the Chief Executives performance There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the for the year.
Similarly, the Chief Executive provides the appointment of new Directors to the Board which is led by the Remuneration Committee with a written assessment of the Nomination Committee.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for Executive Directors performance.
specified terms and all Directors are subject to annual re-election.
The work of the Nomination Committee is described on page 81.
Accountability The Board presents a balanced and understandable assessment All Directors ensure that they allocate sufficient time to the of the Companys position and prospects.
The Business Model Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Letters of on page 23 explains the basis on which the Company generates appointment of Non-Executive Directors set out the expected time or preserves value over the longer term, and the strategy of the commitment and each Non-Executive Director has undertaken Group is outlined on page 22. that they have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
Other Board appointments of Directors are disclosed on pages 70 The Board also determines the nature and extent of the significant and 71.
All Directors receive an induction on joining the Board.
risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives, and maintains sound risk management and internal control systems.
The Board is supplied, in a timely manner, with information in a There are formal and transparent arrangements for considering form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
how corporate reporting, risk management and internal control The Company Secretary ensures good information flows within the principles are applied and for maintaining an appropriate Board and its Committees and between senior management and relationship with the Companys auditor.
The key risks that the Non-Executive Directors and is responsible for advising the Board Group faces and features of the internal control system that through the Chairman on all governance matters.
operated throughout the period covered by the accounts are referred to in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 77 to 80, and the approach to risk management and the principal risks themselves are shown on pages 38 to 43.
Risk management and internal control is also discussed on page 75.
All Directors were re-elected during the year and seek re-election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 73 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Remuneration The Bribery Act Levels and components of remuneration of Directors are designed New UK legislation impacting the Company during the year included to attract, retain and motivate Directors without being excessive: the introduction of The Bribery Act, the provisions of which came a significant portion of Executive Directors remuneration is into force on 1 July 2011.
British Land conducts business in an structured so as to link rewards to corporate and individual honest way, without the use of corrupt practices or bribery to obtain performance.
There is a formal and transparent procedure for an unfair advantage, and has taken the necessary steps to ensure developing policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the that it has appropriate procedures in place to combat bribery and remuneration packages of individual Directors.
These steps include carrying out a risk assessment and Companys policy on Directors remuneration and the levels reviewing and updating our policies and internal procedures taking and components of Directors remuneration are set out in the account of the guidance issued by the Ministry of Justice.
In addition, Remuneration report on pages 82 to 96. training has been and continues to be provided on an ongoing basis to ensure and emphasise continuing awareness of the legal Relations with shareholders requirements and our expectations throughout the Group.
There is a continuing dialogue with shareholders, with whom the Company places considerable importance on maintaining open Governance structure and clear communication.
The Investor Relations department is The Board is responsible for the strategy, effective control and dedicated to facilitating communication with shareholders.
There management of the Group.
is an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings between the Executive Directors and its shareholders, where a wide range The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and of relevant issues including strategy, performance, the market, Nomination Committees which operate within defined terms management and governance are discussed within the constraints of reference, which are made available on the Companys website of the information already known to the market.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees take place in the UK, Europe and the US, as well as participating are entirely composed of independent Non-Executive Directors, in sector conferences.
Investor days take place to enable major and the Nomination Committee is composed of independent shareholders to view the Companys activities.
Non-Executive Directors together with the Chairman.
John Gildersleeve is the Senior Independent Director.
The following At each scheduled Board meeting the Directors receive a written pages contain a Report of the Audit Committee pages 77 to 80, report of any major issues which have been raised by shareholders a Remuneration report pages 82 to 96 and a Report of the with management.
During the course of a year, shareholders are kept informed The attendance of Directors at Board or Committee meetings of the progress of the Company through results statements and is shown in the table on page 72. other announcements that are released through the London Stock Exchange and other news services.
Company announcements and In addition there are three principal management committees presentations are made available simultaneously on the Companys established by the Chief Executive the Executive Committee, website, affording all shareholders full access to material composed of the Executive Directors and senior executives: information.
Shareholders can also raise questions directly with the Investment Committee, composed of the Executive Directors: the Company at any time through a facility on the website.
and the Corporate Responsibility Committee, composed of senior executives with its Chairman reporting directly to the Chief Additionally, there is an opportunity at the Annual General Meeting Executive.
The activities of these Committees are discussed in separate sections of the text below.
for individual shareholders to question the Board.
At the meeting, the Company complies with the Code as it relates to voting, including votes withheld, the separation of resolutions, the attendance of Non-Executive Directors committee chairmen and voting by poll.
The Annual Report and The Board considers that Aubrey Adams, Simon Borrows, Notice of Meeting are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days John Gildersleeve, Dido Harding, William Jackson, Richard Pym prior to the AGM.
All AGM resolutions are decided by poll and the and Lord Turnbull are independent Non-Executive Directors.
voting results are announced to the London Stock Exchange and In making this determination the Board has considered whether are available on the website and on request.
each Director is independent in character and judgement and whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could affect, the Directors judgement.
The Board believes that it is evident from consideration of the Non-Executive Directors biographies detailed on pages 70 and 71 that they are of the integrity and stature required to perform their roles of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 74 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Executive Committee In addition, there are twice yearly CR review meetings with all The Executive Committee comprises the Executive Directors managing agents and construction project teams to review their together with the senior executives shown on pages 70 and 71.
Committee, which is chaired by Chris Grigg, deals with the ongoing management of the Group and meets approximately twice monthly.
The Company prepares a CR Annual Report, frequent updates and quarterly CR emails, all of which are available on the The Committee considers a number of differing issues including Companys website.
the day-to-day operational matters for running the business not reserved for the Board, the performance of the Groups assets and Risk management and internal control the development programme, financings and refinancings, internal The Directors are responsible for the maintenance of sound procedures, cost control, risk management and matters for risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing recommendation to other Committees or the Board.
It receives and its effectiveness.
The Board complies with the risk management considers a number of regular reports a Monthly Reporting Pack, and internal control principles of The UK Corporate Governance and quarterly a Property Market Review and a report on Economic Code and follows the best practice recommendations on internal and Capital Markets.
The Committee discusses emerging trends, control contained in Internal Control: Guidance to Directors and ad-hoc reports are considered on various matters including the Turnbull guidance.
market sectors, cost inflation and drivers of the business.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and A separate meeting is set aside each quarter to consider and discuss managing the significant risks the Group faces which has been a Quarterly Business Review.
This Report provides a high level in place throughout the year, up to the date of approval of this quarterly performance review of the business focusing on the key Report.
The process is designed to manage rather than eliminate metrics for retail, office, residential and finance, and assists the the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only Committee in considering and debating the performance of each provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material area of the Group.
Investment Committee The system of internal control is subject to review by Internal Audit.
The Investment Committee comprises the Executive Directors.
We have decided to outsource this function to provide additional It is chaired by Stephen Smith and meets as required to review and objectivity and expertise.
These include any proposed sales or purchases, and proposed capital expenditure above a defined limit, The fundamental control principles applied by the Group include: including expenditure in joint ventures.
Approvals by the Committee a defined schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board: are subject to the approval of the Board in the case of major transactions, and subject to any other formal board approvals that a detailed authorisation process which ensures that no material may be required including approvals required by the joint venture commitments are entered into without competent and extensive arrangements in the case of joint venture expenditure.
approval by more than one approved person: formal documentation of all significant transactions: During the year the Investment Committee has met 16 times and considered 31 proposals.
Meetings of the Committee are also a system of business and financial planning including cash flow attended by the senior executives on the Executive Committee.
and profitability forecasting and scenario exercises performed on major business, corporate, property and financing proposals: Corporate Responsibility Committee a property investment appraisal process: The Corporate Responsibility CR Committee is chaired by Adrian Penfold, Head of Planning and Corporate Responsibility.
monitoring key outcomes, particularly expenditure, against Other members are senior executives who have responsibility for budget and forecast: delivering each of our CR focus areas: managing buildings efficiently: clearly defined policies and a review of actual performance supporting communities: developing sustainable buildings: and against these: engaging staff.
This Committee meets monthly and is responsible for developing the CR strategy and delivering its goals.
benchmarking of property performance with external sources such as the Investment Property Databank IPD : Adrian Penfold, as Chairman of the Committee, meets with Chris a comprehensive property and corporate insurance Grigg at least monthly to report progress against agreed goals.
The programme: and Company has established a CR Panel, chaired by Chris Grigg, with Lucinda Bell participating alongside external advisers.
This Panel a formal whistle-blowing policy.
met for the first time in February 2012 and agreed that its primary role was to challenge and provide insights for the CR strategy in a The Board annually reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system fast changing landscape.
We will appoint a wider range of advisors of internal control over financial reporting.
During the course of its to this Panel and report who they are in our next Annual Report.
review of the risk management and internal control systems over financial reporting, the Board has not identified nor been advised of Members of the CR Committee also meet monthly with the retail any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
and offices asset management teams to review ongoing activities.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 75 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The key risks that the Group faces and features of the internal Discrimination control system that operated throughout the period covered by British Land supports equal opportunities and gender diversity.
the accounts are referred to in the Report of the Audit Committee At 31 March 2012 Head Office staff comprised 91 females and on pages 77 to 80, and the approach to risk management and the 117 males: of the 111 staff considered executives, 30 were female principal risks themselves are shown on pages 38 to 43. and 81 male.
The Company is continuing to progress its steps to strengthen female representation at Board and top management Staff level.
There were no incidents of discrimination during the We maintain a policy of employing the best candidates available financial year, or the previous financial year.
in every position, regardless of gender, ethnic group or background.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always Funding to charity and good causes fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicants The Company has a charity funding policy which is on our concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, website and which states that we focus our giving on young people, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with education, training, employment and local regeneration.
Our prime us continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is our geographical focus is in the communities where we have a significant policy that the training, career development and promotion presence, but we also donate to national causes.
In addition, of disabled people should, as far as possible, be identical to that we also have a matched giving scheme for staff.
Funding decisions of other employees.
are made by our Charity Committee, which is chaired by Adrian Penfold, Head of Planning and Corporate Responsibility.
In FY2012 We encourage employees involvement and keep our employees we made donations of 835,948, compared with 665,666 in FY2011.
informed through regular briefings and internal communications.
We have well established all-employee share schemes.
In the UK, We have an explicit policy that we will not make any donations separate pension fund reports are made available to members.
Reportable accidents across our portfolio Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely FY2012 FY2011 to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Directors report and Business review.
The financial 1 British Land occupied demises 2 nil position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing At our managed properties 54 40 facilities, together with the Groups financing policy, are described in the Financial review on pages 58 to 64.
Rate per 100,000 hours worked 0.35 0.46 2 on our developments The Group has considerable undrawn debt facilities and cash deposits in excess of current drawn banking facilities.
There is 1 British Land occupied demises refers to space occupied by British Land, Broadgate Estates and The Source.
substantial headroom against the covenants for its unsecured 2 On our developments, there were ten reportable accidents across 2,831,102 working banking facilities, details of which are included on page 67.
It also hours in FY2012, compared to one reportable accident across 219,564 working hours benefits from a diverse and secure income stream from leases in FY2011.
As a consequence, the Directors There were two reported fatalities in our retail portfolio.
These were believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks members of the public and related to a heart attack incident at satisfactorily despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
Meadowhall and a suicide event at Eastgate Shopping Centre.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company Neither of these fatalities were strictly reportable to the Health and and the Group have adequate resources to continue in Safety Executive, as they were not the result of management error, operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they but we have reported them for the purpose of completeness.
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Staff turnover Employees leaving Summary number and % of total staff In summary, the Directors and senior executives continue to FY2012 FY2011 manage the Group within a framework that both ensures and encourages corporate governance in line with good practice.
Head Office 24 14 12% 8% Broadgate Estates 16 23 8% 13% Chris Gibson-Smith Total 40 37 Chairman 10% 10% Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 76
