OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Richard Pym Chairman of the Audit Committee In carrying out its responsibilities over the past year, the Audit Committee has held five formal meetings and individual committee members had regular meetings with the finance team and the internal and external auditor.
There has been a focus on the valuation process for our investments and developments, risk management processes, emerging laws and regulations, and the effectiveness of internal and external audit.
Next year we expect these areas to continue to receive significant attention and in particular the committee will have particular focus on the further development of risk management processes within the business.
Richard Pym Chairman of the Audit Committee Audit Committee members Audit Committee attendees Members Position Attendees Position Richard Pym Chairman of the Audit Committee Deloitte Attends as Independent Auditor to the Group Aubrey Adams Member Knight Frank Attend twice a year to present William Jackson Member and their valuations as the Groups Simon Borrows Member CBRE External Valuers Tony Braine Company Secretary Attends as Secretary to the Committee Lucinda Bell Finance Director Attends by invitation Stephen Smith Chief Investment Officer Attends by invitation Chris Gibson-Smith Chairman of the Company Attends by invitation Chris Grigg Chief Executive Attends by invitation Rob Hudson Group Financial Controller Attends by invitation Marc Furlonger Head of Financial Forecasting Attends by invitation and Reporting Matthew Stubberfield Head of Internal Audit Attends by invitation The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 77 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE continued Composition of the Committee Activities of the Committee The Audit Committee meets regularly during the year aligned We have undertaken each of the above responsibilities during the to the financial reporting timetable: during the financial year it met year on which we have received and reviewed relevant reports from on five occasions.
I have been Chairman of the Committee since management, the valuers and the internal and the external auditor.
The other Committee members are Aubrey Adams, William Jackson appointed 11 April 2011 and Simon Borrows By invitation, there are a number of regular attendees at each appointed 12 April 2011.
Lord Turnbull was a member of the meeting including the Chairman, the Finance Director, the Group Committee until 11 April 2011 and served on the Committee Financial Controller, the Head of Financial Forecasting and for five years.
All are independent Non-Executive Directors.
I am Reporting, Head of Internal Audit and representatives of the valuers the member nominated as having recent and relevant financial and the external auditor.
Other executives, including the Chief experience.
The other members all have significant financial Executive and the Chief Investment Officer, are invited to attend experience: please see the biographies on pages 70 and 71. from time-to-time.
Responsibilities of the Committee The Committee meets regularly with the external auditor and The Committees principal responsibilities include: Head of Internal Audit without management being present.
monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Areas formally reviewed and discussed by the Committee during Company, any formal announcements relating to the Companys the financial year under the principal headings included: financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained in them: Financial reporting reviewing and monitoring the valuation process: results, commentary and announcements: reviewing the Companys internal financial controls, its key accounting policy judgements: compliance with the Turnbull guidance and the Companys impact of future financial reporting standards: internal control and risk management systems: going concern: review the disclosures in the Annual Report for risk management and the principal risks: valuation processes, particularly with regard to the effect of market conditions on the pricing of investment and development monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys properties.
This included valuer and internal property analyst internal audit function, including its plans, level of resources presentations to the Committee: and and budget: Annual Report sections on Corporate governance.
making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and approving the Risk and Internal Control remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: the Groups principal risks by priority and their mitigations, reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence, including detailed matrices calibrating the priority of each risk: objectivity and effectiveness: an annual report on Internal Control: developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the an annual fraud risk assessment and an independent fraud external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account vulnerability assessment: relevant ethical guidance: whistle-blowing policy: reviewing the Committees terms of reference and monitoring its execution: Bribery Act compliance procedures: considering compliance with legal requirements, accounting the impact of new regulation including the Alternative Investment standards and the Listing Rules: and Fund Managers Directive: reviewing the Whistle-blowing policy and correspondence.
Treasury Policy: approved counterparties and limits: insurance strategy and programme for property, development and corporate: and tax policy.
Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 78 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION External auditor Allocation of time spent at Audit Committee meetings quarterly external auditor reports on planning, conclusions and final opinion: and 2% Other external auditor management letter containing observations 10% arising from the annual audit leading to recommendations Internal audit 30% for control or financial reporting improvement.
Valuation 12% Internal Audit External audit Internal Audit Charter defining its role and responsibilities: The effectiveness of Internal Audit.
This year the Internal Audit function has been reviewed by  PwC to meet the Institute of Internal Auditors standards requiring that an independent review of Internal Audit effectiveness be undertaken at least every five years.
The results of the review confirmed that 21% Group Internal Audit generally conformed with the International Risk and Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing.
British internal control Land management has considered the findings of the PwC review and has concluded that outsourcing will be the best route in driving the further improvements in effectiveness suggested, leveraging 25% Financial results and the skills and expertise of an external specialist provider: accounting policies Internal Audit Programme of reviews of the Groups processes and controls to be undertaken, and an Assurance Map showing the coverage of audit work over three years against the risks: and Action plan for FY2013 Implementation status reports on audit recommendations.
In addition to our responsibilities and normal activities, next year the Committee will have particular focus on monitoring the The Groups internal audit function reports, including those on: development of the risk management processes and reporting within the business.
developments in construction phase UK and Overseas : asset management initiatives: Auditor In best practice and in accordance with its terms of reference the corporate administration and compliance with listing rules: Audit Committee annually reviews the audit requirements of the overseas corporate and property administration: Group, both for the business and in the context of the external environment, and considers whether to undertake a formal tender.
occupational Health and Safety in the UK and European There are no contractual obligations which would restrict the portfolio: and selection of auditor.
spreadsheet risk in property analysis and financial reporting.
In accordance with its normal practice, the Audit Committee Allocation of time considered the performance of the external auditor, including The allocation of time spent on key topics and responsibilities value for money and the quality and effectiveness of the auditor both at the Audit Committee meetings is shown in the chart above.
in the Audit Committees own assessment and where available from Significant Audit Committee member time is also spent at meetings external regulatory review.
The Audit Committee also considered with executive management, understanding the key issues and Deloittes independence, compliance with relevant statutory, underlying processes, setting agendas and meeting with valuers, regulatory and ethical standards and assessed its objectivity.
Having considered these factors the Audit Committee unanimously recommended to the Board that a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte as the Companys external auditor be proposed to shareholders at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee anticipates that it will initiate a tender exercise once there is clarity on auditor appointment guidance from the Financial Reporting Council and European Union and current timetables indicate this is likely to be within the next two years.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 79 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE continued Policy on auditors providing non-audit services Identification and evaluation of commercial risks With respect to other services provided by the auditor the following and related control objectives framework is in place: British Land undertakes a comprehensive risk assessment semiannually, which identifies the principal risks that affect the Group.
audit related services the auditor is one of a number of firms The resulting risk reports are reviewed and discussed by the providing audit related services, which include formal reporting Executive Committee.
The adequacy of risk mitigating strategies relating to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars and and controls are considered at each review.
This helps to assist various work in respect of acquisition and disposals.
Where in defining the risk profile of the business, the risk appetite and they must carry out the work because of their office or are best ensuring alignment to the business strategy.
placed to do so, the auditor is selected.
In other circumstances the selection depends on which firm is best suited: These risk reports are presented to the Audit Committee for tax advisory the auditor is one of a number of firms that provide oversight and discussion, and influence the setting of the internal tax advisory services.
The selection depends on who is best suited audit programme.
Each individual risk is underpinned by risk in the circumstances: and indicators, the management of which is the responsibility of specific Executive Directors and senior executives within the Group.
general consulting the auditor does not provide general consultancy services except in certain circumstances, and then The reporting and discussion of risks to ensure effective risk only after consideration that they are best placed to provide the management is further supported by the presence of a solid service and that their independence and objectivity would not governance structure including the various committees of the be compromised.
Board and executive committees as seen on page 75 which have well defined responsibilities and authorities.
Clearly articulated Drivers Jonas Deloitte, which was acquired by Deloitte LLP in 2010, policies help maintain consistent and regulated practices with provides the Company with advice on the masterplanning of the regard to the key business functions, including development, 75 acres of potential development land around Meadowhall investments and treasury.
Finally, extensive procedural documents Shopping Centre together with occasional advice or services on detail the range of operational level controls in place for the other matters.
The Committee has considered and agreed that this management of risks associated with these transactions, including and other non-audit related services provided by Deloitte may billings and expense management.
continue to be provided, subject to approval by the Committee where expenditure is above established approval limits.
As shown in note 5 The Group has a range of reports that assist management to the financial statements, total fees payable to Deloitte in the last in understanding risks and managing them appropriately.
financial year amounted to 1.1 million, of which 0.4 million was Semi-annually, risk reports are sent to executives and Directors for non-audit related services including 0.3 million for advice and that articulate the key business risks.
Regular management services provided by Drivers Jonas Deloitte.
In addition, further fees reports are prepared and circulated which include a range of risk of 0.3 million 100% share were payable to Deloitte for the audit and performance indicators.
of various joint ventures of the Group.
The approach to risk and the principal risks themselves are The following commitment protocol operated throughout the shown in pages 38 to 43. year and applied to any engagement of other work excluding audit and quarterly reporting performed by the external auditors: approval by the Audit Committee if there are any doubts as to whether the external auditors have a conflict of interest: and Richard Pym in addition, approval by Audit Committee Chairman on behalf Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Committee for each additional project over 0.1 million in value where cumulative fees for other work performed by the auditors are projected to exceed 75% of the combined fee for audit and quarterly reporting review work.
During the year, no project approvals by the Audit Committee Chairman have been required.
Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 80
