Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2012 92 $PNQBOZ JOEFQFOEFOU BVEJUPS T SFQPSU Independent auditors report to the members of Great Portland Estates plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Great Portland Estates plc for the year ended 31 March 2012 which comprise the parent Company balance sheet and the related notes i to vi.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Great Portland Estates plc for the year ended 31 March 2012.
Claire Faulkner Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 23 May 2012 Annual review Financials Governance 93 Governance Pages 93121 O UIJT TFDUJPO XF QSFTFOU UIF SFQPSU PG UIF EJSFDUPST FYQMBJO IPX XF NBJOUBJO B IJHI TUBOEBSE PG DPSQPSBUF HPWFSOBODF BOE EFTDSJCF PVS SFNVOFSBUJPO QPMJDZ BOE QSJODJQMFT 94 Corporate governance 106 Directors remuneration report 116 Report of the directors 120 Directors responsibilities statement Other information 121 Analysis of ordinary shareholdings 122 Notice of meeting 124 Glossary 125 Five year record 126 Financial calendar 127 Shareholders information CGI image of Fetter Lane, EC4 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2012 94 $PSQPSBUF HPWFSOBODF PPE HPWFSOBODF JT CBTFE PO HPPE DPNNVOJDBUJPO B GPDVT PO SJTLT BOE USBOTQBSFODZ JO IPX XF PQFSBUF Corporate governance I believe the effectiveness of your Board in the achievement of good governance is based on good communication, a focus on risks, and a commitment to transparency, all of which have been continually borne in mind in the successful delivery of the Groups strategic priorities.
Strategic priorities and Board oversight of transactions The Groups business model and strategy is outlined on pages 4 to 7.
For the year ended 31 March 2012, the Boards strategic priorities were to: make selected acquisitions that provided value enhancement opportunities and asset management, redevelopment or refurbishment potential: drive rental growth: and execute the Groups development programme.
To ensure that risks associated with major transactions, and how such transactions t in with the Groups strategy for long-term success, are fully debated at Board level, Board approval is required for: all sales and acquisitions where the Groups share is over 25 million: any development expenditure over 15 million: and any leases of 1 million p. a. or above.
In the year ended 31 March 2012, the Board had 13 unscheduled Board meetings, in addition to the seven scheduled Board meetings, to approve a number of transactions.
significant transactions during the year included: enhancing the Groups development pipeline through the purchase of a 2.3 acre site at Rathbone Place, W1 at a low entry cost providing the Group with a major mixed-use redevelopment site: the acquisition of 200 & 214 Grays Inn Road, WC1 where we expect to benefit in the medium term from the impact of the Crossrail and Thameslink projects at Farringdon, and the continued development activity around Kings Cross and St Pancras, at a low entry cost and providing an attractive initial yield of 6.4% with asset management angles: buying the half share not already owned by GPE of five properties from the Great Capital Partnership to enable the refurbishment of Walmar House and 13 14 Great Castle Street in the near-term and medium-term repositioning opportunities in both Soho and Regent Street with a solid income return in the meantime: the pre-let of all 95,600 sq ft of the ofce space at 33 Margaret Street, W1 due for completion in October 2012, bringing forward income receipts: and the pre-let of 105,650 sq ft at 240 Blackfriars Road, materially fide-risking the development and without which the project would not have been started.
The entering into a 150.0 million new five year unsecured revolving credit facility in February 2012 and the securing of a further 127.7 million of private placement notes in March 2012, which we will draw down on 30 May 2012, has ensured the Group continues to have sufficient resources to be able to take advantage of opportunities as they arise whilst extending the Groups debt maturity prole and keeping the Groups cost of debt low at 4.5%.
Following our successes this year and the challenging macro-economic and capital environment, we have exed our priorities for the year ahead to ensure that we maximise shareholder value creation opportunities from both our property portfolio and financial resources, while at the same time appropriately managing risk.
See our strategic priorities on pages 4 to 7.
Annual review Financials Governance 95 Board evaluation Following an external Board evaluation last year, this year, in accordance with our policy, the evaluation process was undertaken by Charles Irby as Senior Independent Director supported by our Company Secretary.
The process covered Board, Committee and personal performance and the output was reviewed at the January 2012 Board meeting to ensure any pertinent points could be incorporated within the Groups strategic review and wider corporate governance review in March 2012.
Overall the process confirmed that the Board and its Committees continued to work effectively and emphasised that the thresholds for decisions were at the right level, with focus being properly directed at material issues.
Cognisant of the impact of ever changing legislation and regulations, it was agreed that an annual presentation on both potential and impending legal and regulatory changes across all areas of the Groups operations including reporting, environmental, health and safety and numerous European industry and nancing directives, would benefit the Board to ensure the potential impacts on the Group were appropriately addressed on a timely basis to help future proof the business.
Board appointments and succession planning In July 2011, we were pleased to welcome Nick Sanderson to the Board as Finance Director, who brings with him a wealth of real estate and capital markets experience.
After six years on the Board, Phillip Rose will be retiring at this years Annual General Meeting and we would like to thank him for his valued contribution to the Boards activities over the years.
In anticipation of Phillip Roses expected retirement from the Board, following consultation with the whole Board of the qualities sought in his successor, we are in the process of recruiting his replacement.
Whilst the Board recognises the benets of gender diversity and will continue to ensure that this is taken into account when considering any particular appointment, the Companys policy remains that selection should be based on the best person for the role.
30% of the Groups senior managers are women with women making up 43% of all employees.
As part of the Strategy Review, the Board reviews the succession planning and development requirements for key executives and senior managers across the team.
During the course of the year ended 31 March 2011, we undertook to increase headcount by almost 15% to help broaden the strength and depth of our asset management, investment, development and finance teams and the individuals concerned are tting in well.
Executive reward linked to the Groups performance for shareholders Under the Groups long-term incentive plans, the Executive Directors and senior management are rewarded for the performance of the Group over a three year period.
I am pleased to be able to report that 100% of the Total Shareholder Return element of the Groups 2008 LTIP and SMP awards vested based on the Group performing in the upper quartile against the constituents of the FTSE 350 Real Estate Sector, and reecting the underlying financial performance of the Company as demonstrated through the trend of the Companys annual KPIs of NAV growth, Total Property Return and Return on Capital Employed.
Total Shareholder Return for the three year period to 2 June 2011 and 9 June 2011 was 23.9% and 27.5% respectively.
Whilst we failed to make the NAV hurdle following the significant fall in property values in 2009, we anticipate the NAV hurdle will be fully met for the three year period to May 2012.
Communication with shareholders Communication with shareholders is given a high priority by the Board with over 165 presentations being made in the year to investors, potential investors and analysts by a combination of the Executive Director team and senior management below the Board.
Independent feedback on presentations by the Executive Directors to all major shareholders is provided to the Non-Executive Directors on a regular basis.
I am pleased to be able to report that in November 2011 we received external recognition for our efforts on our Annual Report by winning the ICSA Hermes 2011 Transparency in Governance Award for the best Annual Report in the FTSE 250.
At the end of April 2012, we also re-launched the Groups website which has been signicantly enhanced in respect of information on the Groups portfolio of properties and actions being taken to enhance its sustainability.
Martin Scicluna Chairman Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2012 96 $PSQPSBUF HPWFSOBODF What is the role of the Board and the Committees and what have they done during the year?
The Board of Directors The Board has a duty to promote the long-term success of the Company for its shareholders and its role includes the establishment, review and monitoring of strategic objectives, approval of major acquisitions, disposals, capital expenditure and nancing arrangements and of the Groups systems of internal control, governance and risk management.
Composition The Board comprises the Chairman, three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
The biographies of all members of the Board are set out on pages 44 and 45.
Martin Scicluna as Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and its effectiveness and Toby Courtauld as Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Company, with the division of responsibilities approved by the Board.
Charles Irby, the Senior Independent Director, is available to shareholders as required and acts as a sounding board for the Chairman.
Balance of Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors 31 March 2012 31 March 2012 Non-Executive Chairman 0-3 years 1 1 Executive Directors 4-6 years Independent Non-Executive Directors 7-9 years 2 4 3 2 Each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered to be independent of the executive management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings by directors and Committee members during the year was as follows: Board Board Nomination Remuneration Audit scheduled other Committee Committee Committee 1 7 meetings 13 meetings 2 meetings 7 meetings 6 meetings Chairman 2 Martin Scicluna 7 13 2 4 4 2 2 Executive Directors Toby Courtauld 7 13 3 Timon Drakesmith 1 1 1 1 4 Nick Sanderson 4 4 10 10 Neil Thompson 7 13 Non-Executive Directors Charles Irby 7 11 2 7 5 Jonathan Nicholls 7 11 2 7 6 Phillip Rose 7 8 2 5 Jonathan Short 7 13 7 6 1 As a result of a number of significant transactions during the year, there were 13 unscheduled Board meetings during the year see page 97.
2 Although Martin Scicluna is not a member of either the Audit or Remuneration Committee, in his role of Chairman, he attends key meetings of the Remuneration Committee relating to the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Audit Committee meetings in respect of the review of the half year and year end results.
The number in parentheses indicates the number of Remuneration and Audit Committee meetings the Chairman is expected to have attended in this respect.
3 Timon Drakesmith resigned from the Board with effect from 27 May 2011.
4 Nick Sanderson joined the Board on 25 July 2011.
Where directors are unable to attend meetings, their comments, as appropriate, are provided to the Board or Committee Chairman prior to the meeting.
Annual review Financials Governance 97 Board activities The Board meets for scheduled Board meetings at least seven times a year.
Key matters reserved for the Board at those meetings include: the setting and monitoring of strategy, including dividend policy: review of the Groups risk and related controls: reviewing performance and implementation of the strategy by the Executive Directors: reviewing the Groups property valuation: significant nancing arrangements: examining major potential acquisitions and disposals: approval of major developments: interim, half year and annual reporting to shareholders: approving policy on key areas including sustainability objectives and targets, health and safety and the environment: Board appointments and the appointment of the Company Secretary: and corporate governance arrangements and the Board evaluation.
Additional Board meetings were held during the year to approve: the appointment of Nick Sanderson see pages 45 and 105 : the acquisition of Rathbone Place, W1 see pages 16 and 17 and page 26 : the purchase of 200 & 214 Grays Inn Road, WC1 see pages 10 and 11 and page 26 : the 100 Bishopsgate, EC1 Business Plan: debt nancing for 200 & 214 Grays Inn Road see page 34 : the pre-let to UBM plc at 240 Blackfriars Road, SE1 see pages 12 and 13 and page 30 : the pre-let of 33 Margaret Street, W1 to Savills plc see pages 12 and 13 and page 30 : the purchase of Capital & Counties Properties PLC half share of five properties held in GCP see page 27 : the sale of 184 190 Oxford Street, W1 see page 28 : the development appraisal for Walmar House, W1 see page 31 : the 127.7 million private placement of seven and ten year unsecured notes see page 34.
At least once a year the Board reviews the nature and scale of matters reserved for its decision.
The Chairman and the other Non-Executives meet regularly without the Executive Directors, and at least once a year the Non-Executives meet without the Chairman.
In addition, individual directors meet regularly outside the formal Board meetings as part of each directors contribution to the delivery of the Companys strategy and review of operations.
The Executive Directors meet weekly as the Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, to deal with the ongoing management of the Group with copies of the minutes of these meetings distributed to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely information, including brieng papers distributed in advance of Board meetings and regular property tours which, this year, included a tour of City Tower and City Place, Fetter Lane, 200 & 214 Grays Inn Road and 100 Bishopsgate.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Chairman on matters of corporate governance.
The Company maintains directors and ofcers liability insurance and pension trustee liability insurance, both of which are reviewed annually.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2012 98 $PSQPSBUF HPWFSOBODF Committees of the Board The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees which deal with specic aspects of the Groups affairs, each of which has written terms of reference and which are reviewed annually by the Board.
Copies of these terms of reference are available on written request and on the Companys website at www.
co. uk investors governance The Chairman of each Committee reports the outcome of the meetings to the Board.
Details of Committee memberships are included in the directors biographies on pages 44 to 45.
Board induction and development On appointment, Non-Executive Directors, who are expected to provide a time commitment to the Company of at least 24 days a year, are provided with a detailed induction programme.
This covers the Companys operations, including social, ethical and environmental matters, and meetings with senior management as part of a guided tour of the Groups main properties.
Following the announcement of his appointment in June 2011, Toby Courtauld and Desna Martin met with Nick Sanderson to discuss the content and timing of his induction programme which included: meeting with senior finance team managers before joining: individual meetings with the Non-Executive Directors and Heads of Department: tours of the Groups portfolio with members of the senior management team: meeting with the auditors: an overview of the timing and purpose of the different Board and Committee meetings held during the year: a walkthrough and review of the Groups business modelling processes with individuals key to the process: a review of the Groups internal control processes: background to the timing, purpose and content of the Groups half year and year-end Appraisal Process: meetings with shareholders, lenders to the Group and equity research analysts: background for his role as one of the Trustees to the Groups dened benefit plan: his appointment to the BPF Finance Committee: and attendance at relevant property industry seminars.
The directors may, at the Companys expense, take independent professional advice and are encouraged to continually update their professional skills and knowledge of the business.
Senior Managers and external advisers presented to the Board during the year on a range of subjects including the outlook for the property market, the West End and City markets and asset management tools used by the Group.
The directors also individually attend seminars or conferences associated with their expertise or responsibility.
The level and nature of training by the directors is reviewed by the Chairman at least annually.
Conicts of interest In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise potential conicts of interest that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks t. The decision to authorise a conict of interest can only be made by non-conicted directors those who have no interest in the matter being considered and in making such a decision the directors must act in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Company has established a procedure whereby actual and potential conicts of interest of current and proposed roles to be undertaken by the Board with other organisations are regularly reviewed in respect of both the nature of those roles, and their time commitment, and for proper authorisation to be sought prior to the appointment of any new director.
The Board consider these procedures to be working effectively.
Annual review Financials Governance 99 Internal controls and risk management The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, at least annually.
Such a system can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
There are ongoing processes and procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group: these processes and procedures were in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report, and accord with the Turnbull guidance Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Key features of the system of internal control include: a comprehensive system of financial reporting and business planning: a dened schedule of matters for decision by the Board: an organisational structure with clearly dened levels of authority and division of responsibilities: formal documentation procedures: the close involvement of the Executive Directors in all aspects of day-to-day operations, including regular meetings with senior management to review all operational aspects of the business and risk management systems: the Board reviewing Group strategy and progress on developments at each scheduled Board meeting: and a formal whistleblowing policy.
Twice a year, the Audit Committee carries out a review of the framework of how the Groups risks are managed through operational management procedures authorisations, ongoing review by the Executive Committee, and Board review and oversight.
The Committee formally considers the scope and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and reports to the Board.
This involves the identication of risks specic to the areas of property and financial markets which impact on the Groups objectives, together with the controls and reporting procedures designed to minimise those risks, which are reviewed, formalised and updated throughout the year, as appropriate.
These include business risks, financial controls, social, ethical and environmental issues and policy, and the regulatory environment.
Key risks to the business, how these have changed during the year and the processes in place by which the Company aims to manage those risks are included on pages 50 to 53.
Relations with shareholders Communication with shareholders is given a high priority and the Company undertakes a regular dialogue with major shareholders and fund managers.
Visits are also arranged to properties of particular interest or signicance, particularly in relation to developments, to assist investors understanding of the Companys business.
The Executive Directors are the Companys principal representatives with investors, analysts, fund managers, press and other interested parties, and independent feedback on presentations by the Executive Directors to all major shareholders is provided to the Non-Executive Directors on a regular basis.
Martin Scicluna, as Chairman, also meets with major shareholders, as appropriate, during the course of the year.
Presentations to analysts are posted on the Companys website at www.
As Chairman and Senior Independent Director, respectively, Martin Scicluna and Charles Irby are each available, as appropriate, as a contact for shareholders.
The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an opportunity to communicate with, and answer questions from, private and institutional shareholders and the whole Board is available before the meeting, in particular, for shareholders to meet new directors.
The Chairman of each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees is available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 5 July 2012 can be found in the Notice of Meeting on pages 122 and 123.
After the Annual General Meeting, the Companys Registrars will count and verify the poll votes.
The results will be announced to the London Stock Exchange and will be published on our website.
Statement by the directors on compliance with the provisions of The UK Corporate Governance Code A summary of the system of governance adopted by the Company is set out on pages 94 to 105.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2012, the Company fully complied with the Main Principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, publicly available at www.
"Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2012 100 $PSQPSBUF HPWFSOBODF Audit Committee ThF ""VEJU $PNNJUUFF SFWJFXT BOE SFQPSUT UP UIF #PBSE PO UIF Chairman: Members: SPVQ T fiOBODJBM SFQPSUJOH JOUFSOBM DPOUSPM BOE SJTL Jonathan Nicholls Charles Irby NBOBHFNFOU TZTUFNT BOE UIF JOEFQFOEFODF BOE FffFDUJWFOFTT Phillip Rose PG UIF BVEJUPST O UIF BCTFODF PG BO JOUFSOBM BVEJU GVODUJPO Jonathan Short UIJT ZFBS XF IBWF TPVHIU SFQPSUT GSPN JDL 4BOEFSTPO BT UIF JODPNJOH 'JOBODF %JSFDUPS PO IJT WJFX PG UIF SPVQ T DPOUSPMT &SOTU :PVOH PO UIF fiOBODJBM DPOUSPMT PG UIF OFX BDDPVOUJOH TZTUFN BOE EFWFMPQNFOU fiOBODF SFQPSUJOH QSPDFTTFT BOE %FMPJUUF PO UIF SPVQ T DPOUSPMT BDSPTT UIF CVTJOFTT JO SFTQFDU PG UIF #SJCFSZ ""DU BOE EFWFMPQNFOU FYQFOEJUVSF DPOUSPMT BT QBSU PG UIFJS FYUFSOBM BVEJU Jonathan Nicholls was previously Group Finance Director of Old Mutual plc and Hanson plc and is Chairman of the Audit Committee of SIG plc and D S Smith plc."
The Audit Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups external auditors and meetings are also attended by certain Executive Directors and Senior Managers by invitation.
Martin Scicluna, as Chairman, also attends the Committee meetings in connection with the half year and year end results.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing, and reporting to the Board on, a range of matters including: the interim management statements, the half year and annual financial statements and significant reporting judgements and key assumptions therein: meetings with the Groups auditors and property valuers: developments in accounting and reporting requirements: the review of the Groups internal control and risk management systems: the Groups systems and controls for the prevention of bribery and reports on non-compliance: the Groups whistleblowing policy: the scope, effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external audit: the external auditors management letter: the level of fees paid to the external auditors for audit and non-audit services: and the potential need for an internal audit function.
Annual review Financials Governance 101 Month Principal activities July 2011 Review of Interim Management Statement Meeting with the Valuers Review of Interim Management Statement Announcement September 2011 Annual planning meeting Meeting with the Auditors Review of: effectiveness and independence of the auditors 2011 management letter accounting and reporting matters 2012 Audit Plan report on internal controls by Nick Sanderson November 2011 Review of half year results Meeting with the Valuers Meeting with the Auditors Review of key accounting judgements Review of the Groups tax matters with the Head of Corporate Finance Review of internal controls and risk management process Review of half year result announcement January 2012 Review of Interim Management Statement Meeting with the Valuers Review of: accounting and reporting matters joint venture checklist for use on creation of new joint ventures financial related controls and development finance reporting processes with Ernst & Young Review of Interim Management Statement Announcement Review of the effectiveness of the Committee through the Board evaluation process February 2012 Year end planning update Meeting with the Auditors Review of: developments in accounting and reporting requirements Audit Plan update Review of Bribery Act controls by Deloitte Review of audit non-audit fees May 2012 Review of year end results Meeting with the Valuers Meeting with the Auditors Review of development expenditure controls by Deloitte Review of the Groups tax matters with the Head of Corporate Finance Review of internal controls and risk management process, and the consideration of the need for internal audit Review of Annual Report Preliminary Announcement Review of the Committees effectiveness Review of relationship between the auditors and GPE management Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2012 102 $PSQPSBUF HPWFSOBODF Accounting and key areas of judgement The Audit Committee uses the Audit Planning meetings in September and February each year to consider proposed accounting treatments for major transactions and significant reporting judgements and key assumptions therein in advance of the half year and year end results.
As the valuation of the Groups portfolio is fundamental to the Groups balance sheet, the Audit Committee together with Martin Scicluna meet with the valuers to discuss the valuation included within the half year and year end financial statements together with changes in market conditions.
The Audit Committee also meets with the valuers to discuss the valuation included in the interim management statements.
With the project at 33 Margaret Street nearing completion and fully pre-let, the Group has provided for a profit share payment to Eurohypo.
The Audit Committee has reviewed and concurred with the complex methodology supporting this calculation.
The external audit The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of the external auditors, their remuneration for audit and non-audit work, and their cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity, and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with the external auditors.
As part of the review of the effectiveness of the auditors, a formal evaluation process incorporating views from the Audit Committee and relevant members of management is considered by the Audit Committee and feedback is provided to the auditors.
In addition to the review of the formal management letter from the auditors which outlines how points raised by the auditors have been addressed by management, feedback is also sought from the auditors on the conduct of members of the finance team during the audit process.
The auditors are responsible for the annual statutory audit and other services which the Audit Committee believe they are best placed to undertake due to their position as auditors.
Under the Groups policy in respect of non-audit services permitted to be provided by the external auditor available from the Companys website at www.
co. uk investors governance, prior approval is required by the Audit Committee for assignments over 50,000, or where such an assignment would take the cumulative total of non-audit fees paid to the external auditors over 50% of that years audit fees to ensure auditor independence and objectivity is maintained.
Drivers Jonas Deloitte, which was acquired by Deloitte LLP in 2010, on occasions provides the Group and the Groups joint ventures with advice on rights of light, party walls and other items involving adjoining owners or third parties neighbourly matters.
Fees paid to Drivers Jonas Deloitte by both the Group and the joint ventures are, therefore, also monitored by the Audit Committee.
During the year activities undertaken by the auditors for the Group outside of the main audit included: reporting on the income cover in connection with the debenture trust deed compliance certicate: advice on the application of new tax compliance legislation to the Group: neighbourly matters undertaken by Drivers Jones Deloitte at 78 92 Great Portland Street and 73 89 Oxford Street, W1: assurance on achievement against 2011 12 sustainability objectives and targets and energy consumption data: and adhoc accounting advice.
Payments made by the Group for audit and non-audit fees for the year are disclosed on page 71.
Deloitte LLP has been the Groups auditor since 2003.
It is a requirement that the audit partner responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits is rotated every five years and the current lead audit partner has been in place since 2009.
Deloitte LLP has confirmed to the Audit Committee that they remain independent and have maintained internal safeguards to ensure their objectivity.
In the opinion of the Audit Committee, the relationship with the auditors works well and the Committee remains satisfied with their independence and effectiveness.
It has, accordingly, not considered it necessary to require the rm to retender for the audit work to date.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
Internal audit Due to its size and structure, the Group does not have an internal audit function, a matter which is kept under review by the Committee.
Although there is no formal internal audit function, a rolling programme of review of key controls is conducted through a combination of the external audit process or through reviews by members of the finance team and or external advisors as appropriate.
As a result of a number of internal and external reviews of the Groups internal financial control processes in the year ended 31 March 2012, it was concluded that the Groups processes were operating effectively with key controls in place and strong oversight by Finance Team management.
Small recommendations for improvement were discussed with the Audit Committee and managements proposed actions were noted.
Annual review Financials Governance 103 Remuneration Committee ThF 3FNVOFSBUJPO $PNNJUUFF IBT SFTQPOTJCJMJUZ GPS Chairman: Members: EFUFSNJOJOH UIF SFNVOFSBUJPO CPOVTFT MPOH UFSN JODFOUJWF Charles Irby Jonathan Nicholls BSSBOHFNFOUT DPOUSBDU UFSNT BOE PUIFS CFOFfiUT JO SFTQFDU Jonathan Short PGUIF &YFDVUJWF %JSFDUPST BOE BQQSPWBM PG SFNVOFSBUJPO BSSBOHFNFOUT GPS TFOJPS FNQMPZFFT BOE UIF $IBJSNBO UBMTPSFWJFXT UIF GSBNFXPSL GPS UIF SFNVOFSBUJPO PG BMM PUIFSFNQMPZFFT P TJHOJfiDBOU DIBOHFT IBWF CFFO NBEF UPUIF SPVQ T SFNVOFSBUJPO TUSVDUVSF EVSJOH UIF ZFBS PSBSFQMBOOFE GPS UIF DPNJOH ZFBS Month Principal activities June 2011 Review of the 2008 LTIP and SMP performance and vesting of awards January 2012 Review of executive remuneration and BIS proposals in respect of executive pay Review of the effectiveness of the Committee through the Board evaluation process March 2012 Review of: proposed salary increases across the Group year end appraisals of Executive Directors, Investment Director and Company Secretary and their objectives and targets set for forthcoming year Senior Manager bonuses Senior Manager salary, bonus and long-term incentive levels for forthcoming year Approval of: Executive Director, Investment Director and Company Secretary discretionary bonuses Executive Director, Investment Director and Company Secretary salary, bonus and long-term incentive levels for forthcoming year May 2012 Review of: Executive Director and employee corporate bonus plan targets 2012 Performance and Matching share awards Chairmans fees for 2012 13 2012 Remuneration Report The Committee has access to professional advice outside the Company, as required.
Its role is described further in the Directors remuneration report on pages 106 to 115.
