Strategic review Governance Our Board Financial statements Other information BOARD EXPERIENCE BY SECTOR BOARD COMPOSITION BOARD DIVERSITY IT Communications Chairman Male 1 Marketing Property Executive Directors Female 4 Retail Non-Executive Director 9 years 1 Finance Investment Independent Non-Executive Directors 6 Government, Education, Charity etc Industry As at 2013 AGM 9 8 1 5 6 10 4 11 2 7 3 1 2 4 5 6 3 John Nelson David Atkins Timon Drakesmith Peter Cole Jean-Philippe Mouton Anthony Watson CBE nOn-exeCutive Chairman Chief exeCutive Chief finanCial Chief investment exeCutive DireCtOr DireCtOr anD OffiCer OffiCer seniOr inDepenDent DireCtOr 7 8 9 10 11 Gwyn Burr Jacques Espinasse Terry Duddy John Hirst Judy Gibbons nOn-exeCutive nOn-exeCutive nOn-exeCutive nOn-exeCutive nOn-exeCutive DireCtOr DireCtOr DireCtOr DireCtOr DireCtOr HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 51 Strategic review Governance Our Board Financial statements Other information Our Board a balanced and experienced Board 1 2 3 John Nelson David Atkins Timon Drakesmith Chairman Age 65 Chief Executive Age 46 Chief Financial Officer Age 47 Appointed to the Board: 1 May 2004.
Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2007 Appointed to the Board: 30 June 2011.
Committee Membership: Remuneration and appointed Chief Executive on Skills and experience: Timon Drakesmith Committee and Chairman of the Nomination 1 October 2009. is a Chartered Accountant who joined the Committee.
Skills and experience: David Atkins is Company in 2011 as Chief Financial Officer.
Skills and experience: John Nelson is a a Chartered Surveyor who joined the He has experience of working in commercial Chartered Accountant with a strong banking Company in 1998.
His career at Hammerson property having spent 6 years as finance background.
He was appointed as Chairman began as Group Property Executive, director at Great Portland Estates plc.
of Lloyds of London in October 2011.
He is responsible for strategy and investment Other appointments: Non-executive also a senior advisor to Charterhouse Capital performance, where he worked on a number director of Value Retail PLC and chairman Partners LLP.
of overseas transactions, particularly in of the British Property Federations finance Other appointments: Trustee of the France.
In 2002 he took responsibility for committee.
National Gallery and chairman of its the UK retail parks portfolio and in 2006 Past appointments: Finance director of the development board.
he became responsible for the wider UK MK Electric division of Novar plc and group Past appointments: Deputy chairman and retail portfolio.
director of financial operations of Novar plc.
senior independent director of Kingfisher Other appointments: Chairman of the Other financial roles at Credit Suisse, Barclays plc.
Non-executive director of BT Group European Public Real Estate Association.
and Deloitte Haskins and Sells.
plc, Cazenove Group Limited, J. P. Morgan Director and junior vice president of Cazenove Holdings, Woolwich plc and the British Council of Shopping Centres.
Member of the Member of the policy committee of the Anthony Watson CBE chairmans advisory group of KPMG.
British Property Federation and the advisory Non-Executive Director and Senior committee of the British Council of Shopping Independent Director Age 67 Centres.
Member of the Royal Institution of Appointed to the Board: 1 February 2006.
Chartered Surveyors Commercial Property Committee Membership: Audit Market Forum.
4 Committee, Nomination Committee and Peter Cole Chairman of Remuneration Committee.
5 Chief Investment Officer Age 54 Skills and experience: Anthony Watson Jean-Philippe Mouton has a strong financial and legal background.
Appointed to the Board: 1 October 1999.
Executive Director Age 51 He is a frequent speaker and contributor Skills and experience: Peter Cole is a to corporate governance debates and is Chartered Surveyor who joined the Company Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2013. well placed to understand shareholders in 1989 as a Senior Development Surveyor Skills and experience: Jean-Philippe requirements, essential for his role as and was appointed to the Board of the Mouton joined Hammerson in 2003 with Senior Independent Director.
He has had responsibility for property leasing, development Other appointments: Non-executive responsibility for Hammersons development, and asset management in France.
In 2006, director of Lloyds Banking Group plc and senior acquisition and disposal programme since he assumed responsibility for managing the independent director of both Witan Investment being appointed to the Board.
In addition, he French portfolio as Director of Operations Trust plc and Vodafone Group plc.
Member of has led major re-generation and investment and in 2009 became the Managing Director the advisory board of the Association of projects.
JeanCorporate Treasurers and the board of the Past appointments: President and general Philippes in-depth experience of the French Shareholder Executive.
Chairman of Lincolns council member of the City Property business strengthens the Boards integrated Inn investment committee.
approach across the UK and France.
He also Queens University of Belfast foundation board.
has Board responsibility for marketing where Past appointments: Chairman of Marks he can draw on years of experience working & Spencer Pension Trust Limited, Asian for Disneyland Paris.
Infrastructure Fund Limited and Strategic Past appointments: Director of strategic Investment Board Northern Ireland.
planning at Disneyland Paris and roles at Member of Norges Bank Investment The Walt Disney Company and Standard Management advisory board.
52 HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Strategic review Governance Our Board Financial statements Other information 1 5 10 9 6 8 7 11 2 3 4 7 8 9 Gwyn Burr Jacques Espinasse Terry Duddy Non-Executive Director Age 50 Non-Executive Director Age 69 Non-Executive Director Age 56 Appointed to the Board: 21 May 2012.
Appointed to the Board: 1 May 2007.
Appointed to the Board: 3 December Committee Membership: Audit Committee.
Skills and experience: Gwyn Burr has Skills and experience: Jacques Espinasse has a Committee Membership: Nomination expertise in understanding and leading BBA and MBA, which complement his long Committee and Remuneration Committee.
customer service processes for major retail business career in many different sectors, Skills and experience: Terry Duddy is brands which supports Hammersons focus based in Brussels, London and Paris.
He has chief executive of Home Retail Group plc.
extensive knowledge of and insight into the addition to the capabilities and experience Other appointments: Customer service French market.
related to managing a large public company, and colleague director at J Sainsbury plc.
Other appointments: Non-executive director he brings specific insight into customer Member of board, remuneration committee and chairman of the audit committee of AXA behaviour and retail markets, which is a major and chairman of nominations committee of Holdings Belgium, AXA Bank Europe and focus for Hammersons strategy.
Non-executive director and Other appointments: Trustee of Education of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Nonmember of the audit and remuneration and Employers Taskforce.
executive director of Wembley Stadium.
committees of LBPAM and SES.
Chairman Past appointments: Director of DSG Retail Chair of Business in the Community BITC and chief executive officer of the Foundation Limited.
Past appointments: Senior roles in Past appointments: Chief financial officer 12 marketing, customer service and financial of Vivendi.
Non-executive director of Canal David Tyler pictured top left services at Asda plc.
Non-executive France, Maroc Telecom, SFR and Universal Non-Executive Director Age 60 director at the Principality Building Society.
Director at Incorporated Society of British Appointed to the Board: 12 January 2013.
Judy Gibbons Skills and experience: David Tyler is an Non-Executive Director Age 56 10 experienced chairman having served in Appointed to the Board: 1 May 2011. that role previously at Logica plc and 3i John Hirst Committee Membership: Audit Committee Quoted Private Equity plc and currently Non-Executive Director Age 60 and Remuneration Committee.
He has considerable Appointed to the Board: 1 March 2004.
Skills and experience: Judy Gibbons experience of both retail and finance Committee Membership: Chairman of has a background in software, internet and is a Management Accountant.
technologies, digital media, mobile Other appointments: Chairman of Skills and experience: John Hirst is a applications and e-commerce.
She also J Sainsbury plc and non-executive director Chartered Accountant.
He has extensive has extensive experience in marketing and of Burberry plc.
Fellow of the Chartered corporate experience having held senior international business.
Institute of Management Accountants positions at ICI plc and Premier Farnell plc Other appointments: Non-executive and a member of the Association of where he successfully led a re-positioning director of Guardian Media Group plc, Corporate Treasurers.
Michael Kors Holdings Limited and Virgin Past appointments: Finance director of Other appointments: Chief executive of Money Giving and chairman of Refresh GUS plc and has held senior financial and the Met Office and chairman of the audit Mobile Limited.
general management roles with Christies committee of the World Meteorological Past appointments: Non-executive International plc, County NatWest Limited Organization.
Director of Epilepsy Research director of O2 plc.
Corporate vice president and Unilever PLC.
Chairman of Logica plc UK and a trustee of Epilepsy Bereaved.
Venture partner and 3i Quoted Private Equity plc and a Member of Exeter University Business of Accel Partners.
Senior roles in marketing non-executive director of Experian plc and Schools advisory board.
and product development at Apple Inc. and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Past appointments: Group chief executive Hewlett-Packard.
of Premier Farnell plc and chairman of ASBISC Enterprises plc.
