Strategic review Governance Leadership Financial statements Other information leadership Our Board is collectively responsible for our long-term success During 2012 the Board continued unable to attend a meeting, their comments Anthony Watson continued to serve as Senior to consider the main principles and on papers to be considered at the meeting Independent Director during 2012 and is provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate may be provided in advance to the Chairman.
available to address shareholders concerns Governance Code the UK Code and The following table shows current Directors on governance and, if necessary, other has sought to put in place practices attendance at Board and Committee meetings issues that have not been resolved through to enable full compliance with these.
they were eligible to attend in 2012: the normal channels of communication with Except where otherwise stated, the the Chairman, or Chief Executive, or Chief Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Company has complied with the UK Financial Officer, or in cases when such John Code throughout the year ended communications would be inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director can also David Atkins 10 10 deputise for the Chairman in his absence, act The role and structure of the Board Peter as a sounding board for the Chairman and Cole 10 10 be available to advise and counsel all Board The Board is collectively responsible to the colleagues.
Biographical details and the dates Timon Companys shareholders for the long-term of appointment of all current Directors are Drakesmith 10 10 success of the Group and the long-term 1 provided on pages 52 and 53.
Gwyn Burr 5 6 2 2 strategic and operational objectives of the Terry Group.
The Board sets the strategic direction, 2 Board decisions and activity Duddy 9 10 6 6 3 3 governance and values of the Group and has Jacques ultimate responsibility for the management, The Board, which has ultimate responsibility Espinasse 10 10 4 4 direction and performance of the Group.
for Hammersons business and financial Judy The Board is a diverse group, the majority of strategy and for its overall management, Gibbons 10 10 4 4 6 6 whom are independent.
Whilst the Board has operates within the terms of its written John a formal list of matters specifically reserved authorities, and has a formal schedule of Hirst 10 10 4 4 for its decision, it delegates authority to matters reserved for its approval, which are Anthony Committees of the Board to assist in meeting reviewed annually.
These matters include: 3 Watson 9 10 4 4 6 6 3 3 its business objectives whilst ensuring a strategy 1 Gwyn Burr joined the Board on 21 May 2012 and was sound system of internal control and risk unable to join the June Board meeting due to an unresolved management.
acquisition and divestment policy diary clash.
2 Terry Duddy was unable to attend the November The Board currently consists of the Chairman, major capital expenditure projects Board meeting due to his plane being grounded four Executive Directors and seven Nonin the New York storms.
treasury and financial risk management Executive Directors, all of whom are 3 Anthony Watson was unable to join the June considered to be independent by the Board.
c orporate governance Board meeting due to an unresolved diary clash.
The Board met 10 times during 2012. major contracts There were further ad hoc telephone Board Non-Executive Directors are encouraged meetings called at short notice to deal with risk management to communicate directly with Executive transactional matters.
Directors and senior management between remuneration policy formal Board meetings.
In addition to regular The Chairman, John Nelson, was independent m onitoring performance Board meetings, the Board takes part in an on his original appointment to the Board.
annual strategy day at which it considers the The Chairman sets the Board agenda and internal control future direction of the Company at the start ensures that important matters and, in h uman resources of the business planning process.
All Directors particular, strategic issues, receive adequate are expected to attend all meetings of the time and attention at meetings.
The roles and corporate responsibility Board, and of those Committees on which responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief reporting to shareholders.
they serve, and to devote sufficient time to Executive, are clearly defined and documented the Companys affairs to enable them to fulfil and approved by the Board.
When Directors are 54 HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Strategic review Governance Leadership Financial statements Other information 1 areaS oF board FocuS during 2012 Feb Feb march april may June July Sept nov dec Core items Chief Executive report Finance report Property portfolio Timetabled items Strategic planning and review Risk management and internal controls Board briefings Financial reporting Shareholder interaction Corporate operational items IT, pensions, HR Corporate social responsibility Financial risk management Corporate governance Asset oversight 1 Two scheduled meetings were held in February.
No meeting was held in January, August or October.
A schedule of regular matters to be addressed our governance Framework by the Board and its Committees is agreed on an annual basis and information is supplied Hammerson plc Board to Directors in a manner that enables them to fulfil their responsibilities.
This includes the circulation of comprehensive briefing papers Audit Remuneration Nomination Ad hoc Committee Committee Committee committee s one week prior to Board and Committee meetings.
Presentations on business, financial and operational issues are made regularly to the Board by senior management and 1 Group Executive Committee the annual programme of Board meetings is chaired by the Chief Executive tailored to enable some meetings to be held at the Companys properties.
During 2012, the Board visited the Companys shopping centres Operating Boards in Birmingham and offices in Paris.
In addition Risk and Controls 2 Committee Hammerson France to the encouragement of strategic debate at UK Retail Executive Management Board all Board meetings, the annual strategy day provides a forum at which all Directors are 1 The Group Executive Committee GEC, formed and chaired by the Chief Executive, consists of the senior management invited to challenge strategic direction and in the business.
The purpose of the GEC is to provide executive management of the Company within the strategy and help develop strategic options for the future.
budget approved by the Board.
The GEC therefore supports the Board and the Chief Executive in the discharge of their duties towards the Company by implementing at an operational level decisions agreed by the Board.
The GEC has its own terms of reference.
Board Committee structure 2 For a description of the Risk and Controls Committee, see page 60.
Specific responsibilities are delegated to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees of the Board, each of which committee memberShip has written terms of reference that deal clearly with the authorities and duties of Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee the Committee.
Copies of all the Committee Director Tenure Director Tenure Director Tenure terms of reference, which are reviewed John Hirst Ch 8.5 years Anthony Watson Ch 7 years John Nelson Ch 8 years annually, are available on the Companys website.
Each of these Committees is Gwyn Burr 1 year John Nelson 8.5 years Terry Duddy 3 years comprised of independent Non-Executive Jacques Espinasse 6 years Terry Duddy 2 years Anthony Watson 6 years Directors of the Company who are appointed Judy Gibbons 2 years Judy Gibbons 1 year by the Board on the recommendation of the Anthony Watson 3.5 years David Tyler 4 months Nomination Committee.
The Company As at 2013 AGM Secretary is secretary to each Committee.
The Chairman of each Committee reports the outcome of meetings to the Board.
