UK Corporate Governance Code A summary of the system of governance adopted by the Company follows.
The Company applied the main principles of the UK The Board of Directors Corporate Governance Code the Code published by Details of the Directors are set out on page 67 to 69. the Financial Reporting Council in June 2012 throughout The Board consists of five independent Non-Executive the year with the exception of the composition of the Directors, including the Chairman, and three Executive Remuneration Committee.
The Board has determined that all the Nonthat only having two independent Non-Executive Executive Directors are independent.
In determining Directors on the Remuneration Committee does not the independence of Stephen Gee, the Board considered comply with the provisions of the Code however, we whether his previous role as a Non-Executive Director of believe that for a Company with only 70 employees, as Ashtenne Holdings plc might affect his independence.
at 31 December 2012, two independent Non-Executive The Board concluded that his independence of character Directors, one of whom chairs the meeting, together with and judgement are not compromised based on a number the Non-Executive Chairman considered independent of factors, including his experience and knowledge, the on appointment is an appropriate composition.
significant changes in the economic and commercial environment since his tenure at Ashtenne, and the Given the size of the Group and the centralised nature fact that he has always exercised strong independent of its operations which are under the direct supervision judgment.
The roles and responsibilities of the of management, the Committee does not believe that an Chairman, Executive Directors and Non-Executive internal audit function is merited at this time but will Directors are clearly defined.
The Board is satisfied continue to monitor this position.
that the Non-Executive Directors, each of whom is The Company complies with the Corporate Governance independent from management and has no commercial Statement requirements pursuant to the FSAs Disclosure or other connection with the Company, are able to and Transparency Rules by virtue of the information exercise independent judgement.
The appointment of included in this Corporate Governance section of the new Directors is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Annual Report and Accounts together with information Board is responsible to shareholders of the Company for contained in the Directors Report on pages 71 to 75 and the strategy and future development of the Group and in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages the efficient management of its resources.
Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decision, which includes approval of annual budgets, acquisition The Board is committed to high standards of risk and divestment policy, approval of major capital projects, management and internal control and, as such, supports the raising of finance and management policies.
the principles of the Code.
The way in which it applies The Board is supplied, in a timely fashion, with the these principles is set out below and in the Report of the information it needs to enable it to discharge its duties.
Remuneration Committee on pages 86 to 95 The Board is also kept informed of changes in relevant Relations with shareholders legislation and changing commercial risks, and each Director has access to independent professional advice The Executive Directors regularly meet with institutional and the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Private investors are also accordance with the provisions of the Code, all Directors encouraged to meet with the Board and to participate in will submit themselves for re-election annually.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions, where appropriate, at the Annual General Meeting.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 81 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The schedule below sets out the number of principal Board and Committee meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2012 together with individual attendance by Board Members at those meetings.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee James Hambro 7 - 1 3 Morgan Jones 7 - 1 - Ian Watson 7 - 1 - Richard Lowes 7 - - - Stephen Gee 7 3 1 - Richard Mully 6 3 1 3 Richard Cotton 7 - 1 3 Humphrey Price 7 3 1 - Number of meetings during the year 7 3 1 3 The Board has the following standing Committees: one time.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and for Audit Committee making recommendations in respect of any changes and appointments.
The Audit Committee comprises Stephen Gee Chairman, Richard Mully and Humphrey Price.
Senior Remuneration Committee representatives of the external auditors, Executive Directors and senior management may be invited to The Remuneration Committee comprises Richard attend the meetings.
The Committees report, including Cotton Chairman, James Hambro and Richard Mully.
details of its responsibilities, is set out on pages 83 to 85.
It is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on all aspects of remuneration policy for Executive Nomination Committee Directors.
The Committees report is set out on pages 86 to 95.
The composition of the Nomination Committee was reviewed in November 2012 and now comprises, James The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, Hambro who took over the Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee are Committee from Humphrey Price, Humphrey Price, available on the Companys website Richard Cotton, Richard Mully, and any one of the Joint www.
Chief Executives, Morgan Jones and Ian Watson, at any 82 HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC
