Report of the Audit Committee Composition of the Committee The Board has established an Audit Committee the considering all matters relating to the Committee of three independent Non-Executive recommendation for appointment, reDirectors as required by the 2010 UK Corporate appointment, remuneration and terms of Governance Code the Code.
Stephen Gee is Chairman engagement of the Groups external auditors: of the Committee with Richard Mully and Humphrey monitoring the Groups internal audit Price as the other members.
Humphrey Price is the requirements, internal financial controls and the Committee member identified as having recent and audit process: relevant financial experience as required by the Code reviewing the interim and full year financial although all the members of the Committee have statements prior to their submission to the Board, extensive financial experience.
No members of the applying the Groups accounting policies and any Committee have links with the Companys external changes to financial reporting requirements: and auditors.
undertaking a review of the Groups risks on Senior representatives of the external auditors, Executive a bi-annual basis.
Directors and senior management may be invited to attend the meetings at the Committees discretion.
The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee, unchanged from the date of adoption following a review The Company believes the Committee contains the right during the year, are available on the Companys website balance of knowledge, skill and experience to support www.
the business in achieving its strategy.
During 2012 the Committees agenda also included a The Committee meets regularly during the year aligned review of the Groups treasury position.
to the financial reporting timetable and during 2012 the Committee met three times with all members in External Auditors attendance on each occasion.
The Groups external auditors are Deloitte LLP.
The audit Responsibilities of the Committee partner responsible for the Groups audit matters is changed every five years in accordance with the Ethical The Committees principle responsibilities include: Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
ensuring that management has systems and In forming their opinion on the independence and procedures in place to ensure the integrity of objectivity of the external auditors, the Committee takes financial information: into account the safeguards operating within Deloitte.
developing and implementing the policy for the Under the Companys policy governing the provision of provision of non-audit services by the auditors: non-audit services by the external auditors, they may not provide a service which places them in a position where maintaining an appropriate relationship with they may be required to audit their own work.
the Groups external auditors, reviewing the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the Specifically, they are precluded from providing services external auditors, considering both the scope of relating to bookkeeping or other services relating their work and the fees paid to them for audit and to accounting records or financial statements of the non-audit services: Group, financial information system design and ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 83 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE implementation, appraisal or evaluation services, Committee remains satisfied with their independence actuarial services, any management functions, and effectiveness.
Accordingly, to date, it has not investment banking services, legal services unrelated considered it necessary to require Deloitte to re-tender to the audit, remuneration related services or advocacy for the audit work, although this will be reviewed services.
periodically, to ensure that the audit remains high quality and effective.
The external auditors are required to rotate To fulfil its responsibilities regarding the external audit partners responsible for the Group audit every auditors, the Committee reviewed: five years and the current lead audit partner has been in the scope of the audit as set out in the external place for two years.
There are no contractual obligations auditors engagement letter: restricting the Groups choice of external auditor.
the external auditors overall work plan: The Committee meets regularly with the external auditor without management being present.
the external auditors fee proposal: a report from the external auditors describing their Internal Control arrangements to ensure objectivity and to identify, An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and report and manage any conflicts of interest: and, managing the most significant risks faced by the Group has been in place throughout the year and up to the date the extent of non-audit services provided by the of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
That external auditors to ensure that they are not placed process which accords with the Turnbull guidance and in a position to audit their own work.
the Boards review of that process is set out below.
During 2012, services provided by Deloitte and their associates to the Group, in addition to acting as external The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the auditors, included tax advice in respect of UK and Groups system of internal controls, including the review overseas income tax, VAT and property tax.
of its effectiveness and suitable monitoring procedures, in order to safeguard shareholders investment and Where non-audit services are provided, the fees are the assets of the Group as well as the integrity of its based on the work undertaken and are not success accounting records and provide reliable information related.
Consideration is given to the nature of and for use within the business and for publication.
The remuneration received for other services provided Directors acknowledge that such a system is designed by Deloitte to the Group and confirmation is sought to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure from them that the fee payable for the annual audit is to achieve business objectives and can provide only adequate to enable them to perform their obligations in reasonable and not absolute assurance against material accordance with the scope of the audit.
The Committee misstatement or loss.
has fully evaluated all non audit work undertaken by The Directors have reviewed, as part of the year-end Deloitte during the year against its policy and remains procedures, the effectiveness of the system of internal comfortable that it is appropriate and the fees justified.
control for the period under review and up to the Payments made by the Group for audit and non-audit date of this report, the key element of which is a risk fees for the year are disclosed on page 42. management process whereby key risks to achieving our The Committee has reviewed the briefing paper on objectives and strategy as well as related controls and effective communication between audit committees monitoring procedures in respect of those controls are and external auditors issued by the Auditing Practices identified in a risk register.
The risk register is reviewed Board.
Having considered the recommendations of the bi-annually and updated where appropriate and reports briefing paper in respect of the external auditors, the received from the Executive on control procedures, and Committee has concluded that the relationship with the any areas for improvement are agreed for subsequent external auditors meets the recommendations and the action.
84 HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE This process is supported by: Management structure There is a clear organisational structure with welldefined lines of reporting and responsibility.
Financial reporting There are reporting disciplines including performance monitoring and profit and cash forecasting.
Investment appraisal The Group has a clearly defined framework for capital and development expenditure and subsequent on-going appraisals.
In addition, the key internal controls include regular meetings of the Board and Committee whose overall responsibilities are set out above.
During the course of its reviews of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
Stephen Gee Chairman of the Audit Committee 8 March 2013 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 85
