Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Governance and remuneration overview Corporate Governance Remuneration The governance structure of the Group, set out in detail in The Remuneration Committee carried out a root-and-branch theGovernance section on pages 60 to 73, is well established review of remuneration policy, followed by a comprehensive and includes delegated committees of the Board operating process of consultation with large shareholders seeking views under specified terms of reference, established authority limits on our proposed new remuneration policy.
at Board, Committee and individual level, and various policies The key areas of focus for the Remuneration Committee in and procedures to cover specic matters such astransactions 2012have been: out of the ordinary course of business and a Board Protocol to be observed for all related party transactions.
G Proposed new remuneration policy to be introduced effective from 1 January 2013 subject to shareholder approval at the The Board Protocol was adopted in 2012 for situations where forthcoming AGM.
The proposed new policy has been the aproposed transaction could be captured by the related party subject of a comprehensive consultation with shareholders provisions of the Listing Rules orby the Companies Act 2006, G The Executive Directors salaries will be increased by 4.9 per and was observed during the Companys transactions with the cent from 1 April 2013, broadly in line with increases across Peel Group of which John Whittaker is Chairman in early 2012. the Group Succession planning, particularly at Board level, has been G The annual bonus awarded to the Executive Directors for akeyelement of the work of the Nomination and Review theyear ended 31 December 2012 was determined by the Committee and the Board in 2012 following the decisions of Remuneration Committee under the rules of the existing John Abel andRob Rowley to retire as Non-Executive Directors.
bonus scheme, which will cease to operate, subject to approval Weappointed Adle Anderson as a new Non-Executive Director by shareholders of the new proposals at the forthcoming and member of the Audit Committee on 22 February 2013: AGM.
If approved, the new arrangements will take effect from Adle will take over from Rob Rowley as Chairman of the 1January 2013.
Adles appointment also results in an increase in the proportion G Improved transparency through early adoption of the of women from 9 per cent at the end of 2012 to 20 per cent at majorityof the Governments new recommendations for the end of 2013 assuming there are no further board changes remuneration report structure and content on the Intu Board, demonstrating our ongoing commitment Shareholder concerns raised during the 2012 reporting season toboardroom diversity but without comprising the overriding have also been addressed, in particular the continued use requirement to appoint the best qualied candidate for the role.
 criteria and cliff-vesting for awards ofoptions, and the Remuneration Committees discretion Intu has adopted most of the new provisions of the 2012 UK toaccelerate the vesting of options on a change ofcontrol.
Corporate Governance Code and will introduce measures during Thenew PSP provides for sliding scale vesting on two separate 2013 to address the remaining new Code requirements which performance criteria, measured over three, four and five-year relate to ensuring the integrity of the annual report and accounts.
Additionally, the rules of the PSP provide that, on a change of control, awards of Performance Shares under the plan will vest to the extent that the Committee determines thatany applicable performance conditions have been or wouldlikely have been satisfied.
The number of shares to vestinsuch circumstances will also generally be reduced to reect areduced service period.
Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 13 Weve worked on ourretailer mix and catering offer, made high impact low outlay improvements and pursued consents for future growth.
14 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Case study Braehead bringing it alltogether All the elements of Intus asset management approach and operational strategy can be seen working together at Braehead, Scotlands best shopping and leisure complex.
Weve reappraised the centre and made changes.
Weve worked on our retailer mix and catering offer, made high impact low outlay improvements, and pursued consents for future growth.
Business model We have made good progress in bringing in new names such as Schuh.
And were providing growth opportunities for and strategy successful retailers including Next, whoare expanding into a new 35,000 sq.
We have invested in the food offer.
As wellas increasing the range, including a In this section glamorous champagne bar, weve moved escalators to strengthen links with the 16 Business model main mall.
We have refreshed the upper 18 Strategy level with double height signage zones 20 Key performance indicators giving the mall a totally different feel.
22 Our people At the same time we have established 26 Key risks and uncertainties an11 per cent increase in headline rent.
28 Top properties In early 2012 we bought 30 acres of land for future development and in December we took full ownership of the Xscape leisure scheme.
In November 2012 the Council resolved to recognise Braehead as a town centre and in January 2013 we submitted a planning application for a major expansion including a transport interchange, entertainment facilities, ahotel and 440,000 sq.
200m Proposed investment 11% Increase in headline rent psf Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 15 Business model and strategy Business model Our focus, scale and quality set us apart allowing us to create value for shoppers, retailers and shareholders We provide people Allowing us to establish with the perfect enduring relationships shopping experience with retailers With shopping centres in the best locations The powerful footfall that results is across the country.
And by developing and actively managing While we demonstrate operating these centres to provide the right mix of excellence, managing our centres to retail, leisure and catering.
provide the right trading environment.
Our business model is enabled by: Talented employees A robust capital structure Professional, motivated and empowered Astute financial management to teams, specialists in their eld, focused on maximisefunding options for disciplined creating mutually-beneficial opportunities and shrewdinvestment.
See Our people on pages 22 to 25 See Financial review on pages 44 to 49 16 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Ownership of major UK shopping centres Intu 13 Hammerson 9 Land Securities 6 10 Henderson 4 Of the top 25 UK shopping centres PruPIM 3 Aviva 3 Westeld 3 Standard Life 2 2 3 British Land 2 GIC 2 Of the population live within 45 minute Canada Pension Plan 2 drive of an Intu centre Number of shopping centres 400,000 sq.
ft. in 50 highest rented locations where owner has at least 33 per cent share.
Source: PMA 2012 Which delivers And generates long-term growth returns for for Intu shareholders This ensures that occupancy Our thriving centres are sought-after remainsstrong.
investments, supporting access to capital and creating value for shareholders.
And drives rental income over thelongterm.
A long-term focus A balanced approach to risk Creative and collaborative approach Risk management is underpinned by tolong-term investment and growth, rigorous analysis in the context of potential facilitated by development expertise threats to strategic objectives.
See Corporate responsibility on pages 52 to 57 See Key risks and uncertainties on pages 26 and 27 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 17 Business model and strategy continued Strategy We have clear strategic objectives to ensure the business model is put into action effectively We provide people Allowing us to establish with the perfect enduring relationships shopping experience with retailers Strategic objective Strategic objective To provide compelling destinations To be the landlord that retailers forshoppers wanttodobusiness with How we are delivering on our strategy How we are delivering on our strategy Finding and showcasing the best mix of retailers Highest footfall locations across the UK The most accessible locations for shopping and socialising Specialist and collaborative approach to retail change Excellent service, security and facilities Impeccable yet cost-effective facilities management Marketing events that create theatre and experience Consistently deliver creative developments Innovative and effective marketing Progress 2012 Progress 2012 26 new brands to our centres in 2012 including Forever 21, Creative recongurations to deliver larger stores for Apple Nespresso and Hamleys.
Compelling brands such as Apple, at Arndale, Schuh at Braehead, Forever 21 at Lakeside See Operating review on page 39 Armani AX, LOccitane, Office, Swarovski and Thomas Sabo introduced to new cities Fourth successive year of improvement in Real Service Exciting new catering concepts introduced at most centres retailer survey results Willingness to Recommend up during 2012 See case study on page 43 three percentage points Thousands attracted to our centres to take part in Elites national model search nationwide media coverage of Braehead-based winner Ongoing initiatives Ongoing initiatives 1,800 staff involved in World Class Service programmeLaunching intu.
co. uk in April 2013, a transactional, coming to all intu centres in 2013 fashion-focused, mobile-enabled website with a curated See Operating review on page 41 range of products from our retailers High prole national marketing events uniquely deliverable Nationwide intu brand will much improve the effectiveness through Intus network of primecentres of centre-by-centre marketing spend 18 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Which delivers And generates long-term growth returns for for Intu shareholders Strategic objective Strategic objective To create long-term and sustainable To generate superior shareholder growth in net rental income returnsthrough dividend growth andcapital appreciation How we are delivering on our strategy How we are delivering on our strategy Astute investment in improvements Tight cost control and lean operation Specialist knowledge of emerging occupier and Efficient use of debt markets management trends Creative involvement of non-equity partners Non-rental income from shoppingcentres Long-term partnerships with local authorities andcommunities Progress 2012 Progress 2012 Sector-leading innovation to direct leasing proves highly Well-timed convertible bond issue broadens the successful at Chimes, Uxbridge now 100 per cent let with capitalstructure and accesses funds at a historically See Financial review on pages 44 to 49 Swarovski and Office introduced lowinterest rate See case study on page59 Planning consent obtained for an additional 650,000sq.
Replacing 55,000 lamps with LED lighting to save of retail and catering across the UK 8,000tonnes of carbon a year with just a three year SeeOperating review on page 40 payback period See CR report on page 55 Ongoing initiatives Ongoing initiatives Active management and major organic development Currently working with banks and advisers on a new debt projects being progressed at several centres with a view funding platform tolong-term income growth SeeFinancial review on page 49 See Operating review on pages 39 and 40 See how were performing against our KPIs on pages 20 and 21 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 19 Business model and strategy continued Key performance indicators We measure progress against strategic objectives using the following financial and non-financial performance measures 1.
To provide compelling destinations for shoppers Why is this important?
Footfall Footfall is an important Footfall numbers across Although footfall fell measure of a centres Intus centres, including slightlyin the year, the 3% popularity with customers.
those managed by our Groups centres continue 2% Retailers use this measure as partners, are captured toout-perform the national a key part of their decision usinga combination of benchmark which showed making process onwhere to person or car counting athree per cent reduction locate their stores.
cameras located at specic in2012, as measured entrance and exit points byExperian.
To be the landlord that retailers want to do business with Why is this important?
Occupancy Intu aims to maximise The passing rent of the Occupancy is marginally theoccupancy of its Groups properties currently below the 2011 comparable 98% 97% 96% 94% properties asvacant occupied expressed as a gure but remains above spacewill adversely percentage of the passing theIPD benchmark gure.
impacton a centres rent of occupied and the tradingenvironment.
To create long-term and sustainable growth in net rental income Why is this important?
Like-for-like net rental income Measures the organic Removes from the The reduction in the growthinincome generated year-on-year movement like-for-like net rental income 3.6% from the Groups properties innet rental income the was due to successful 2.1% in the year.
impact of acquisitions, relettings only partly developments and disposals.
offsetting the impact of tenant failures in 2012.
2.7% 2010 2011 2012 Current year See Corporate Responsibility KPIs on pages 51 to 57 Historic comparative Benchmark comparative 20 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility 4.
To generate superior shareholders returns through dividend growth and capital appreciation Why is this important?
Shareholder return Combines share price Uses the movement in share Both the Group and the FTSE movement and dividends to price during the yearplus REIT index out-performed 30% produce a direct measure of dividends paid intheyear.
17% the movement in shareholder However strong performance value intheyear.
from Central London 7% property focused companies shares lead to the Groups share price growth not matching the UK REITs 14% indexin the year.
2010 2011 2012 FTSE REIT Index Why is this important?
Total financial return This is a measurement of the Uses the movement in Total return in the year total return movement in the adjusted net asset value largely comprises the 20% Groups balance sheet value plusthe impact of dividends dividend paid in the year as through the change inthe paid in the year.
despite an increase in the Groups property valuations Groups property valuations, andits capital structure.
net asset value growth was restricted by exceptional costs.
Income performance The measure gives the Uses underlying earnings Underlying earnings per underlying income pershare, which excludes share fell slightly in the 16.5p 16.1p 15.4p generatedin the year property and derivative yeardue to the impact whichgives an indication valuation movements oftenant administrations ofthe Groups ability to andexceptional income morethan offsetting paydividends.
additional rent from newlettings and lower underlying finance costs.
Prime property assets Measures the capital return Includes the capital growth The quality of the Groups on the Groups property from the Groups properties.
properties was reected 11% assets and compares inanother year of strong thiswith the IPD index, out-performance of the arecognised industry IPDbenchmark.
1.0% 0.6% 5.8% 2010 2011 2012 IPD monthly index retail Data source: Bloomberg.
Uses the Intu share price on 11 January 2011 as the opening value for the 2011 shareholder return being the day on which Simon PropertyGroup announced they had no intention to make armoffer for the Group.
This is consistent with methodology used in 2010.
No peer group comparable data is provided due to the lack of available data on a comparable time period.
Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 21
