Governance continued Leadership Governance structure Role and responsibilities The Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination and Review Committee Chairman Key responsibilities Chairman Key responsibilities Chairman Key responsibilities Rob Rowley Monitoring the integrity Neil Sachdev Setting remuneration policy Patrick Burgess To ensure that the Board is ofnancial statements, for all Executive Directors comprised of individuals Members internal controls and risk Members and the Chairman and Members with an appropriate balance Adle Anderson management process and Louise Patten recommending and Rob Rowley of skills, knowledge and Neil Sachdev reviewing the effectiveness Rob Rowley monitoring the level and Neil Sachdev experience.
Andrew Strang of the internal and external structure of remuneration auditors.
More information Nomination Committee More information More information Report pages 72 and 73.
Audit Committee report Directors remuneration pages 68 to 70. report pages 74 to 88.
Executive Committee CR Committee Chairman Key responsibilities Chairman Key responsibilities David Fischel Considers investment proposals, reviews progress on Patrick Burgess Oversee the management of the Groups Corporate projects and project expenditure in detail and receives Responsibility activities.
Members updates on other business matters.
Has delegated Members Matthew Roberts authority, within limits, to authorise initiatives and David Fischel Number of meetings in 2012 Mike Butterworth expenditure.
Trevor Pereira CR Director Martin Ellis Meets fortnightly Jennifer Sandars More information Hugh Ford CR Manager CR Report pages 51 to 57.
Peter Weir Susan Marsden Capital Projects Committee Chairman Key responsibilities Patrick Burgess Reviews new project and project expenditure in detail and, as appropriate, comments on certain projects for the Members Board.
Has no power to approve proposals or authorise John Whittaker expenditure.
David Fischel Matthew Roberts The Capital Projects Committee is not a formal Mike Butterworth committee of the Board.
Martin Ellis Terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination and Review Committees are available on theCompanys website.
The Board reviewed and updated by the Board and the relevant Board Led by the Chairman, the Boards overarching objectives are Committees.
The internal processes are communicated to all staff toprovide effective leadership to the Group and ensure the and are available at all times on the Groups intranet.
Delegated delivery of long-term sustainable returns for its shareholders.
authority limits apply at all levels of the business and their Itdoes this by setting and implementing strategy, ensuring that application is incorporated into the standard procedures for the its employees are professional, motivated and focused, and execution of all leases, licences, contracts and other relevant establishing a balanced approach to risk within the framework documentation by the Group.
The Board considers that the way in of established controls.
which both the Board and the Group function meets the highest standards of accountability and probity.
Appropriate and effective corporate governance is taken extremely seriously and is intrinsic to all aspects of the Boards activities.
The The Companys approach to corporate responsibility is a key Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders and other element of its overall governance culture.
We have consistently stakeholders for the good conduct of the Companys affairs.
It has demonstrated a strong commitment to high standards of therefore established a governance framework which underpins corporate responsibility, particularly focused on the local the culture of the Group.
This framework consists of committees communities surrounding our shopping centres and details of with specic delegated responsibilities as shown in the diagram our CR activities are set out in the CR review on pages 51 to 57, above, and internal policies, procedures and controls including which we strongly recommend shareholders to read, and on the delegated authority limits which are regularly reported on, Companys website.
64 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Matters reserved for the Board The Chairman & Chief Executive Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Group is The roles of the Chairman, Patrick Burgess, and of the Chief delegated to certain Board Committees, the Executive Directors Executive, David Fischel, are separate and have been dened with the support of the Chief Operating Officer and senior bythe Board.
In summary, the Chairmans responsibilities management.
These delegated powers are supported by include leading the Board, setting its agenda and ensuring its delegated authority limits which are documented and kept effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
He also ensures that the under review by the Board.
Board maintains effective communication with shareholders and management.
The Chief Executives key responsibilities Certain matters have been reserved for decision by the whole include day-to-day management of the Groups operations in Board and a schedule setting out a list of these is reviewed the most effective way possible, implementing the policies and regularly.
These include, but are not limited to: strategies developed by the Board and developing the abilities G Strategy and skills of the Groups personnel to the maximum potential.
G The application of the Board protocol for dealing with Non-Executive Directors related-party matters The Non-Executive Directors bring an external and independent G Dividend policy view to the Boards discussions, providing constructive challenge to executive management when appropriate.
G Major acquisitions and disposals, other capital expenditure andcontrols Biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 60 and61.
G Risk management G Shareholder circulars and other documents required by the The Senior Independent Director listing rules Rob Rowley was appointed as Senior Independent Director inSeptember 2008.
In this role, Rob provides advice and The Board also receives regular reports on the proceedings of additionalsupport andexperience to the Chairman as required, its Committees and considers their recommendations.
It has and isavailable to act as an intermediary for the other been the Boards custom over many years to ensure that major Directorsifnecessary.
Rob Rowley also leads the appraisal of decisions are taken after a reiterative process which involves the Chairmans performance annually in discussion with the examination and review at several levels.
In part, this other Non-Executive Directors, and is available as an additional examination and review process is dealt with by the Board and point of contact for shareholders should they feel that other Committees mentioned below.
communication through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Secretariat or Investor Relations team has Structure of the Board and independence failedor is otherwise inappropriate.
At the year end, the Board comprised the Chairman, Patrick Burgess, two Executive and eight Non-Executive Directors.
Rob Rowley will step down as a Non-Executive Director and as Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director towards the end of 2013 and the announcement of hissuccessor as Senior Independent Director will be made in due course.
Board structure at year end Board independence exc.
Chairman at year end Chairman 1 Executive 2 Executive 2 Non-independent NED 3 NonExecutives Independent NED 5 8 Gender split at year end Length of tenure of NEDs at year end Men 10 0 3 years 6 Women 1 3 6 years 0 6 9 years 2 Over 9 years 0 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 65 Governance continued Alternate Directors John Whittaker and Richard Gordon have appointed Steven Underwood and Raymond Fine respectively as their alternates underthe terms of the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board has generally invited the alternate Directors to attend Boardmeetings.
Board meetings There were four scheduled Board meetings and three additional Board meetings in the year including a Directors Away Day focused on plans and strategy for 2013.
Some of the additional meetings were necessarily convened at short notice to deal with matters arising between scheduled meetings.
At each scheduled meeting, the Executive Directors, Chief Operating Officer and Company Secretary give reports on their key areasof responsibility.
In addition, the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination and Review Committees give an update on the discussions of those Committees, highlighting any areas requiring escalation to, or consideration by, the full Board.
Othermatters for discussion are added to the agenda for scheduled Board meetings, or discussed at additional Board meetings, asrequired.
In addition to routine recurring items including strategy, financial reporting and risk management, key matters discussed by the Board in 2012 were those set out in my introduction on page 63.
The attendance of Directors at all Board and Committee meetings held in 2012 is set out in the table below: Corporate Nomination and Responsibility Audit Remuneration Review Capital Projects Board 1 2 Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee D. P. H. Burgess 7 7 1 1 4 4 3 3 D. A. Fischel 7 7 4 4 3 3 E. M. G. Roberts 7 7 4 4 J. Whittaker 7 7 4 4 J. G. Abel 7 7 R. M. Gordon 6 7 3 I. J. Henderson 3 7 1 1 3 4 1 3 A. J. M. Huntley 7 7 Lady Patten 7 7 6 7 R. O. Rowley 6 7 4 4 7 7 1 1 N. Sachdev 6 7 3 4 7 7 1 1 A. D. Strang 6 7 4 4 1 The Audit Committee normally invites the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director to attend meetings and they attended all four meetings of the Committee in 2012.
2 There were three scheduled meetings, and four additional meetings of the Remuneration Committee in 2012.
The Committee normally invites the Chairman and the Chief Executive to attend the scheduled meetings and they attended all three scheduled meetings in 2012.
3 Retired as a Director and member of the CR Committee on 25 April 2012.
Appointed as a member of the Capital Projects Committee on 2 May 2012.
Communication between Board meetings Directors are kept fully informed of progress on matters between formal meetings by way of regular scheduled updates by conference call, adhoc meetings and other communications on a regular basis.
There are a number of important Committee meetings between Board meetings and these are normally fully attended.
The Chairman and Executive Directors regularly contact the Non-Executive Directors to discuss specic matters, typically of a strategic nature.
There are regular informal meetings with the Non-Executive Directors, and on more than one occasion the Chairman met the Non-Executive Directors during 2012 without the Executive Directors being present.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee, Rob Rowley, holds regular meetings with the Head of Risk and Internal Audit, to monitor and progress matters between scheduled Audit Committee meetings.
Mr Rowley also meets the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director between Board meetings.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Neil Sachdev, holds frequent discussions with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary and our advisers to progress remuneration matters between scheduled Remuneration Committee meetings.
66 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Effectiveness Balance, Composition and Culture The Nomination and Review Committee regularly reviews the balance including skills and experience and composition of the Board to ensure that it operates efficiently.
The Board has therefore determined that candidates for the role of Non-Executive Director should have relevant qualications and experience notably in property, retail, finance and legal, areas that are well represented by the current Non-Executive Directors see biographies on page 61.
The appropriate balance of skills, independence, experience and knowledge does not in itself ensure the efficient operation of a Board.
To this end, the role of the Chairman is essential in creating an environment where the Non-Executive Directors are able to draw on their own experience to constructively challenge the views of the executive management.
The Chairman works closely with the Company Secretary to ensure that all Directors are provided with fully accurate and timely information to facilitate informed discussion at Board meetings.
The Chairman is particularly mindful that the views of all Directors should be taken into consideration and that the range of experience of our Non-Executive Directors must be drawn upon to provide insight and alternative perspectives to aid the Boards decisions on key strategic matters.
The table below shows the balance on the Board between independent and non-independent Directors during 2012: Independent in opinion of Board Non-Independent in opinion of Board David Fischel Executive Director 9 Matthew Roberts Executive Director 9 John Whittaker major shareholder 9 John Abel former Executive Director 9 Richard Gordon major shareholder 9 Andrew Huntley 9 Louise Patten 9 Rob Rowley 9 Neil Sachdev 9 Andrew Strang 9 Total 55 The balance of independent and non-independent Directors on the Board following the AGM when John Abel will step down, and later in the year when Rob Rowley steps down, is illustrated by the following charts which show that the Board will continue to satisfy the independence criteria of the code throughout 2013: Post AGM Post Rob Rowley step down Independent 6 Independent 5 Non-independent 4 Non-independent 4 Time commitment Non-Executive Directors are generally appointed for a three-year period and their continuing service thereafter is subject toreview by the Board.
Their annual time commitment will vary according to their membership of Board Committees and the activities of thebusiness in any given year.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors set out the minimum expectation of preparation forandattendance at all Board meetings, Board Committee meetings where appropriate, ad-hoc meetings and the annual Board Away Day.
Non-Executive Directors are required to confirm on accepting their appointment, and annually following each accounting year end, that they areable to allocate sufficient time to meet the expectations of the role.
The terms of appointment for each of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office, oron written request from the Company Secretary.
Directors conicts of interest The Board has adopted a formal procedure for the identication of conicts under which Directors must notify the Chairman of anypotential conicts.
The Chairman then decides whether a conict exists and recommends its authorisation by the Board where appropriate.
In certain circumstances, the conicted Director may be required to recuse himself from the Boards discussions on amatter in which he or she is conicted.
The Board implemented a new Related Party Protocol for situations where a proposed transaction could be captured by the related party provisions of the Listing Rules or by the Companies Act 2006.
The Protocol was established prior to the Companys transactions with the Peel Group of which John Whittaker is Chairman in early 2012, and any amendment to the Protocol is a matter reserved for the full Board.
The Protocol will be observed fully for any future transactions which involve a related party.
Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 67 Governance continued Audit Committee G The Groups overall approach to monitoring areas of risk G The Companys relationship with the external auditor, including its independence I am pleased to report that the Company has complied in full with the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year and has to a large extent adopted the provisions introduced in the new and revised Code published in September 2012.
It is intended that procedures will be introduced during 2013 to address the additional obligations placed on the Board and Audit Committee by the revised provisions of section C of the Code relating to ensuring the Chairman integrity of the Annual Report and Accounts and we expect Rob Rowley Independent Non-Executive Director to report the successful adoption of such procedures in our 2013 Annual Report.
Members Neil Sachdev Independent Non-Executive Director I am pleased to confirm that the Board has appointed Adle Andrew Strang Independent Non-Executive Director Anderson as a Non-Executive Director and member of the Adle Anderson Independent Non-Executive Director Audit Committee.
Adle will succeed me as Chairman of the Audit Committee when I step down later this year and I look Number of meetings in 2012 Four forward to working with her to ensure a smooth and effective Key responsibilities handover of responsibilities.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing: G The integrity of the financial statements, including a review of the significant financial reporting judgements and The Boar d considers that Rob Rowley, as a qualied accountant with accounting policies considerable experience of chairing audit committees, has significant recent and relevant financial experience, as required by the UK G The effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk Corporate Governance Code.
The Board also considers that Adle management Anderson, ACA, also has significant and relevant financial experience.
G The effectiveness of the internal audit function, including Adl e Anderson was appointed as a member of the Committee the work programme undertaken by the function on22February 2013 and will take up the role of Chairman of the Committee when Rob Rowley steps down towards the end of the year.
G The Groups policy on whistleblowing Accountability Responsibilities External auditor In addition to its key responsibilities, the Audit Committee also The Audit Committee has assessed the effectiveness of the considered the following matters in 2012: external auditor,  LLP, and audit process on thebasisof meetings with finance, internal audit staff and other G The 2012 Internal Audit Plan and Audit Charter SeniorExecutives.
In reviewing the independence of the external G Accounting for exceptional items in the 2012 Annual Report auditor, the Audit Committee considered a number of factors, including the experience and tenure of the external auditor: the G The accounting treatment of specic transactions in the year nature and level of services provided by the external auditor: and including the acquisitions of KGV Docks West and the optionto conrmation from the external auditor that it has remained in acquire land in Malaga, Spain, and the impact of thedemerger of compliance with relevant UK independence standards.
Prozone from Provogue on the Groups Indianinterests The Audit Committee has also considered the new element of G The use of the external auditors for non-audit services provision C. 3.7 of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code that G Strategic options for the Groups IT and communications FTSE 350 companies should put the external contract out to infrastructure tender at least every ten years.
 LLP has been the Companys audit rm since1998 and during this period G Feedback on its participation in a review of the UK Corporate its effectiveness and independence has been annually assessed by Governance Code and in particular Patrick Burgess meeting the Audit Committee which has not considered itnecessary to with the FRC require the rm to tender for the audit work.
Theexternal auditors G The principals of the FRCs discussion paper Cutting Clutter are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group Combating Clutter in Annual Reports and subsidiary audits every five years, and the current audit partner took responsibility for the Group and subsidiary audits from the year ended 31 December 2011.
68 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Having concluded that  LLP Executive Directors theauthority to contract for non-audit remaineffective and independent, the Audit Committee services with the external auditor subject to observing the hasrecommended to the Board that they be reappointed following guidelines: asexternalauditor for the year ended 31 December 2013. a Executive Directors have the authority to commission the TheAudit Committee has noted provision C. 3.7 and has external auditors to undertake non-audit work where this is in concluded that theaudit contract will be put out to tender relation to a specic project with a cost not exceeding the lower atanappropriate timein compliance with the transitional of 50,000 or 15 per cent of the estimated annual level of the arrangements provided forby the FRC.
auditors fees for the time being.
If the cost is likely to exceed the limits mentioned above, the agreement of the Chairman of the Key financial reporting and significant judgements Audit Committee is required before the work is commissioned: During the year the Committee discussed the planning, b when the external auditor is considered for the provision of progressand final conclusions of the external audit non-audit work, the Executive Directors must consider whether process.
Theaudit plan was reviewed and approved at the the proposed arrangements will maintain audit independence: May2012 committee meeting.
The significant risks areas identied were:investment property valuations: net rental c the external auditor must certify to the Company that it is income: and management override of controls.
These issues acting independently and the Audit Committee or the were discussed by the Committee following nalisation of commissioning Director as applicable must be satisfied that theyear end audit.
such is the case: and The Committee seeks support from the external auditor in d in providing a non-audit service, the external auditor should not: understanding and assessing whether suitable accounting i audit their own work policies have been adopted and whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements.
The main issues ii make management decisions discussed by the Committee in the current year were: iii create a mutuality of interest G For both the interim results at 30 June 2012 and the audited iv nd they have placed themselves in the role of advocate results included in this Report the Committee reviewed and for theCompany.
discussed with management and the auditors the key assumptions and results of the valuation process undertaken Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor for audit and bythe professionally qualied third party valuers non-audit services are included in note 11 on page107 tothe financial statements.
The Company engaged G The Companys going concern reviews with the main areas  LLP to carry out certain non-audit offocus being the Groups debt maturity prole and stress work in 2012 including assurance services in respect of the testing the forecast for reductions in property valuations and Groups 2012 interim report and the provision of audit rental income certicates in relation to head lease calculations.
The above G The accounting treatment adopted for the 300 million safeguards were adhered to when awarding the non-audit work.
2.5percent convertible bond issued in October 2012 Fees paid to  in respect of non-audit work represented 24.2 per cent of the total fees paid.
G The accounting treatment for the demerger of Prozone and the results of an impairment review that was undertaken as The Audit Committee has considered the option of putting the shareprice of the listed shares was below the carrying material non-audit work out to tender.
While recognising that value at 31December 2012.
The review concluded that no thecircumstances of a particular transaction may make it impairment was required at this time inappropriate to use a rm other than the incumbent external auditor for such work for example where the nature of the G The results of an impairment review undertaken by transaction would not allow a new rm sufficient time to management, that resulted in the impairment of the goodwill assimilate the requisite knowledge of the Companys operations arising on the Broadmarsh acquisition in order tocarry out the non-audit work, the Audit Committee G Classication of exceptional items for the purposes of has recommended that non-audit work should be put to tender calculating underlying earnings wherever possible.
G The auditors also reported that no material misstatements Risk management and internal control remain unadjusted in the financial statements The Board has overall responsibility to oversee the Groups system of Following discussions with management both the Committee internal control and to keep its effectiveness under review, as well as and the external auditor agreed with the conclusions reached to determine the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take in and the treatments relating to the above issues adopted in achieving its strategic objectives.
The ongoing risk management these financial statements.
process is described in detail on page27 and is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives Non-audit services and can provide only a reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance The Company has a policy to ensure that the provision of any against material misstatement or loss.
non-audit services by the incumbent external auditor does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
The The Group has a risk and internal audit function which reports to term non-audit services does not include reference to any the Audit Committee.
The risk and internal audit function carries advice on tax.
The Audit Committee has delegated to the out an annual review of internal controls, which includes a Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 69 Governance continued group-wide certication that effective internal controls are in place G Group treasury and are being operated effectively.
The Head of Risk and Internal The Group has a centralised treasury function which reports Audit carries out a programme of verication of the certication tothe Board on a regular basis.
The reports provide details of and reports the resultsto the Audit Committee, which in turn counterparties, interest rate and foreign exchange risks and reports to the Board.
The most significant areas addressed in 2012 derivatives.
Additional information on this subject is given in note were: shopping centre reviews of the Trafford Centre and Eldon 35 on pages 121 to126.
The treasury function also monitors Square, review of joint venture operations, lease system data compliance against covenants set out under various integrity, employee starters and leavers process, and Bribery Act nancingarrangements.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the G Financial controls effectiveness of the risk and internal audit function and in Key controls over major financial risks include reviews against particular ensures that the function remains sufficiently performance indicators and exception reporting.
Members of the independent of the wider business to ensure it can carry out its executive management make regular assessments of their own work effectively.
departments exposure to major financial risks and the extent to Key elements of the Groups internal control system including which these risks are controlled.
These assessments are financial controls are as follows: considered and reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board, and by regular internal audit visits.
G Financial information The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial G Anti-bribery and anti-corruption results to the Board: detailed regular financial reports with In 2011, the Board updated the Groups Business Code of comparisons to prior year historic performance and against Practice, Code of Professional Conduct and Whistleblowing policy budget are provided to the Board.
The Board reviews these for to reinforce the Companys zero tolerance approach to acts of the Group as a whole and takes action when appropriate.
Senior management and other staff received training on the new policies and measures introduced G Financial reporting process asa result of the Bribery Act 2010 and procedures are in place The Group undertakes a detailed financial reporting process on a toensure that new staff are trained where appropriate and quarterly basis.
This process is carried out using the policies and thatrefresher training is provided to relevant staff if necessary.
practices that apply to the control environment on an ongoing basis, TheGroups anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies and and is largely undertaken by the Groups financial reporting team, procedures are reviewed as part of the regular internal audit plan.
which comprises appropriately qualied finance professionals.
Detailed planning is undertaken prior to the period end.
As part of The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness, on the this process, significant business risks and their potential impact on basis of criteria set out in the 2005 Financial Reporting Councils the financial reporting process and results are considered, including internal control guidance for Directors, of systems of internal the effect of any changes in the business activities or accounting financial control and risk management for the year ended standards and matters arising from the underlying information 31December 2012 and has confirmed that there have been no systems.
The preparation of the consolidated financial results material developments affecting their review which have taken involves a number of review stages.
One of these stages includes a place since the year end.
technical accounting review by an internal technical specialist, who Whistleblowing policy has primary responsibility for ensuring that financial accounting The Audit Committee reviews the Groups arrangements by which developments are appropriately dealt with in the Groups financial staff can condentially raise concerns about possible improprieties reporting process.
After various internal review stages, draft financial whether financial or otherwise within the Group.
A condential reports, with narrative commentary on new technical requirements whistleblowing dedicated phone line is available to all staff or issues requiring a significant level of judgement, are prepared for throughout the Group, along with a procedure to record and review and approval by the Audit Committee.
This review stage monitor any incidents of whistleblowing which may occur.
Any involves the Audit Committee discussing the consolidated financial whistleblowing incidents are reported to the Audit Committee.
results and significant judgements with senior management and, There were no whistleblowing incidents during 2012.
The policy where appropriate, the external auditor.
and procedures are being reviewed by the Audit Committee in G Board authority limits early 2013 to ensure that they meet currentbest practice and to The Board has adopted formal authority limits throughout increase staff awareness of the policy and procedures.
theGroup, which are supported by a formal procedure for theexecution of transaction documents overseen by the Going concern Secretariat.
Projects or expenditure with a value in excess The Companys statement on going concern is set out in the of5million are submitted for approval to the Board.
notes to the accounts on page 102.
Therearealso authority limits in place which relate to treasurymanagement.
G Major investments All major investments of the Group, whether inthe ordinary Rob Rowley course of business or of an exceptional nature, are reviewed by at Chairman of the Audit Committee least one Committee and by the Board itself before being authorised and implemented.
27 February 2013 70 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Relations with shareholders Overall approach Intu places considerable emphasis on maintaining an open G Investor conferences: Several investment banks hold andfrank dialogue with investors.
Our programme of investor conferences for investors and companies in the real estate relations activities is based around the financial reporting sector.
They are a good opportunity for the executive team calendar and seeks to: to meet a large number of current and potential investors in a mixture of group and one-to-one meetings and G Develop existing and potential investors understanding informally.
Intuattended seven such conferences in 2012 in ofIntus business strategy, operations, performance and the UK, Europe and the US.
investment case G General meetings: The annual general meeting AGM, G Provide to the Board and executive team an insight into the usually held in May, gives the opportunity for all differing views of Intus shareholders shareholders private and institutional to ask questions of With these objectives in mind, the executive team including, the Board, including the Chairmen of both the Audit and onoccasion, the Chairman met with representatives of over Remuneration Committees.
The entire Board is also 100 investment institutions during 2012 to keep them available to talk to shareholders before and after the informed of our performance and plans, to answer their meeting.
The results of all shareholder votes are announced specic questions and to understand their views.
In addition via the London and Johannesburg stock exchanges and are our website provides to all shareholders a great deal of available on the Companys website.
immediate as well as general information and a feedback G Interaction with sell side analysts: Many investors develop facility.
Regular visits to our properties enable investors to their understanding of the Company partly through see our operations close up.
Intu engages with analysts from around 25 institutions in order to improve the Key components of the investor relations programme accuracy and insight of their research.
The Board is kept G One-on-one meetings with principal shareholders: The informed of analyst commentary and recommendations.
Chairman is available to meet with key investors to answer Alist of the analysts covering Intu can be found at their questions and to better understand their views, intugroup.
co. uk investors  particularly with regard to governance matters.
In addition, analysts during 2012, key shareholders were consulted regarding proposed changes to remuneration policies see page 74.
G Debt investors: Representatives of Intus key relationship banks are invited to the bi-annual results presentations by G Results-related meetings: Institutional shareholders are the executive team and meet periodically with the Finance invited to a presentation with question and answer session Director.
Institutional investors in certain of the Groups by the executive team on the day of announcement of final listed debt are invited to periodic updates on the Groups and interim results.
They can choose to attend in person, by business and performance.
We welcome the moves by phoneor join the webcast.
The Chairman and anumber of some credit side institutional investors towards more the Non-Executives also attend these presentations.
openness regarding holdings of debt instruments and G Road shows: In the few weeks following results roadshow-style one-to-one meetings.
announcements, executive management conduct a series of one-to-one and group meetings with institutional shareholders in the UK, South Africa, Europe and the US, giving the opportunity to meet other fund managers as well as the sectorspecialist of each institution.
Unattributable feedback from these meetings collected by our brokers is provided to the Board.
G Investor and analyst property visits: Institutional shareholders are invited to attend at least one property visit each year with presentations on Intus business.
This gives an opportunity for formal and informal interaction with the executive team and the next tier of operational management.
In 2012, investors visited The Harlequin, Watford, Lakeside and the Trafford Centre tosee recent changes and to hear about significant planned projects.
Such presentations are available for download from the Investors section of our website intugroup.
co. uk Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 71 Governance continued Responsibilities Nomination and Review Committee In addition to its key responsibilities set out above, the Committee is also responsible for carrying out the annual performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors, as well as making recommendations totheBoard on appointments to the Board, including the inductionprogramme for newly appointed Directors, and on successionplanning.
Appointment of new Non-Executive Director During 2012, the Nomination and Review Committee led a search for a new independent Non-Executive Director which resulted in the appointment of Adle Anderson on 22 February 2013.
The Committee established a comprehensive set of criteria and in particular were looking for a candidate with thenecessary skills and financial background to take on the Chairman positionof Audit Committee Chair given Rob Rowley intended Patrick Burgess Chairman of the Board to step down as a Non-Executive Director at the end of 2013.
Members Executivesearch rm Korn Ferry Whitehead Man were engaged Rob Rowley Independent Non-Executive Director to assist with the process and compiled a shortlist consisting Neil Sachdev Independent Non-Executive Director ofboth male and female candidates from a diverse range of backgrounds.
The shortlist was reviewed by the Committee Number of meetings in 2012 One anda number of candidates were recommended for interview.
Key responsibilities The candidates were interviewed by the Committee and by the The principal role of the Nomination and Review majority of other Board members, following which the Board Committee is to evaluate the skills available on the Board unanimously approved the appointment of Adle as being the and to determine when appointments and retirements most suitable candidate given her extensive financial expertise, are appropriate.
as a qualied ACA and former KPMG partner, with significant Following a successful search process in 2012, the relevant Audit Committee experience.
Committee recommended to the full Board the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director and member Diversity of the Audit Committee, Adle Anderson.
It is intended that The Nomination and Review Committee, and the Board, Adle will replace Rob Rowley as Chairman of the Audit recognises the importance of boardroom diversity, not just Committee when he steps down in due course.
gender specic, and the Committees policy is to seek to ensure In 2011, the Committee recommended a reduction in that all available suitable candidates aretaken into account theoverall size of the Board and we continue to when drawing up shortlists of candidates for possible pursuethe goal of a smaller, diverse Board which appointments to theBoard.
However, the priority of the retainsan appropriate balance of skills, experience and Committee and the Board is toensure that the Group continues independence.
At the end of January 2011 the Board to have the strongest and most effective Board possible, and comprised 11 Directors excluding the Chairman and this therefore all appointments to the Board are made on merit number will reduce to 10 Directors following our 2013 against objective criteria.
The Board is supportive of the Davies AGM, and further reduce to 9 Directors when Rob Report recommendations in relation to Board diversity and is Rowleysteps down at the end of the year, unless further pleased to report that there are now two female Non-Executive appointments are made by then.
Succession planning has Directors on the Board.
Female representation on the Board been a key driver of the process, in particular to ensure currently stands at 16.6 per cent: it will be 18 per cent when that the balance of independence on the Board John Abel retires at the 2013 AGM and 20 per cent, if the remainsappropriate, as well as ensuring appropriate composition of the Board remains as it is now, when Rob Rowley andindependent Committee membership.
We will leaves us at the end of the year.
maintain a balance of at least 50 per cent independent Directors throughout 2013, and will have a majority of Female representation is high throughout the Groups senior independent Directors when Rob Rowley steps down.
management ranks, with women occupying 42 per cent of management roles.
With an increased focus within the Group With the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director, onstaff development and training, we are aiming to increase the the Committee has reviewed the induction process set out in detail in the following report to ensure that it remains pipeline of executive women who will have the necessary skills robust and appropriate, and has also considered the and experience to take on Board level roles either at Intu or training requirements of existing Directors during the year.
externally, where practical, in the future.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee have been Succession planning overhauled during the year, to provide, inter alia, that all The Committee regularly reviews the skills and experience of Non-Executive Directors be invited to attend Nomination the Non-Executive members of the Board and their unexpired and Review Committee meetings when the appointment of a new Director is being recommended to the Board.
As stated in the 2011 Corporate Governance Report, Ian Henderson stepped down as a Non-Executive 72 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Director at the 2012 AGM having served for some seven years.
The Board also recognises the need for Directors to keep up to We also noted last year that both Rob Rowley and John Abel date with relevant legislative and regulatory developments as would step down at the 2013 AGM.
It has since been agreed well as changes to corporate governance best practice and asnoted above that Rob will remain on the Board for a period investor expectations.
The Company Secretary reports to each inorder to provide an effective handover of his duties as scheduled Board meeting on these matters, drawing attention Chairman of the Audit Committee to Adle Anderson.
Rob is to any issues ofparticular relevance.
In addition, the Company inhis third three-year term as a Non-Executive Director and Secretary maintains an up-to-date comprehensive schedule iscurrently the longest serving Non-Executive Director on summarising legislative and regulatory developments relevant ourBoard.
Rob is also the Senior Independent Director and to theCompany and rated according to risk impact on the theannouncement of his successor in that role will be made Group, which is included with regular Board papers.
Performance evaluation In accordance with the Committees previously stated aim of Every year, the Board conducts an evaluation of its own reducing the overall size of the Board, the Board will not replace performance and of the performance of the Chairman and John Abel.
In addition, the Chairman reviews As Neil Sachdev will be entering his third three-year term as a the performance of each individual director and the Senior Non-Executive Director following the AGM in May 2013, assuming Independent Director oversees the review of the Chairmans that he is re-elected, the Committee has conducted arigorous performance.
The 2013 performance evaluation willbe review of his independence and his continuing contribution to the conducted by an external facilitator, as required every threeyears.
The review was conducted with the The internal performance evaluation in 2012 was conducted by other anticipated Board changes in mind, and in particular the way of detailed questionnaires followed by discussion, the relatively short tenure of the remaining Non-Executive Directors.
results of which were considered by the members of the The Committee has determined that Neil Sachdev remains Nomination and Review Committee, the Board, and the relevant robustly independent and continues to make a valuable Board Committees.
contribution to the Board and Committees, andhas concluded thathe should continue in office for a further three-year term.
The responses to the majority of questions relating to the performance of the Board and its Committees, and of the The Nomination and Review Committee believes that the Chairman, were positive and constructive.
A summary of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and outcome of the evaluation exercise is as follows: the Board Committees is satisfactory and is expected to continue to be so following the changes referred to above.
Areas identied as consistently good: G Relationship between the Non-Executive Directors and Renewal of Non-Executive appointments theChairman All Directors, with the exception of John Abel who is stepping G Responses to problems crises down, will submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in May 2013.
Shareholders will also be G Sound systems of internal control asked to elect Adle Anderson to the Board.
G Response of management to requests for information Induction for new Directors Areas identied for further attention in 2013 There is a comprehensive induction programme for new G More frequent Nomination and Review Committee meetings Directors which is tailored by the Chairman, in consultation anda revised composition withthe Chief Executive and Company Secretary, depending onthe type of appointment but includes meetings with Board G Still more frequent communication members, senior management and external advisers as well as G Further measures to improve the Boards cohesiveness ahigh-level review of all current projects, Board strategy and an in-depth review of the Groups assets.
With my colleagues, I will address all of these points during 2013.
An immediate response has been to revise the schedule of Where required, the Company Secretary provides guidance, or Board and Committee meetings in 2013 to include, besides our facilitates the provision of training on Directors individual duties monthly update calls, quarterly meetings for Non-Executive under the Companies Act 2006 and on legal, regulatory and Directors alone, additional Nomination and Review Committee governance matters with which the Company, Board and meetings and, so as to reduce the pressure of business at individual Directors must comply.
individual meetings, an additional Board meeting.
Also the terms of reference of the Nomination and Review Committee Education and development have been revised to take the above into account.
The Chairman, with the assistance of the Nomination and Review Committee, regularly considers the need for existing Directors to update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
In addition, this matter is formally included as part of the annual performance evaluation exercise.
Training is provided for Non-Executive Directors in the form of presentations at Board Patrick Burgess meetings.
In addition seminars and courses are specically Chairman arranged on particular topics of relevance.
27 February 2013 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 73
