Corporate governance This part of the Annual Report, together with the Directors remuneration All Non-executives have confirmed they have sufficient time to meet what report set out on pages 44 to 55, describes how the Company has applied is expected of them.
Copies of their appointment letters are available on and complied with the principles contained in the UK Corporate Governance request to the Company Secretary and will be available for inspection at the Code published in June 2010 the Code.
The Code is published by the AGM.
Under the Articles, Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders Financial Reporting Council and is available from its website www.
at the first AGM after their appointment by the Board and are subject to re-appointment if they have held office for three years or more since their Statement of compliance with the provisions of the previous appointment by shareholders and, in the case of Non-executive Combined Code Directors, if they have held office for nine years or more since first being The Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
In accordance appointed by shareholders.
However, in accordance with the UK Corporate with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company confirms that Governance Code, which recommends that all Directors of FTSE350 throughout the year ended 31 December 2012 and at the date of this Annual companies seek re-election by shareholders on an annual basis, all Directors Report, it was compliant with the provisions of the Code.
currently in office will retire and seek re-election at the AGM.
In addition, Bob Murphy, who was appointed to the Board on 25 June 2012, is seeking election Share capital by shareholders at the 2013 AGM for the first time.
The Board has set out in Details of the share capital of the Company and the powers of the Directors the circular a resolution to elect Bob Murphy as an Executive Director and in relation to allotment, issue and market purchases of shares are given in the explains why it believes he should be elected.
The Chairman confirms to Directors report on page 56. shareholders when proposing election or re-appointment that the individuals performance continues to be effective and that the individual continues to The Board composition demonstrate commitment to the role.
Non-executive Directors are subject The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman John Devaney, a Chief to Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a Director.
Executive Officer Bob Murphy, a Chief Financial Officer Warren Tucker and six other Non-executive Directors of whom Marcus Beresford is the The Chairman is, among other things, responsible for chairing Board Senior Independent Director.
All Non-executive Directors are considered meetings and leading the Board.
The Chief Executive Officers responsibilities to be independent and the Chairman was considered to be independent include operational performance, corporate social responsibility and the on appointment.
They all held office throughout the year except Bob development and implementation of the Groups strategy.
He also focuses Murphy, who joined the Board on 25 June 2012.
Andy Stevens, the former on long-term growth and development of the Group, its people and Chief Executive Officer, retired for medical reasons from this role on 24 June customer relationships.
The Boards policy is that the roles of Chairman 2012.
He continued on the Board, in a non-executive capacity, until 1 August and Chief Executive Officer should be performed by different people.
The 2012 and provided support to the incoming Chief Executive Officer, Bob division of responsibilities between the Chairmans role and that of the Chief Murphy, until the end of his notice period on 1 January 2013.
Marcus Executive Officer is documented and clearly understood.
The Chairman Beresford has completed nine years as a Non-executive Director and will performed an executive role during the first half of the year whilst the search stand down from the Board and as Senior Independent Director at the for the new Chief Executive Officer was underway but reverted to his conclusion of the Annual General Meeting AGM on 25 April 2013.
Warren Non-executive role on the appointment of Bob Murphy.
Tucker will stand down as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director following the AGM.
Simon Nicholls, currently Group Finance Director of The Senior Independent Directors responsibilities include the provision Senior plc, has been appointed as Warren Tuckers successor and will of an additional channel of communication between the Chairman and commence in role and join the Board on 1 May 2013. the Non-executive Directors.
He also provides another point of contact for shareholders if they have concerns which communication through Biographies of the Directors, giving details of their experience and other the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial significant commitments, are set out on page 35.
The wide ranging Officer has failed to resolve, or where these contacts are inappropriate.
experience and backgrounds of the Non-executive Directors enable them to debate and constructively challenge management in relation to both the As noted above, Marcus Beresford will stand down as Non-executive Director development of strategy and the performance of the Group.
The attendance and Senior Independent Director at the conclusion of the AGM.
The role of Directors at Board meetings are set out on page 34 and attendance at of Senior Independent Director will be assumed by Michael Wareing principal Board committee meetings as members of such committees during following Marcus retirement.
The search process for a new Non-executive the year are set out in the reports from each committee on pages 40, 42 Director has been started and Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann have been and 44. appointed to provide details of suitable candidates for the role.
Korn Ferry have signed up to the Voluntary Code for executive search firms and provide Non-executive Directors are appointed for specified terms of three years no other services to us other than recruitment consultants.
We will ensure which can be extended by agreement provided that the individuals that Korn Ferry supply a suitable number of candidates from diverse performance continues to be effective.
The rules for the appointment and backgrounds to complement the Boards existing skills and experience.
replacement of Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by contacting the Company Secretary.
Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders passing a special resolution.
The Directors and the Company in the latter case by ordinary resolution may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
36 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information The Board and its proceedings Role and focus The Boards main duties are to: Lead the Group with a view to the creation of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
Review and agree Group strategy.
Ensure that the necessary resources are in place.
Supervise the conduct of the Groups activities within a framework of prudent and effective internal controls.
Highlights of 2012 Comments from the Chairman The Board and senior management participated in two separate meetings A key focus during 2012 has been search, selection and induction into devoted to the consideration and development of the Groups strategy.
the business of a new Chief Executive Officer.
The US defence security Acquisition of the Thrane & Thrane group of companies.
market remains highly uncertain and we are planning for a period of declining, Overseen the negotiation of new banking facilities.
then flat budgets, consistent with previous down cycles.
Therefore, it was Overseen the search and appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer.
important the Group found the right successor to Andy Stevens to continue Evaluated and approved seven large bid submissions above authority limits the strategic journey and to bring strength and leadership for the future.
delegated to the Executive Directors.
Completed externally facilitated Board Evaluation.
J Devaney Priorities for 2013 Review performance against agreed strategic enablers.
Continued focus on market evaluation and strategic development.
Continued rebalance of the portfolio towards the commercial market.
Board meetings, scheduled in accordance with the annual timetable, take on corporate governance matters.
The Company Secretary is appointed, place six times a year on a face to face basis, five times a year by telephone and can only be removed, by the Board.
There is contact between meetings to progress the Groups business as required.
Meetings were held at the head office If a Director were to have a concern which cannot be resolved this would be in Wimborne, at the Companys London office and at an international recorded in the Board minutes.
On resignation, Non-executive Directors are operational location.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director held a invited to provide a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the meeting with the Non-executives in the absence of the Chairman to appraise Board if they have concerns.
No such statements were made during 2012. the Chairmans performance.
The Chairman has held meetings with the Non-executives in the absence of the Executive Directors.
All potential situational and transactional conflicts of interest are disclosed, noted and authorised.
Procedures are in place and operating effectively to The Boards role is to lead the Group with a view to the creation of strong, keep such disclosures up to date.
sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
Performance evaluation The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its specific The Board conducts an evaluation of its activities on an annual basis.
The schedule provides the framework for those decisions which During 2012, the Board and its committees undertook an external can be made by the Board and those which can be delegated either to evaluation, conducted by Institute of Chartered Secretaries and committees or otherwise.
Among the key matters on which the Board alone Administrators consultants.
The evaluation included the circulation may make decisions are the Groups business strategy, its five year plan, its of a questionnaire to stimulate thinking prior to an interview with the consolidated budget, Group policies, dividends, acquisitions and disposals, external assessors.
The performance of individual Board members was and all appointments to and removals from the Board.
Authority is delegated evaluated as part of this process.
The Board considered the output and to management on a structured basis in accordance with the provisions of has approved an action plan to address issues arising.
the Corporate Framework ensuring that proper management oversight exists at the appropriate level.
Matters delegated in this way include, within defined A table of actions instigated by this and the previous performance evaluation parameters, the approval of bids and contracts, capital expenditures and is included below.
The Board has adopted procedures relating to the conduct of its business, including the timely provision of information, and the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that these are observed and for advising the Board Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37 Corporate governance continued Board and Committees performance evaluation Evaluation Year Observations Actions Taken 2011 Devote time, as part of the Nomination Committee's review, The appointment of the new Chief Executive Officer was led by the Chairman, taking to discuss the profile of the individual required for new Board into account the profile discussed with the Nomination Committee and specifically members before each appointment.
ensuring the appointee is the right individual to take forward the Group Strategic Plan.
Bob Murphy joined the Group on 25 June 2012.
Establish a plan to bring in new talent for key posts, ensuring Talent and succession planning will continue to be a Board focus during 2012 and talent and succession planning are driven forward.
Various actions in relation to talent and succession planning are underway.
The people section of the Directors report at page 58 contains further details.
Increase the frequency of discussions at the Board on market The Board implemented new reporting and quarterly strategic updates during 2012. positioning, on technology assets, and on implementation of the Group Strategic Plan.
2012 The risk management process needs to be strengthened The Risk Committee will be strengthened during 2013 with the membership with clear delineation between the work of the Risk and expanded to include the Group Executive.
Greater focus will be placed on the Audit Committees and the Board.
risk identification process and the risk appetite.
More rigour should be placed around paper compilation The substance of reports will be improved and a standard reporting format adopted, and submission.
introducing a more timely and efficient process.
Senior management objectives need to be visible to Objectives for the Group Executive will be presented to the Board for review.
the Board to support talent and succession planning.
Opportunities for the Board to meet the members of the Cobham high potential programme will be pursued.
Financial reporting The Non-executive Chairman and the Senior Independent Director In the Directors view, the Annual Report and Accounts for 2012, together are available to meet with major shareholders.
The Chairman of the with the interim management statements, the interim report and other Remuneration Committee has consulted with major shareholders twice reports made during the year, present a balanced and understandable during the year with regards to executive remuneration arrangements.
assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Presentations were given on the day of the announcement of the interim The Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the and preliminary results.
The presentations are accompanied by a live webcast Annual Report and Accounts as stated in the Financial review on page 29. for shareholders unable to attend in person.
Copies of the associated presentation materials, together with webcasts, can be accessed at Shareholder relations www.
Presentations are conducted in accordance A full programme of engagement with investors and analysts, both in the with the FSAs Disclosure Rules on the dissemination of inside information.
United Kingdom and overseas, is undertaken each year by the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Director of Investor Relations, including The Board receives a report from the Chief Financial Officer at each of its presentations, roadshows and site visits.
Site visits are hosted by senior meetings on investor relations generally, including significant changes to members of management within the business units and are intended to shareholdings, meetings with and feedback from shareholders and research give investors detailed insight and access to the business operations.
A formal presentation to the Board is given once per year by the Director of Investor Relations, including an overview of The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities shareholder sentiment.
of the Group and engages in regular dialogue with them.
During the year the Chairman, while acting in an executive capacity, the Chief Executive Officer Communication with shareholders also takes place via RNS announcements, and the Chief Financial Officer held regular meetings with shareholders to the Groups website, the Annual Report, the interim management statements discuss information made public by the Group.
A wide range of business and at the AGM.
The AGM is attended by all Directors and shareholders have and corporate governance topics were discussed with institutional investors the opportunity to question the Board on its stewardship of the Group and during the year as part of the investor relations programme.
These included to meet the Directors informally.
The results of the votes on the resolutions Cobhams overall performance, the Groups markets, progress on the Groups proposed at the AGM are published on the Groups website at Excellence in Delivery programme, changes in senior management and www.
cash deployment including dividends, share buy-backs and mergers and acquisitions.
Responsibility statements Statements relating to the responsibilities of the Directors are on page 60 and those relating to the auditors are on pages 61 and 113.
38 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Principal Board Management Committees Committees Summary of 2012 Investor Relations activity Preliminary Interim Interim Interim 2011 Results management 2012 management statement Results statement Webcast & Interactive Conference Conference Webcast & Call Call Conference Call Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Investors Conferences Investors Investors Conferences Conferences Site Visits Site Visits Site Visits Investor Meetings Investor Meetings Interim management statement is a short quarterly update on the Group's trading, significant events and financial position.
Board committees The Board is supported in its work by a number of committees.
The Company Chief Executive Officer in the performance of his duties and its terms of Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees.
Committee chairmen reference include establishing and implementing internal policies, systems provide oral reports on the work undertaken by their committees at the and controls to ensure that potential inside information is communicated following Board meeting.
Information relating to the Nomination and to it, considered, verified and released to the market where required, Audit Committees appears below and the activities of the Remuneration the discharge of obligations arising under the Companys share plans, Committee are described in the Directors remuneration report on pages the determination of the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors, 44 to 55.
All Board committees are provided with sufficient resources the approval of banking facilities and the approval of bids and contracts.
This Committee met on 24 occasions during the year and, in addition, as required to respond to business needs and market conditions.
The other principal Board committee is the Executive Directors Committee.
The Executive Directors are members of this Committee under the The Group Executive Committee and the other principal management chairmanship of the Chief Executive Officer.
The purpose is to assist the committees are shown in the table below.
Board of Directors Audit Nomination Remuneration Executive Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee The Board is ultimately responsible Group Executive incorporating the Risk Committee for corporate governance and the Groups system of internal control, with day to day responsibility resting with management.
Contract Bid Investment Corporate Business Internal Audit Talent Safety, Health Approval Committee Responsibility Ethics Committee Board & Environment Committee & Sustainability & Compliance Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39 Corporate governance continued Nomination Committee Membership and attendance Number held 2 Number attended J Devaney Chairman 2 M Beresford 2 J Patterson 2 M Ronald 2 M Hagee 2 M Wareing 2 A Wood 2 Comments from the Chairman A key focus during 2012 has been the appointment of a new Chief Executive Other attendees Officer and the search and recruitment of a new Chief Financial Officer.
Chief Executive Officer Both of these appointments were managed in conjunction with Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann, recruitment consultants who have signed up to the voluntary Code of Conduct for executive search firms.
Korn Ferry provided Role and focus a short list of candidates for the Chief Executive Officer role who were The Nomination Committees main duties are to: interviewed by myself and separately by Mike Wareing, John Patterson and Review the structure, size and composition of the Board.
Marcus Beresford before meeting the current Executive Directors and being Consider succession planning for Directors and other senior executives.
offered the Chief Executive Officer role.
Highlights of 2012 The same process was followed for the recruitment later in the year of the Evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board.
Chief Financial Officer, except that the new Chief Executive Officer was also Considered external appointments to subsidiary Boards.
very involved in the process.
Simon Nicholls will take over the role of Chief Considered succession planning to ensure the Group is well positioned Financial Officer on 1 May 2013. for the future.
Conducted a thorough and comprehensive search for a new Following an extensive review of the Groups strategic direction, a fresh Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
look at talent and succession further down the management chain is Conducted an effectiveness review.
Priorities for 2013 Non-executive Director search and recruitment process underway J Devaney to replace Marcus Beresford and John Patterson.
John plans to retire at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
40 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information The Committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during the year, Board succession planning are available on the Companys website at www.
com or on application to the Company Secretary.
J Devaney The Committee is cognisant of the need for diversity when considering M Beresford the composition of the Board.
Measurable targets have been set around: Ensuring a proportion of female applicants are included in the candidate J Patterson pool for Non-executive Director positions.
The next Non-executive Director appointed should have a more diverse M Ronald geographical background and commercial market experience, if possible.
M Hagee Elsewhere in the business, the objective is to appoint the best person for the job taking into account not only gender but nationality, age and experience.
M Wareing The current Board composition, in relation to the Non-executive Directors, as of 31 December 2012, is set out in the table below identifying the skills A Wood and experience of the Board members.
2003 2006 2009 2012 2015 2018 2021 Directors professional development On appointment, Directors undertake a structured induction programme 1st term 2nd term 3rd term in the course of which they receive information about the operations and activities of the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for Succession planning its decision, the Groups corporate governance practices and procedures Succession planning takes place at Board and senior management level on and their duties, responsibilities and obligations as Directors of a listed public a regular basis to ensure that the Group is managed by executives with the limited company.
This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings necessary skills, experience and knowledge.
The Board has a role to play with, and presentations by, senior executives.
in overseeing the development of management resources in the Group.
Specifically, the Board wants to see depth and quality in management Training for Directors is available as required and is provided mainly by means and robust processes are in place to help the Board in this task.
of external courses, internal computer based training, briefing from specific consultants or in-house presentations.
In addition, Directors knowledge Succession planning for Non-executive Directors is based on maintaining of the legal and regulatory environment is updated through the provision a depth of knowledge and experience on the Board.
The Nomination of information by the Groups advisers and by means of regular updates Committee actively manages Non-executive Director succession having from the Company Secretary and the legal team.
regard to anticipated retirement dates for existing Directors and initiates focused searches for Non-executive Directors as positions are required.
The current Board composition in relation to the Non-executive Directors, as of 31 December 2012, in terms of length of service and current term is shown diagrammatically above.
Years with Independence Cobham Skills Experience UK Corporate Leadership Strategy Governance Corporate Engineering Defence Finance US market UK listings HR John Devaney 2 Bob Murphy 0 Warren Tucker 10 Marcus Beresford 3 9 John Patterson 3 7 Michael Wareing 3 2 Mark Ronald 3 6 Mike Hagee 3 4 Alison Wood 3 1 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41 Corporate governance continued Audit Committee Role and focus The Audit Committees main duties are to: Monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal announcements relating to its financial performance, reviewing accounting policies used and judgements applied.
Consider the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
Consider the effectiveness of the Groups risk management procedures.
Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit activities.
Make recommendations as to the appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors.
Comments from the Chairman Monitor and review the external auditors independence and objectivity It is the Groups goal to implement best practice in financial accounting and and the effectiveness of the audit process.
This has been a priority of the Committee throughout the year Review arrangements by which the Groups employees may confidentially and will continue to be so in future.
We have taken measures throughout the raise concerns about possible improprieties.
year to ensure that sound policies on internal controls are in place, to ensure the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors, and to ensure Highlights of 2012 the appropriate risk mitigation framework is in place throughout the Group.
Reviewed the effectiveness of risk management and internal controls with the external auditors and the Head of Internal Audit.
M Wareing Reviewed reports from the external auditors and the Head of Internal Audit.
Considered reports on a number of matters including pension scheme, treasury and funding plans, taxation, disaster recovery planning and corporate governance issues.
Membership and attendance Reviewed internal controls operating within the Group and specifically controls in relation to the Excellence in Delivery programme and IT.
Number held 3 Conducted an effectiveness review of the Committee and the internal Number attended and external auditors.
The Group has an anti-bribery, anti-corruption policy and arrangements M Wareing Chairman 3 for handling whistle-blowing and the Committee regularly receives and M Beresford 3 1 considers reports on calls made to the helpline.
J Patterson 2 Monitored and contributed to the debate on external audit tendering M Hagee 3 rotation led by the UK Financial Reporting Council FRC and the 1 John Patterson, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, left the Audit Committee on European Union EU.
Considered the impact on the Group.
1 December 2012 on the introduction of parallel running of Board committee meetings.
Reviewed financial reporting controls and significant accounting judgements.
Other attendees by invitation Chief Financial Officer Priorities for 2013 Head of Internal Audit Consider how to adapt procedures to provide advice to the Board Group Director of Financial Control on whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair,  LLP balanced and understandable and provides all information necessary Other senior management as required to a shareholder to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Meetings with the Committee are held in the absence of any executive management Continued oversight of the impact of the economic downturn periodically during the year Meetings with the CFO are held with Committee members only on the financial position of the Group.
Prepare for the implementation of the final requirements arising for the tendering of the external audit.
42 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Risk management and internal controls The Committee believes that the current arrangements comprising a The Board receives reports on a regular basis from the Audit Committee in rotational programme of internal financial and other control reviews by relation to the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and the internal audit function, other experienced internal teams, external has, accordingly, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal experts and business reviews carried out by the Chief Executive Officer control in respect of 2012.
The review covered all material controls, including and Chief Financial Officer and a process of self-assessment of internal financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
financial controls by all business units provides appropriate coverage of the Groups activities.
Where weaknesses have been identified, plans for Financial reporting and significant financial judgements remedying them are developed and progress monitored.
The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted, whether management has made appropriate estimates The Group operates under a system of internal controls which has been and judgements and also seeks support from the external auditors developed and refined over time to meet its needs and the risks and to assess them.
opportunities to which it is exposed.
This includes a strategic planning process involving the preparation of a five year plan, a comprehensive The Committee reviewed the following main issues below for the year budgeting system with an annual budget which is approved by the Board, ended 31 December 2012: the regular revision of financial forecasts for the year, the monitoring of The provisions held and settlements made relating to litigation disputes and financial performance and the appropriate delegation of authorities to potential significant contract liability and considered the judgements made operational management.
Delegations and other operational controls are by management.
The Committee was satisfied that these were reasonable contained in the Corporate Framework and the Group Finance Manual.
and appropriate, and that the disclosures made were appropriate.
Specifically with regard to the financial reporting process and the The accounting for acquisitions made during the year, the carrying value preparation of the Group financial statements, the system includes of businesses held for sale and certain tax provisions.
The Committee was an annual and semi-annual representation letter from all business units.
satisfied these were reasonable and appropriate.
Included in those letters are written acknowledgements that financial The accounting for longer term contracts.
The Committee considered reporting is based upon reliable data and that the results are properly that the accounting was reasonable and appropriate.
stated in accordance with Group policies.
The review and monitoring The Committee considered the carrying value of intangible assets and of the effectiveness of the internal controls including, but not limited potential impairments and was satisfied that no provisions were required to, financial controls and the Groups financial and operational risk and that disclosures were reasonable and appropriate.
management systems is delegated to the Audit Committee.
External auditors Risk management is an integral part of the system of internal control.
The Committee and the external auditors have safeguards to avoid the Divisional Presidents are required to ensure that appropriate processes, possible compromise of the auditors objectivity and independence.
These including the maintenance of business unit and divisional risk registers, include the adoption by the Committee of a policy regarding the supply of exist to identify and manage risks and to regularly carry out formal risk audit and non-audit services and of a policy on the employment of external assessments.
The executive Risk Committee undertakes a top level review audit staff.
Non-audit services, as defined from time to time in the policy, of significant risks and the Chief Executive Officer reports regularly to the can be provided subject to pre-approval by the Committee where the cost Board on their mitigation.
of any individual engagement exceeds a pre-defined limit.
The Committee has received reports from the external auditors confirming their The latest principal risks and the risk management process are highlighted independence and objectivity.
As noted above, the Committee has monitored and contributed The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control, the aim to the current FRC and EU proposals and have reviewed and updated of which is to manage risks that are significant to the fulfilment of the Groups the Committees terms of reference in order to reflect certain of them business objectives and to contribute to the safeguarding of shareholders in advance of them becoming mandatory.
investment and the Groups assets.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the system.
However, such The external auditors follow regulatory requirements, which stipulate a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to in relation to the senior engagement auditor, a five year rotation policy.
achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not The current audit partner was appointed in early 2009.
The Committee has absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors and has recommended that a resolution be proposed at the AGM to re-appoint the external auditors The Audit Committee reviews the risk management procedures annually and and to allow the Board to set their remuneration.
The Committee is satisfied the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating that the external auditors remain independent.
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process, which has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the The nature of services received from and fees paid to the external auditors Annual Report and Accounts, is reviewed in accordance with the Internal during the year include tax compliance and advisory services and are set out Control, Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the in note 2 to the Group financial statements.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43
