Corporate governance Introductory letter to the Corporate Governance Report from the Chairman of the Board Land Securities Group PLC 5 Strand London WC2N 5AF Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to report that your Company has again complied in full with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
As a Board, we pride ourselves on high standards of corporate governance.
It is at the heart of everything we do.
We monitor developments and trends in corporate governance both in the UK and internationally, adopting any emerging practice we feel would improve our governance whether or not it becomes mandatory.
We engage regularly with our shareholders and welcome their feedback on our approach to governance and their statements of policy in terms of what they expect.
This feeds into our reviews of governance and has led to us adopting many changes well ahead of them becoming requirements.
A key aspect for ensuring your Boards effectiveness is our annual Board and Committee evaluation process.
We have just completed the third year of our three year Board evaluation cycle and took the opportunity to focus on Board skills and contributions, papers provided to the Board, risk appetite and the outlook for 2012.
Our next evaluation will be conducted with the assistance of a leading independent rm to ensure that our evaluation remains comprehensive and rigorous.
The Board Committees have had an active year.
The Nominations Committee led the appointment process for our new Chief Executive, Robert Noel, and our new Non-executive Director, Stacey Rauch.
The Remuneration Committee oversaw the design of a new remuneration structure for Executive Directors pay to reect the new management structure implemented following the appointment of our new Chief Executive.
The Audit Committee has had to deal with a risk environment that changed dramatically with the eurozone crisis midway through our year.
You will nd more details of the work of the Committees and an overview from each of the Chairmen in this report.
On the following pages we describe our corporate governance framework in more detail.
We have re-organised our report so that its structure reects the sections of the UK Corporate Governance Code to make it easier for shareholders to assess our performance against the main principles.
Alison Carnwath Chairman 70 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance Leadership THE ROLE OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES CHART 51 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Audit Committee Land Securities is committed to delivering high standards of corporate governance The Audit Committees primary function is to assist the Board in fullling its and is pleased to report that it has complied fully with the UK Corporate oversight responsibilities.
During the year the Committee met four times and Governance Code for the whole of the year under review.
reviewed the following: In our Corporate Governance report, we explain how we integrate the main interim results and the annual financial statements: principles of the five sections of the UK Corporate Governance Code into our the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and risk business, these being: Leadership: Effectiveness: Accountability: Remuneration: and management: Relations with Shareholders Investors.
Our principles and policy in relation to leasing and market cyclicality risks and mitigation: remuneration are covered separately in our Remuneration Report on p8299.
full and half year valuations and the external valuation process: and the performance of the external auditors, their terms of engagement, the scope of the audit and audit findings including findings on key judgements and The Board estimates in the financial statements.
The Board provides leadership to the Group.
It sets the Groups strategy, oversees its implementation, ensuring that only acceptable risks are taken and the right Further information on the work of the Committee during the year can be found people and resources are in place in order to deliver long term value to shareholders later in this section.
and benets to the wider community.
To help retain control of key decisions, the Board has put in place a formal Nominations Committee schedule of reserved matters which require its approval.
The principal matters reserved to the Board are: The Nominations Committee met three times during the year and its strategy: activities included: authorisation of significant transactions and all those in excess of 150m: recommending the appointments of Robert Noel as Chief Executive and Stacey internal controls and risk management: Rauch as Non-executive Director to the Board: remuneration policy through the Remuneration Committee : monitoring the Boards structure, size, composition and diversity to achieve a shareholder circulars and listing particulars: balanced and effective Board in terms of skills, knowledge and experience: matters relating to share capital, such as share buybacks: reviewing the leadership needs and succession planning of the Group including treasury policy and significant fundraising: identifying and developing talent: dividend policy: and undertaking a rigorous review of the independence of Sir Stuart Rose and David appointment removal of Directors and the Company Secretary.
Rough who complete 9 and 10 years of service on the Board, respectively, in the coming year: Matters delegated to certain Board Committees and management are supported recommending the appointment of Kevin OByrne to the role of Senior by clearly dened written limits.
The Board retains responsibility for all such Independent Director and changes in the membership of the Board matters delegated.
Committees: and A copy of reserved matters is available to view on the Corporate Governance approving the appointment of Richard Akers as a Non-executive Director at section of the Companys website, www.
com about-us corporateBarratt Developments PLC and re-assessing potential conicts of interest of governance role-of-the-board.
Further information on the work of the Committee during the year can be found later in this section.
Land Securities Annual Report 2012 71 Corporate governance Remuneration Committee Investment Committee The Remuneration Committee met four times during the year and its activities The Investment Committee meets weekly and is comprised of the Groups included: Executive Directors and is responsible for approving acquisitions, disposals, determining the individual remuneration packages for Executive Directors and developments and other transactions with a value between 20 million and Senior Managers including the new Chief Executive and determining the 150 million.
appropriate remuneration for the outgoing Chief Executive: designing proposals to change the structure of Executive Director remuneration Senior Management Board in response to the new executive structure and presenting them to the full Board The Senior Management Board is made up of the Groups Executive Directors and is for consideration: attended by the Groups General Counsel and Company Secretary.
It meets weekly approving the targets and performance assessments for performance-related with other senior executives to discuss operational matters.
incentive schemes: and ove rseeing the operation of all incentive schemes and awards and determining BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS TABLE 52 whether the performance criteria had been met.
The number of principal Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the 1 Further information on the work of the Committee during the year can be found in financial year was as follows : Nominations Remuneration Audit the Remuneration Report.
Board Committee Committee Committee Alison Carnwath 9 9 3 3 4 4 Corporate Responsibility Committee Francis Salway 9 9 The Corporate Responsibility CR Committee reports to the Chief Executive and is Martin Greenslade 9 9 chaired by the Groups Tax and Treasury Director.
The Committee meets every two Robert Noel 9 9 months and is responsible for: Richard Akers 9 9 dening strategic priorities in CR: Sir Stuart Rose 9 9 3 3 4 4 monitoring CR performance: and Kevin OByrne 9 9 3 3 ensuring that CR activities remain directly related to our business objectives.
2 Chris Bartram 9 9 3 3 2 3 David Rough 9 9 3 3 4 4 3 3 Our Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 is available at 3 Simon Palley 8 9 4 4 www.
Actual attendance maximum number of meetings a Director could attend as a Board Committee member.
C hris Bartram was unable to attend one meeting of the Audit Committee as he was required to attend another engagement arranged prior to him joining the Board.
The Finance Committee is comprised of the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial 3.
Simon Palley was unable to attend one Board Meeting due to illness.
officer and David Rough, a Non-executive Director, and met three times during the year.
The Committee is responsible for considering the Groups funding and Board composition and roles reviewing certain funding activities including the approval of all new debt facilities.
Our Board comprises the Chairman, three Executive Directors and six independent Asset and Liability Committee Non-executive Directors.
The Chairman and Chief Executives key responsibilities are summarised below: The Asset & Liability Committee members include all of the Executive Directors As Chairman, Alison Carnwath is responsible for leading the Board, its and the Groups Tax and Treasury Director and met three times during the year.
She sets the tone for the Company, and ensures The Committee is responsible for reviewing: the links between the Board and management and the Board with shareholders the external environment the economy, financial markets and the are strong.
property market: During the year to 31 March 2012, as Chief Executive, Francis Salway was funding in the context of the Groups requirements: responsible for the day to day management of the Groups operations, the forecast impact of transactions on the Groups balance sheet: reporting to the Board.
Robert Noel assumed the role from 1 April 2012. balance sheet gearing ratios and balance sheet resilience: and liquidity analysis, development and pre-development exposure.
As at 1 April 2012, the composition of the Board was: In addition to these Committees our Investment Committee and Senior Management Board met to consider operational matters and SPLIT OF DIRECTORS CHART 53 significant transactions.
Chairman 10.0% Executive Directors 30.0% Non-executive Directors 60.0% 72 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance Group Strategy BOARD GENDER SPLIT CHART 54 Strategy is the focus for discussion at Board meetings.
Our strategy is to focus on our two core UK commercial property markets, London and Retail, and provide an attractive total return for our shareholders by being at the forefront of meeting the space requirements of our customers.
We Women 20.0% have a clear plan for every asset and allocate capital to exploit our skills and opportunities through the cycle.
Men 80.0% Reviewing Strategy During the year the Board analysed the prospects for the economy, central London ofce, retail and residential markets, and retail property within the UK to ensure the Groups strategy was appropriate for the current climate and longer term.
LENGTH OF TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CHART 55 Objectives supporting our Strategy 0-3 years 50.0% The Board monitored progress against the objectives supporting the Groups strategy by reviewing: 4-6 years 16.0% the Groups five year forecast and budget the annual business plan 7-9 years 17.0% balanced scorecards which covered a number of non-financial measures.
Over 9 years 17.0% Monitoring the execution of Strategy The Board received detailed Board reports in advance of each meeting which included: updates on business performance Kevin OByrne replaced David Rough as Senior Independent Director SID on progress against the Groups key business targets 1 April 2012.
For the year under review, David Rough was available to discuss any the half-yearly and annual results concerns with shareholders that could not be resolved through the normal review of market sectors channels of communication with the Chairman or Chief Executive.
No such progress on the Groups principal developments concerns were raised.
a si x-monthly comparison of investment property performance to IPD indices review of gearing and the Groups balance sheet.
Board Agenda During the year, nine principal Board meetings were held with the Board also Embedding Strategy meeting regularly at dinners, company events and on an ad hoc basis.
Individual The Board monitored and reviewed the following areas to ensure the strategy Non-executive Directors also met with Executive Directors and senior was embedded through the organisation: management on a number of occasions.
remuneration At every meeting, each Executive Director gave a report on his particular investor relations activities area of responsibility within the business, which were primarily: human resources corporate governance Francis Salway Chief Executive Martin Greenslade Chief Financial risk management and internal controls Overview of the Groups business officer health and safety performance Overview of the Groups financial environmental performance Progress with the Groups key performance Board performance evaluation business targets The Groups Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility matters.
Human resources The Groups five year forecast and Investor relations budget The Chairman regularly held meetings with the Non-executive Directors Funding without the Executive Directors present.
These meetings usually occurred after Board meetings.
Robert Noel Executive Director Richard Akers Executive Director Operational performance of the Operational performance of the London Portfolio Retail Portfolio Trends in the London property Trends in retail markets market Health & Safety Environment Valuation Corporate Responsibility Land Securities Annual Report 2012 73 Corporate governance Letter from the Nominations Committee Land Securities Group PLC 5 Strand London WC2N 5AF Dear Shareholder, This has been one of the most significant years for the Committee for some time.
During the year, the Nominations Committee comprised myself, David Rough, Sir Stuart Rose and Chris Bartram.
We met three times, with all of the members attending all of the meetings.
Early in the year, Francis Salway approached me and indicated that he wished to step down as Chief Executive during the course of 2012.
I informed members of the Committee immediately and we agreed a strategy for appointing his replacement.
This included appointing a leading executive search rm who produced a shortlist of internal and external candidates based on a description of the role prepared by the Committee.
The leading candidate was the Managing Director of our London Portfolio, Robert Noel.
Robert met, separately, with all members of the Committee and with our retained search consultant for in depth interviews.
The search rm also prepared a comprehensive report benchmarking Robert against other candidates and recommending his appointment.
The Committee agreed with the recommendation unanimously.
Robert has demonstrated exemplary leadership in the London business which he has headed since joining Land Securities in 2010, and prior to that had a solid track record in the property industry as Property Director at Great Portland Estates.
He brings a wealth of knowledge to his new role and the Committee is satisfied that he has the requisite skills and experience to lead Land Securities as Chief Executive.
The Committee engaged another leading international search rm to assist with the search for an additional Non-executive Director with a strong international retail background.
A number of candidates were interviewed.
Once we identied Stacey Rauch as our preferred choice, we arranged for her to have separate meetings with each member of the Board.
The Board was unanimous in their decision to offer her the position and we are delighted that she chose to accept.
Stacey is a former partner of McKinsey & Co in the US, has a broad business experience and a deep knowledge of retail matters from an international perspective which complements the existing skills and outlook of the Board.
Further biographical details of Stacey and each of the Directors can be found on p60.
During the course of the next year, Sir Stuart Rose and David Rough, our Non-executive Directors will have completed nine and ten years of service respectively.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and guidance published by the NAPF, we conducted a rigorous review of their independence, together with an analysis of their contributions to Board and Committees, their external interests and roles.
The Committee concluded that both David and Sir Stuart were independent in character and judgement, noting, in particular, their objectivity and the constructive challenge that they provided to management and the additional support and guidance they provided Executive Directors and senior managers outside Board meetings.
Although we have refreshed our Board regularly with a new independent Non-executive Director being appointed during each of the past four years, I was delighted that David and Sir Stuart accepted my invitation to continue serving on the Board.
I know that their vast experience and support will be invaluable for our incoming Chief Executive.
74 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance As I mentioned in my earlier letter, Kevin OByrne took over from David Rough as our Senior Independent Director on 1 April 2012 and Simon Palley will become Chairman of our Remuneration Committee, in place of David, later in the year.
In addition, Sir Stuart will step down from the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
David and Sir Stuart have served with distinction in those positions and I would like to express my appreciation for their excellent work.
Having reviewed the effectiveness and commitment of the Non-executive Directors, we concluded that we were satisfied with the time commitment of each Non-executive Director during the year and were confident that each of them would be in a position to discharge their duties to the Company in the coming year.
We therefore recommend their reappointment to the Board at the forthcoming AGM.
During the year we also reviewed the leadership needs and succession planning of the Group, undertaking a Group wide talent review.
The review sought to establish the strength of the talent pool within the Group and to identify individuals with the potential to move upwards and laterally within the business.
Finally, the Committee approved the appointment of Richard Akers as a Non-executive Director at Barratt Developments PLC.
More information on his appointment and the potential conicts of interests of other Board members can be found on p77.
Alison Carnwath Chairman, Nominations Committee The Committees written terms of reference are available on the Companys website at http: www.
com about-us corporategovernance board-committees Land Securities Annual Report 2012 75 Corporate governance Board Effectiveness Professional development, support, training BOARD EVALUATION CYCLE CHART 56 and induction for Directors To develop and refresh the Boards knowledge and skills, the Chairman organised two development sessions.
These consisted of briengs from external and internal External evaluation by speakers on development appraisals and environmental issues affecting the independent, external business.
Furthermore, the Boards off-site Board meeting held over two days in consultants Leeds included a detailed assessment of the future of retail, the impact of the internet on retail and likely trends in London ofce space requirements.
It was also Interviews with the attended by a number of external experts and concluded with visits to the Groups Chairman and Group development at Trinity Leeds and its shopping centre at White Rose.
General Counsel & As part of their continuing development, the Group supports Executive Company Secretary Directors and Senior Managers taking up Non-executive Directorship positions at listed companies and charities as it feels this will benefit the Company in terms of giving them more rounded experience and assisting their development.
On 1 April Questionnaires on the issues 2012 Richard Akers accepted a Non-executive Directorship at Barratt raised in Year 1 by the same Developments PLC and during the year Francis Salway continued as a Nonindependent consultants executive Director at Next plc.
Prior to approving these appointments, the Nominations Committee considered the likely time commitment in their roles and the benefit for the Group in terms of the broadening of their experience.
This years Board evaluation was based on a series of separate interviews with Stacey Rauch was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 1 January 2012.
Directors, conducted by the Chairman and the Group General Counsel and Ms Rauch received a comprehensive induction arranged by the Chairman.
The items discussed in these interviews included the mix with senior management from the London and Retail teams, visiting a number of of skills and contributions amongst the Board, the quality and content of Board properties and development sites across the portfolios.
Ms Rauch also had separate papers, the risk appetite of the Group in relation to development and investment meetings with senior management from the Company Secretarial Legal, Tax and transactions as well as matters raised in Years 1 and 2.
Treasury, Corporate Affairs and Investor Relations, Human Resources, Finance, and The evaluation established that Directors felt the board had a good mix of Health and Safety teams.
In addition she received bespoke training on Corporate personalities and skills, with no notable gaps.
They were pleased with the Governance, was taken through the Groups financial statements and key financial Chairmans conduct of the processes to appoint a new Chief Executive and new metrics and met with the Groups auditors and valuers.
Non-executive Director, feeling them to be rigorous and inclusive.
Some offered suggestions for the skills to consider as the longer serving Non-executives retired.
Board access to appropriate information The consensus was that, with the number of Executive Directors reducing to three, Advice on governance matters was provided by the Group General Counsel and the Board was of a good size and did not require additional members although this Company Secretary during the year.
Information was provided to the Board in would be kept under review and considered again once the new Chief Executive had the appropriate form including detailed reports and presentations to enable it settled in his role.
Although none was sought during the year, all Directors A number of Directors encouraged forward looking Board papers, focusing on had access to external advice, at the expense of the Company.
strategy, trends and new opportunities as these were areas in which Non-executive During the year the Non-executive Directors met with the Executive Directors Directors felt more able to contribute to and add value.
and senior employees below Board level.
The meetings took place at Board dinners, For papers seeking approval for transactions and new developments, and Committee meetings as well as on a number of less formal occasions.
These Non-executive Directors emphasised the importance of context for managements meetings provided senior managers with exposure to and advice from the Board recommendation including how the proposals t with the Groups strategy and and enabled Non-executive Directors to learn more about the day-to-day running forecasts, and an assessment of the alternatives.
Furthermore, it was requested of the business.
that operational reviews should include regular updates on progress with the Groups key developments and ongoing transactions, with items likely to be Evaluation of the performance of the Board brought to the Board for approval agged as far ahead as possible.
Directors were supportive of how management incorporated risk and the A formal and rigorous evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees, evaluation of risk within proposals for transactions, funding and new development.
the Directors and the Chairman is conducted each year as we recognise that our They felt that the Group benefited from a strong balance sheet at a difficult time effectiveness is critical to the Companys continued success.
This year marked the third in our three year Board evaluation cycle.
In the first Overall, the outcome of the evaluation was very positive, with good progress year of the cycle, a detailed evaluation was conducted by Independent Audit noted on the areas of focus raised in previous evaluations.
Issues raised during the Limited, who followed up the issues raised in a questionnaire in the second year.
evaluation would be taken forward by the Chairman.
The Chairmans performance and leadership was reviewed by the Nonexecutive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director.
76 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance Independence Conflicts of interest The Nominations Committee reviewed and confirmed the independence of Sir The Board operates a policy to identify and, where appropriate, manage conicts Stuart Rose and David Rough.
Details of this review can be found in the letter from or potential conicts of interest.
Alison Carnwath, Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
The review included The Nominations Committee monitors this and considered that there was a thorough assessment against the criteria for independence set out in the UK a potential for a conict of interest to arise in relation to the positions of: Corporate Governance Code and guidance published by NAPF.
The Committee also Chris Bartram as Chairman of Orchard Street Investment Management and concluded that the remaining Non-executive Directors were fully independent in a Non-executive Director of the Crown Estate, which are in some areas of character and judgement and, as previously concluded, Alison Carnwath was operation, competitors of the Group independent at the time of her appointment as Chairman.
Francis Salway as Non-executive Director of Next plc, a customer of the Group Kevin OByrne as an Executive Director of Kingsher plc, a customer of the Group Richard Akers as a Non-executive Director of Barratt Developments PLC, which Approach to gender diversity is in some areas of operation, a competitor of the Group.
The Group has formal policies to promote equality of opportunity, including by gender, across the organisation, and the Board is confident that it will meet its The Committee addressed Chris Bartrams conict of interest by ensuring that, target to increase the representation of women on the Board to at least 25% by where appropriate, he did not take part in discussions or see relevant information 2015.
The Board has made good progress against this during the year under review on potential acquisitions of property.
Since operational matters, such as retail with the appointment of Stacey Rauch as a Non-executive Director, increasing the leasing, were unlikely to be considered at Board level, the Committee concluded proportion to 20%.
It does however believe that an appointment to the Board that in practice conicts of interest were unlikely to occur in relation to the should be based on merit and overall suitability for the role and a high priority is appointments of Francis Salway and Kevin OByrne.
attached to retaining our current senior team.
The Committee considered potential conicts of interest in relation to a proposal during the year to appoint Richard Akers as a Non-executive Director of Re-election to the Board Barratt Developments PLC.
The risk was considered low given the Group operated Since March 2010, all Directors have stood for re-election annually.
As detailed in in different sectors of the property market to Barratt Developments which is the notice of the Annual General Meeting all Directors, except Francis Salway who predominantly a residential house and at developer.
Nevertheless, the stepped down as Chief Executive on 31 March 2012, will again this year stand for appointment was approved on the basis that Barratt Developments agreed not re-election.
to circulate any papers to Mr Akers or involve him in discussions regarding an acquisition or disposal of land they believe might be in competition or conict with the Company.
Land Securities Annual Report 2012 77 Corporate governance Letter from the Chairman of the Audit Committee Land Securities Group PLC 5 Strand London WC2N 5AF Dear Shareholder, I would like to give you an overview of the operation and scope of the Audit Committee and report on our work over the past year.
The Committee comprised of David Rough, Chris Bartram and myself, all of whom are independent Non-executive Directors.
The Committees primary function is to assist the Board in fullling its oversight responsibilities by reviewing financial information provided to shareholders, reviewing the Companys system of internal controls and risk management, assessing the performance of the internal and external auditors and reviewing the external valuation process.
During the year the Committee met four times and its activities included reviewing: the preliminary and interim financial statements and matters raised by management and the external and internal auditors the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and risk management the results of internal audit reviews, and management action plans to resolve any issues arising and tracking their resolution the external auditors, their effectiveness, objectivity, independence, terms of engagement and the scope of the audit audit plans for external and internal audits its policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor the full and half year valuations and the external valuation process: and the Groups policies for preventing fraud and bribery, its employee code of conduct and its business ethics and anti-corruption policy.
As Audit Committee Chairman, I invited the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer to each meeting and other Directors to attend from time to time.
In addition, the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and representatives from the Groups auditors,  LLP PwC, were present at each meeting.
The Groups external valuers Knight Frank LLP also attended the meetings after the half year and full year valuations to present their reports.
Given the uncertainty in the markets and the wider economy this year, the Committee had a strong focus on risk.
It reviewed the Groups key risks in the light of the eurozone crisis highlighting those risks it felt had increased in the Groups interim results.
In addition, I invited the Executive Directors and senior management from the London and Retail portfolios to present to the Committee on the key risks facing the Group and the associated mitigation strategies.
These included presentations on development risks, strategies for dealing with the risk of lease expiries and the risks associated with market cyclicality, giving us visibility on how these risks are managed on a day-to-day basis.
We also reviewed the performance of PwC and their non-audit work and the performance of the external valuers.
More information on our work on these matters appears on the following pages together with an overview of our internal control and risk management process.
Finally, in conjunction with the Board evaluation outlined on p76, the Committee reviewed its own effectiveness and concluded that it continued to operate as an effective Audit Committee.
Kevin OByrne Chairman, Audit Committee Although all of the Committee members are considered to be appropriately experienced to full their role, Kevin OByrne is considered to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Further biographical details of each of the members of the Committee are set out in the Directors section of the Annual Report.
The Committees written terms of reference are available on the Companys website at http: www.
78 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRE DIREC CT TORS ORS RE REP PO OR RT T Corporate governance Accountability External Audits and Valuations Valuers The Audit Committee also has in place policies and procedures to monitor the External Auditors and Non-audit work objectivity of the external valuers, Knight Frank LLP.
The work of Knight Frank is The Audit Committee had policies and procedures in place to monitor and particularly important since the valuations of the Groups portfolio are a maintain the objectivity and independence of the external auditors, significant determinant of the Groups reported performance and senior  LLP PwC.
The policy requires prior approval by the management remuneration.
Chairman of the Audit Committee for non-audit work above a threshold level of The external valuers and external auditors have full access to one another and 25,000 per engagement.
operate with an open dialogue and exchange of information that is independent of During the year the auditors undertook the following non-audit work, none of the Group.
which exceeded the non-audit work threshold: During the year the Audit Committee Chairman, Kevin OByrne, attended Providing a comfort letter on the annual update of the Groups debt prospectus key valuation meetings along with the external auditors to be assured of the Reviewing agreed upon procedures in relation to non-statutory financial independence and rigour of the process.
In addition, Knight Frank presented its statements of Thomas More Square Estate valuation findings to the Audit Committee at the interim and full year review of results.
Reviewing agreed upon procedures in relation to the ground rent schedules We have a xed fee arrangement with our valuers.
Given the importance of provided to the Crown Estate for the Exeter properties the work undertaken by Knight Frank, we have disclosed the fees we pay them in Non-statutory reporting on the consolidated financial statements of note 8 to the financial statements.
LS Intermediate Limited The total fees paid by the Company to Knight Frank in the year represented Extraction procedures on the ground rent and service charge certicates less than 5% of their total fee income for the year.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the total fees that the Company pays to Knight Frank as a proportion of the Due to familiarity with the subject matter and alignment with work carried out total fees paid to all of our property advisers.
The Committee remains satisfied that under the audit these services were provided by PwC.
In order to maintain PwCs it represents only a small proportion of the total.
independence and objectively, PwC undertook their standard independence procedures in relation to those engagements.
Further details on the amounts Internal Controls and Risk Management of non-audit work paid to PwC are set out in note 7 to the financial statements.
The Committee also appraised the effectiveness of PwC, considered their The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control, which has been reappointment, and also assessed their independence.
The Committee concluded designed to manage, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to meet business that PwC remained independent.
Furthermore, PwC confirmed to the Committee objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against that they maintained appropriate internal safeguards to ensure their independence material misstatement or loss.
The Boards approach to risk management is and objectivity.
supported by an oversight structure which includes the Audit Committee.
During the year, the Audit Committee held a private meeting with PwC, The Board has an on-going process to identify, evaluate and manage the without management being present in order to receive feedback from them on significant risks faced by the Group, which has been in place throughout the year matters such as the quality of interaction with management.
The Chairman of the and up to the date of the approval of the annual report and accounts.
This process is Committee also met with them separately, on several occasions.
regularly reviewed by the Board, and accords with the 2005 Turnbull guidance.
In addition, the Board reviews annually the effectiveness of the risk management and significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates internal control systems.
The Audit Committee monitored the following areas as these were considered key because of their impact on the Groups results and remuneration of senior The key features of our system of risk management and internal control include: management or the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application on the consolidated financial statements: Strategic and business planning Property valuations A five year forecast and business plan is prepared annually, against which the Finance lease calculations performance of the business is regularly monitored, together with funding The accounting treatment for trading properties and trade receivables requirements and cashows.
Provisions Revenue recognition Investment appraisal Capitalisation of expenses significant capital projects, major contracts and business and property Calculation of revenue profit and adjusted earnings per share acquisitions are reviewed in detail and approved in accordance with a formal Valuation of interest-rate swaps schedule of reserved matters.
Compliance with the Real Estate Investment Trust REIT regime Post investment appraisals prepared by management are also received and reviewed.
Further details on each of these can be found in notes 2 and 3 to the financial statements on p110112.
Financial monitoring profitability, cash ow and capital expenditure are closely monitored and key historic and forecast financial information is reported to the Board on a monthly basis, including explanations of variances between actual and budgeted performance.
Systems of control, procedures and delegated authorities Clearly dened guidelines and approval limits exist for capital and operating expenditure and other key business transactions and decisions.
F inancial reporting controls identify and address key financial reporting risks including risks arising from changes in accounting standards, as well as any areas of accounting judgement.
Land Securities Annual Report 2012 79 Corporate governance Risk management Assurance The Group has a risk management process that is embedded throughout the The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of risk management organisation.
The risk management process is summarised as follows: and internal control including financial, operational and compliance controls.
This was primarily achieved by: reviewing key controls on a quarterly basis to ensure they were embedded and RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS CHART 57 operating effectively within the business reviewing the reports from the Risk Management and Internal Audit team on any issues identied in the course of their work.
The Director of Risk Identify risks Management and Internal Audit met regularly with senior management and attended all meetings of the Audit Committee reviewing annually the Groups system of internal control which includes a summary of key controls, a report from the internal audit team on their work Repor ort t risks We contextualise Assess ess and and the results of compliance questionnaires which provided assurances from and mitigation quantity risks risk in terms senior management that business activities had been conducted appropriately to Board of our goals and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function objectives monitoring the risks and associated controls over the financial reporting processes, including the process by which the Groups financial statements are prepared for publication reviewing reports from the external auditors on any issues identied in the course of their work, including an internal control report on control weaknesses.
Devel lo op p action Re-assess sses risks plans to post mitigation From the review of the risk management and internal control system, the Board mitigate risks confirms that no significant failings or weaknesses have been identied.
The Audit Committee also maintains a whistleblowing facility to enable employees to raise issues on a condential basis.
Identify that proportionate and independent investigation is undertaken on any Risks are identied for each area of the business and the Group as a whole.
No incidents were recorded during the year.
Assess and quantify Each risk is rated in terms of probability of occurrence and potential impact on financial performance and the reputation of the Group.
Develop action plans to mitigate The Risk Management and Internal Audit team assists the business in developing action plans to mitigate risk and review and test key business processes and controls, including following up with the implementation of management actions to the Audit Committee.
Re-assess risk post mitigation Risks are continually re-assessed to ensure that mitigation strategies have been effective.
Report risks and mitigation to the Board Risks are reviewed with the Executive Directors and the Audit Committee and then reported to the Board.
80 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRE DIREC CT TORS ORS RE REP PO OR RT T Corporate governance Relations with investors Approach to Investor Relations Private Shareholders programme and the Annual General Meeting AGM The Board has a comprehensive Investor Relations programme which aims to provide existing and potential investors with a means of developing their Private shareholders are actively encouraged to give feedback and communicate understanding of the Group.
with the Directors, through the Company Secretary.
They were also able to meet The Investor Relations programme is split between institutional shareholders Directors at the United Kingdom Shareholders Association UKSA meeting, held which make up the majority of shareholders, private shareholders and debt annually at our head ofce and at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Feedback from the programme of events is provided to the Board to The AGM provided all shareholders with an opportunity to question the Board ensure that they develop an understanding of the Groups major investors.
During and the Chairmen of the Board Committees on matters put to the meeting the year under review, the programme included: including the Annual Report.
Shareholders who attended the AGM were given a detailed presentation by the Chief Executive on the activities and performance Institutional Shareholders programme of the Group over the preceding year.
The results of voting at general meetings are published on the Companys Meetings with principal shareholders website, www.
com investors  Meetings with Directors and the Chairman were offered on a regular basis , as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Chairman, particularly with regard to the Chief Executive succession, Debt Investors programme maintained contact with principal shareholders and kept the Board informed of their views.
Credit side institutional investors M eetings were held with our Chief Financial officer and the Treasury team Road shows after the annual and half-year results.
Institutional shareholders were invited to annual and half-yearly results meetings.
As well as the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the Senior Banks Independent Director were available to meet with shareholders.
T here was regular dialogue with our key relationship banks including quarterly meetings with the Treasury team and in-house dinners with Investor conference Executive Directors and the Senior Independent Director.
The Investor conference is held annually and focuses on the Retail and London portfolios in alternate years.
This year the conference was held in Leeds and Further information on our debt investors can be found http: www.
focused on the Retail portfolio.
As well as updates on market conditions and com investors debt-investors.
our business, there were property tours of Trinity Leeds and White Rose, and an opportunity for attendees to meet management below Executive Independent feedback on Investor Relations Director level.
As a Board we receive independent feedback on Investor Relations through a The presentations and an audio-cast or web-cast of the conference were biennial presentation by Makinson Cowell, an independent adviser.
Makinson made available on the corporate website to enable those investors who Cowell undertook a comprehensive Investor Relations audit this year, could not attend to access all the information disclosed at the conference.
benchmarking all aspects of the Investor Relations programme and interviewing principal investors face-to-face to obtain their views on management and business Industry conferences performance.
The results were then presented to the Board, with suggestions and Industry conferences provide Executive Directors with a chance to meet improvements being taken forward by management.
Recommendations and a large number of shareholders on a formal and more informal basis.
actions included: Conferences that were attended by Executive Directors included the UBS continuing the Chairmans periodic contact with larger investors Global Property conference in London, Citi CEO conference in Florida, Merrill extending coverage through investor relations only meetings Lynch conference in New York, the Nomura conference in Tokyo, and the developing practices to broaden contacts with remuneration, corporate Kempen conference in Amsterdam, amongst others.
Our Investor Relations department also received feedback from analysts and investors semi-annually through the Groups corporate advisers.
These were fed back to the Board to help develop their understanding of our shareholders.
Other disclosures Other disclosures required by paragraph 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Companies Act 2006 are set out in the Report of the Directors on p100.
