London & Stamford Property Plc 21 Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Statement by the Directors on compliance Board activities withtheprovisions of the code The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategy, The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of control and effective leadership of the Group.
There is a formal corporate governance and considers that the Company has schedule of matters reserved for its approval, including: complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the UK approval of interim and annual financial statements Corporate Governance Code throughout the year, except for the anddividends: non-independence of one of the Non-Executive Directors and the setting and monitoring of overall strategy: re-election of Directors as noted below.
The role of the Chairman is an executive position.
reviewing property valuations: The Companys principal governance policies and practices are acquisitions and disposals: set out below.
approval of major capital expenditure projects: The Board of Directors treasury and nancing arrangements: and internal control, risk management and Board evaluation.
Composition This schedule of matters is reviewed and agreed by the Board The Board comprises the Chairman, two other Executive onan annual basis.
Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
The biographies ofallmembers of the Board are set out on page 17.
The Board is assisted by an Investment Committee comprising the Executive Directors and the senior management team.
There are clearly dened roles for the executive Chairman TheInvestment Committee meets monthly to discuss property Raymond Mould and Chief Executive Patrick Vaughan which investment and development activities and the ongoing have been approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible management of the Group.
The Minutes of these meetings for leading the Board and monitoring its effectiveness and the aremade available to the Board.
Chief Executive is responsible for the day to day management ofthe Group and delivery of strategic objectives.
The Board receives comprehensive reports and brieng papers one week prior to Board and Committee meetings to enable Attendance at Board meetings them to full their responsibilities.
The Board has a regular schedule of meetings together with Presentations on current and prospective property portfolios are further meetings as required by the ongoing business of the made regularly to the Board by senior management and property Group.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to communicate visits are regularly arranged.
directly with the Executive Directors and senior management All Directors have access at all times to the advice and services between scheduled Board Meetings, as part of each Directors ofthe Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that contribution to the delivery of the Companys strategy and Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and delivery of shareholder returns.
The following table shows governance regulations are complied with.
Directors attendance at Board meetings they were eligible to attend during the period: The Directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, take Audit Remuneration independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
Board Committee Committee The commitments of each Director outside of the Company are Number of meetings 6 3 2 kept under review by the Board to ensure that sufficient time is available to enable them to discharge their responsibilities Attended: effectively.
Raymond Mould 6 n a n a The Chairman is also a non-executive director of FF&P Russia Real Estate Limited and FF&P Russia Real Estate Development Patrick Vaughan 6 n a n a Limited, for which he received fees of 65,000 2011: 65,000 Martin McGann 6 n a n a and 70,000 2011: 75,000 respectively in the year.
The Board Mark Burton 6 3 2 is satisfied that these appointments do not adversely affect his commitment as the Companys Chairman.
Charles Cayzer 6 3 2 Richard Crowder 5 2 1 Re-election of Directors James Dean 6 n a 2 In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, all Humphrey Price 6 3 n a Directors are required to submit themselves for election at the first opportunity following their appointment by the Board and Where Directors are unable to attend meetings, their comments thereafter for re-election at least every three years.
Accordingly, are provided to the Board prior to the meeting.
Martin McGann, James Dean and Richard Crowder are proposed for re-election at the forthcoming Annual GeneralMeeting.
The Board considers this departure from the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code that all Directors are submitted for re-election annually is necessary to ensure the effective and ongoing management of the business.
Financial statements Governance Operating and financial review Overview London & Stamford Property Plc 22 Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Non-Executive Directors Board committees The Board is satisfied that, with the exception of Humphrey Price, The Board has two Committees, the Audit and the the Non-Executive Directors are independent of management Remuneration Committees, each having written terms of and have no business or other relationship which could materially reference which are reviewed annually by the Board and which interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
are available on written request and on the Companys website: www.
Humphrey Price is not considered to be independent within the meaning of the Corporate Governance Code as a result of his The Chairman of each Committee reports the outcome of meetings to the Board long working association with the three Executive Directors at Pillar Property Plc and Arlington Securities.
There have been no new appointments to the Board since listing The Board nevertheless considers that the knowledge and in October 2010.
The process of any such appointment in the experience he brings, having been the Finance Director of these future will be led by a Nominations Committee of the Board to very successful listed property companies, and his ability to act which Directors will be appointed as required and will constitute independently, make him a most qualied and appropriate amajority of Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Audit Committee The Board believes that the Non-Executive Directors have the The Audit Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors appropriate balance of skills, including significant and relevant ofthe Company except for James Dean and is chaired by commercial experience and knowledge, as evidenced by their Humphrey Price.
Its responsibilities include monitoring the biographies, to enable them to make a valuable contribution to integrity of the Companys financial statements, reviewing the the Board and Company.
The Non-Executive Directors, chaired effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk by the Senior Independent Director, Charles Cayzer, have management systems, reviewing whistleblowing arrangements, metseparately from the Board and will continue to meet as overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, monitoring necessary, but at least annually, without the Executive Directors the external auditors independence and objectivity and reviewing present to address any matters which they may wish to raise and the scope and results of audits.
to appraise the performance of the Chairman.
The Committee met three times last year, with meetings On their appointment, Non-Executive Directors are provided with organised around the Companys financial reporting a comprehensive Board pack and are briefed on the Groups requirements.
The Finance Director and other senior assets, nances, risks and strategy.
management and the external auditors attend meetings This year the Non-Executive Directors attended the valuation byinvitation.
meetings with the Auditors and external advisors to discuss BDO LLP has confirmed to the Audit Committee that they theGroups year end property valuations and the UK property remain independent and have maintained internal safeguards to market in general.
ensure the objectivity of the engagement partner and audit staff Board performance and evaluation is not impaired.
In March 2012, the Board undertook its first formal evaluation Sums payable to BDO LLP in relation to the 2012 audit were ofits own performance and that of its Committees and 155,000 2011:192,000 and in relation to non-audit services individualDirectors.
The process required each Director to complete a questionnaire The Committee has considered the level of non-audit fees and based on the components of good governance established nature of non-audit services provided and is satisfied that auditor bythe UK Corporate Governance Code, which focused on independence has been maintained.
theobjectives, strategy and remit for the Board, performance PwC advise the Company and Group on tax compliance measurement, relationships with shareholders, effectiveness of andplanning.
risk management and corporate reporting and the effectiveness Due to the size and structure of the Group, the Committee does of the Board, individual Directors and Committees.
The results not believe an internal audit function is necessary, but this were very positive and concluded that: requirement is kept under regular review.
The Company does, Board Committees were operating effectively and reporting however, undertake a regular review of key controls and their findings to the Board: processes in conjunction with the external audit team.
corporate strategy and objectives were clear and company resources and performance measurements were well aligned with strategy: and there is regular and open communication with shareholders.
There were no recommendations to change the way the Boardoperates.
This process will be conducted annually and will be externally facilitated every three years.
London & Stamford Property Plc 23 Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Internal controls The Remuneration Committee comprises the Non-Executive The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Directors of the Company except for Humphrey Price and is Groups system of internal controls and risk management and chaired by James Dean.
forreviewing its effectiveness at least annually.
Its responsibilities include recommending to the Board The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk theremuneration of the Executive Directors and other senior of failure to achieve the Groups objectives.
The system can only executives, and determining awards and targets under provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Remuneration Committees role is described further in the The main elements of the internal control framework are: Remuneration report on pages 24 to 26. a comprehensive and documented system of financial The Remuneration Committee met twice last year.
budgeting and reporting: a management structure with clearly dened roles Relations with shareholders andresponsibilities that enables effective and efficient Communication with shareholders is given high priority and the decisionmaking: Company undertakes a regular dialogue with major shareholders close involvement of the Executive Directors in day to day and fund managers.
operations: Peel Hunt LLP and Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited monthly meetings of the Investment Committee, which continue to act as Joint Financial Advisers and Brokers to the assesses and monitors strategic and operational risk: and Company and assist the Board in communicating on a regular basis with major shareholders and fund managers.
Following the the maintenance of a risk register and a financial reporting announcement of interim and year end results, the Executive procedures memorandum, both of which identify key financial Directors host a series of formal meetings and presentations and other internal controls.
The Senior Independent During the year the Audit Committee undertook a comprehensive Director attends meetings at his discretion and feedback is review and assessment of risk management and internal reported to the Non-Executive Directors.
This involved a review of the risk management as requested with at least the top twenty shareholders of the framework in place to manage the key property, financial and Company.
operational risks facing the business.
The Board is kept updated on shareholder related issues by ad A detailed Internal Control Evaluation questionnaire was hoc meetings between the Executive Directors and shareholders completed by senior management and reviewed by the at other times during the year at either the request of the Committee highlighting the physical, managerial and financial shareholders or advice of the Companys brokers controls in place to manage and minimise identied risks.
Shareholders are informed of the Companys progress though Keyndings and recommendations were reported to the Board.
results statements and other announcements released through Jadzia Duzniak the London Stock Exchange.
Company announcements are Company Secretary made available on the website.
Shareholders can raise questions 30 May 2012 directly with the Company or at any time through a facility on thewebsite.
The Executive Directors and Senior Independent Director are available as a contact for shareholders and the whole Board attends and is available to answer shareholder questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Full interim and annual reports are sent to all shareholders and details of the resolutions to be propose at the Annual General Meeting on 11 July 2012 can be found in the Notice of Meeting on pages 53 to 55.
Details ofthe number of proxy votes for, against and withheld for each resolution will be disclosed at the meeting and posted to the Companys website.
Financial statements Governance Operating and financial review Overview
