Governance Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 47 I Board any transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Meetings attendance Company.
The Companys Articles of Association authorise the The following table shows the attendance of Directors in office at Directors to approve such situations and to include other provisions 30September 2012 at meetings of the Board, Audit, Corporate to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with.
The Board follows an Responsibility CR, Nomination and Remuneration Committees established procedure when deciding whether to authorise an actual during the year to 30 September 2012: or potential conflict of interest.
Only independent Directors i. e. those who have no interest in the matter under consideration will be able Audit CR Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee to take the relevant decision, and in taking the decision the Directors Name Attendance Attendance Attendance Attendance Attendance must act in good faith and in a way they consider will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
Furthermore, the Directors may, if John Bason 8 of 8 4 of 4 2 of 2 2 of 2 4 of 4 appropriate, impose limits or conditions when granting authorisation.
1 Dominic Blakemore 5 of 5 1 of 1 Richard Cousins 8 of 8 2 of 2 2 of 2 Any authorities are reviewed at least every 15 months.
The Board Sir James Crosby 8 of 8 3 of 4 2 of 2 2 of 2 4 of 4 considered and authorised each Directors reported actual and Sir Roy Gardner 8 of 8 2 of 2 2 of 2 potential conflicts of interest at its July 2012 Board meeting.
Gary Green 8 of 8 2 Andrew Martin 8 of 8 1 of 1 Succession planning is a matter for the whole Board, rather than Susan Murray 8 of 8 4 of 4 1 of 2 2 of 2 4 of 4 for a Committee.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that Don Robert 8 of 8 4 of 4 2 of 2 2 of 2 4 of 4 one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year and that each Sir Ian Robinson 8 of 8 4 of 4 2 of 2 2 of 2 4 of 4 Director will seek re-election at the AGM every three years.
However, in accordance with the Code, all Directors submit themselves for 1 Dominic Blakemore was appointed to the Board on 27 February 2012. annual re-election by Shareholders.
New Directors may be appointed 2 Andrew Martin ceased to be a member of the CR Committee on by the Board, but are subject to election by Shareholders at the first 2 April 2012. opportunity after their appointment.
The Articles of Association limit the number of Directors to not less than two and not more than 20 The table shows the number of meetings attended out of the save where Shareholders decide otherwise.
Non-Executive Directors number of meetings which each Director was eligible to attend.
are normally appointed for an initial term of three years which is Directors who are not members of individual Board Committees reviewed and may be extended for a further three years.
It is Board have also been invited to attend one or more meetings of those policy that Non-Executive Director appointments should last for no Committees during the year.
There were two occasions where a Director was unable to attend A formal, comprehensive and tailored induction is given to all Nona meeting.
In one instance this was as a result of a long-standing Executive Directors following their appointment, including visits to commitment and in the other, this was due to circumstances beyond key locations within the Group and meetings with members of the the Directors control.
Executive Committee and other key senior executives.
The induction also covers a review of the Groups governance policies, structures Nomination Committee and business, including details of the risks and operating issues The Nomination Committee comprises Sir Roy Gardner Chairman, facing theGroup.
Richard Cousins and all of the Non-Executive Directors in office at the date of this Report.
Sir James Crosby is the Companys Senior Independent NonExecutive Director.
His role includes providing a sounding board for The Nomination Committee meets on an as needed basis.
The the Chairman and acting as an intermediary for the Non-Executive Committee met twice during the year and Members attendance Directors, where necessary.
The Board believes that Sir James is set out in the table above.
continues to have the appropriate experience, knowledge and independence to continue in this role.
During the year the Nomination Committee reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees and The Chairman ensures that the Board maintains an appropriate made recommendations with regard to any changes considered dialogue with Shareholders.
Although the Non-Executive Directors necessary, in the identification and nomination of new Directors, the are not formally required to meet the Shareholders of the Company, reappointment of existing Directors, and appointment of members their attendance at presentations of the interim and annual results to the Boards committees.
It also assessed the roles of the existing isencouraged.
Directors in office to ensure that there continues to be a balanced Board in terms of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity.
Committees of the Board The Board has established a number of committees and the formal The Company adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure Terms of Reference for the principal Committees, approved by for the appointment of new Directors and Senior Executives with the Board and complying with the Code, to assist in the discharge due regard to diversity and gender.
Prior to making an appointment, of its duties, are available from the General Counsel and Company the Committee will evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, Secretary and can also be found on the Companys website at independence, experience and diversity on the Board and, in the www.
Their Terms of Reference are reviewed light of this evaluation, will prepare a description of the role and annually and updated where necessary.
Membership and details capabilities required, with a view to appointing the best placed of the principal Committees are shown on pages 47 to 49.
The individual for the role.
General Counsel and Company Secretary acts as Secretary to all BoardCommittees.
