48 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Corporate governance In identifying suitable candidates, theCommittee: Executive Committee The Executive Committee is the key management committee and uses open advertising or the services of external advisors to comprises the Executive Directors of the Company, General Counsel facilitate the search and Company Secretary, Group Human Resources Director and considers candidates from different genders and a wide range Group Managing Directors.
The Committee meets regularly and of backgrounds is responsible for developing the Groups strategy and capital considers candidates on merit and against objective criteria expenditure and investment budgets and reporting on these areas ensuring that appointees have sufficient time to devote to the to the Board for approval, implementing Group policy, monitoring position, in light of other significant commitments financial, operational and customer quality of service performance, health and safety, purchasing and supply chain issues, succession The Nomination Committee retained independent external search planning and day-to-day management of the Group.
consultants in respect of the most recent appointments to the Board, being those of John Bason and Dominic Blakemore, and Audit Committee will do so in the future, as appropriate.
The Nomination Committee reviews the senior leadership needs of the Group to enable it to The Audit Committee comprises all of the Non-Executive Directors compete effectively in the marketplace.
The Nomination Committee in office at the date of this Report.
Members of the Audit Committee also advises the Board on succession planning for Executive the Committee are appointed by the Board following recommendations Director appointments although the Board itself is responsible by the Nomination Committee and the Committees membership is for succession generally.
reviewed by the Nomination Committee and as part of the annual Board performance evaluation.
Remuneration Committee Each member of the Committee brings relevant senior level financial The Remuneration Committee comprises Sir James Crosby experience.
The expertise and experience of the members of the Chairman and all of the other Non-Executive Directors in office Committee are summarised on pages 26 and 27.
The Board considers at the date of this Report.
The Committee met four times during the that each member of the Committee is independent within the definition year and Directors attendance can be found in the table on page 47. set out in the Code.
The Committees Chairman, John Bason, is considered by the Board to have significant, recent and relevant The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making financial experience as Finance Director of Associated British Foodsplc.
recommendations on remuneration to the Board.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 53 to 65.
The Chairman All members of the Committee receive an appropriate induction, of the Remuneration Committee attends the AGM to respond to any which includes an overview of the business, its financial dynamics shareholder questions that might be raised on the Remuneration and risks.
Audit Committee members are expected to have an Committees activities.
understanding of the principles of, and recent developments in, financial reporting, including the applicable accounting standards and General Business Committee statements of recommended practice, key aspects of the Companys policies, financing, internal control mechanisms, and matters that The General Business Committee comprises all of the Executive require the use of judgment in the presentation of accounts and key Directors and meets as required to conduct the Companys business figures as well as the role of internal and external auditors.
Members within clearly defined limits delegated by the Board and subject to of the Committee undertake ongoing training as required.
those matters reserved to the Board.
The Committee meets regularly throughout the year and its agenda Corporate Responsibility Committee is linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
Each member The Corporate Responsibility Committee comprises Susan Murray of the Committee may require reports on matters of interest in addition Chairman, Sir Roy Gardner, Dominic Blakemore, Richard Cousins, to the regular items.
The Committee met four times during the year Mark White General Counsel and Company Secretary, Jane Kingston and Members attendance at the meetings is set out in the table Group Human Resources Director and all of the Non-Executive on page 47.
Directors in office at the date of this Report.
Andrew Martin ceased to be a Member of this Committee on 2 April 2012 and Dominic The Committee invites the Group Chairman, the Group Chief Blakemore became a Member on 27 February 2012, when he was Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Head of Financial appointed to the Board.
Reporting and Control and the Director of Group Internal Audit, together with senior representatives of the external Auditor, to attend The Corporate Responsibility Committees primary responsibilities each meeting although, from time to time, it reserves time for include: health, safety and environmental practices, ethical business discussions without invitees being present.
Other senior management conduct, the promotion of employee engagement and diversity and are invited to present such reports as are required for the Committee community investment.
The Committee met twice during the year and Members attendance The Chairman of the Audit Committee attends the AGM to respond is shown in the table on page 47. to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on its activities.
The remuneration of the members of the Committee and the policy with regard to the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors are Disclosure Committee set out on page 64.
At the date of this Report the Disclosure Committee comprises Dominic Blakemore, Mark White, the Head of Financial Reporting The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its responsibilities related and Control and the Director of Corporate Strategy, Media and to external financial reporting and associated announcements.
Investor Relations, and meets as required to deal with all matters relating to public announcements of the Company and the Companys obligations under the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Governance Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 49 I During the year, the Audit Committee evaluated, reviewed and considered its robustness and the degree to which Deloitte LLP was monitored the following: able to assess key accounting and audit judgments and the content of the management letter.
the interim and annual financial statements the interim and annual results announcements made to the The Committee concluded that the audit was effective and that the London Stock Exchange relationship and effectiveness of the external Auditor be kept under significant accounting issues including the consideration review.
Deloitte LLP also audits significant subsidiaries of the Group.
of any goodwill impairment assessments operation of the Groups Speak Up whistle-blowing policy The total fees paid to Deloitte LLP in the year ended 30 September the Groups internal audit function and approval of the internal 2012 were 6.8 million 2011: 6.9 million of which 2.4 million auditplan 2011: 3.0 million related to non-audit work.
Further disclosure the effectiveness of the external audit process of the non-audit fees paid during the year ended 30 September objectivity, terms and fees of the external Auditor 2012 can be found in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements scope of audit and non-audit services provided by the on page 83. externalAuditor litigation and contingent liabilities During the year, preliminary consideration was given to the tax matters, including compliance with statutory tax potential impact of the proposed requirement by the UK Financial reportingobligations Reporting Council the FRC and the European Union Commission the Commission to mandatorily retender auditors and to the The Committee is also responsible for the development, provision of non-audit services by the Auditor.
implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy on external audit.
The Committee reserves oversight responsibility for monitoring Whilst continuing to monitor the proposed changes by the the Auditors independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical, Commission in respect of auditor services and retendering, the professional and regulatory requirements.
The Committee Committee has recognised the changes made by the FRC from recommends the appointment, reappointment and removal of the 1 October 2012 including their proposed transitional guidelines Companys external Auditor, and considers the risks associated with issued just before the end of the financial year in September 2012 its withdrawal from the market in its risk evaluation and planning.
and currently intends to retender the audit during the financial year The Committee also reviews the terms, areas of responsibility and ending 30 September 2014. scope of the audit as set out in the external Auditors engagement letter: the overall work plan for the forthcoming year, together with the The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal associated fee proposal and cost-effectiveness of the audit: any major audit function and its relationship with the external Auditor, including issues which arise during the course of the audit and their resolution: internal audit resources, plans and performance as well as the key accounting and audit judgments: the level of errors identified degree to which the function is free of management restrictions.
during the audit: the recommendations made to management by Throughout the year, the Committee reviewed the internal audit the Auditor and managements response: and the Auditors overall functions plans and its achievements against those plans.
The Committee also ensures that key partners within The Committee considered the results of the audits undertaken the external Auditor are rotated from time to time in accordance with by the internal audit function and considered the adequacy of applicable UK rules.
The Committee monitors the extent of non-audit managements response to matters raised, including the time work which the external Auditor can perform, to ensure that the taken to resolve any such matters.
provision of those non-audit services that can be undertaken by the external Auditor falls within the agreed policy and does not impair their The Committee also reviews the integrity of material financial objectivity or independence.
In this respect the Committee has agreed statements made by the Company.
The Committee monitors and that, unless there is no other competent and available provider, the reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, external Auditor should be excluded from providing the Company accounting policies and practices and compliance controls as well with general consultancy and all other non-audit and non-tax related as the Companys statements on internal control before they are services.
Engagements for non-audit services that are not prohibited agreed by the Board for each years Annual Report.
The Board are subject to formal approval by the Committee based on the level retains overall responsibility for internal control and the identification of fees involved.
Non-audit services that are pre-approved are either and management of business risk.
routine in nature with a fee that is not significant in the context of the audit or are audit related services.
The Company remains committed to the highest standards of business conduct and expects all of its employees to act Within the constraints of applicable UK rules, the external Auditor accordingly.
The Groups Speak Up policy an extension of the undertakes some due diligence reviews and provides assistance on Code of Ethics now incorporated within the Groups Code of tax matters, given its in-depth knowledge of the Groups business, Business Conduct which was launched in 40 languages during 2011 although assistance on these matters is also obtained from other and is available on the Companys website sets out arrangements firms.
The provision of non-audit services within such constraints and for the receipt, in confidence, of complaints on accounting, risk the agreed policy is assessed on a case-by-case basis so that the issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters which best-placed advisor is retained.
Principal non-audit services approved would, as appropriate, be reported to the Committee, and Speak Up by the Audit Committee during the year ended 30 September 2012 is a standard review item on all internal work programmes.
Copies comprised the provision of assistance on tax matters, IT consultancy of the Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics are available on the services and due diligence advice in respect of potential acquisitions.
The Committee also receives regular updates on bribery and fraud trends and Deloitte LLP was appointed as Auditor to the Company on its activity in the business, if any, at least twice each year with individual incorporation, and is subject to annual reappointment by Shareholders.
updates being given to the Committee, as needed, in more serious To ensure objectivity, key members of the audit team rotate off the cases of alleged bribery, fraud or related activities.
The Groups Companys audit with the lead audit partner expected to next rotate anti-fraud policies are a subset of the Code of Business Conduct in 2013.
During the year, the Committee reviewed Deloitte LLPs fees, which does not tolerate any activity involving fraud, dishonesty or effectiveness and whether the agreed audit plan had been fulfilled deception.
These policies, for which the Committee retains overall and the reasons for any variation from the plan.
