46 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Corporate governance throughout the Group.
Together with the Group Chief Executive and UK Corporate Governance Code compliance the General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Chairman ensures The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate that the Board is kept properly informed and is consulted on all governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the issues reserved to it.
Board papers and other information are Code.
The Board is accountable to the Companys Shareholders distributed at times to allow Directors to be properly briefed in for good governance and this Report, together with the Directors advance of meetings.
In accordance with the Companys Articles Remuneration Report set out on pages 53 to 65, describes how the of Association, Directors have been granted an indemnity issued by Board has applied the main principles of good governance set out in the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities the Code during the year under review.
It is the Boards view that the incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity would not provide Company has been fully compliant with the provisions of the Code in any coverage where a Director is proved to have acted fraudulently force during the year to 30 September 2012. or dishonestly.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its Directors The Board and Officers.
As at 30 September 2012 and as at the date of this Report, the Board The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and of Directors was made up of ten members, comprising the Chairman, clearly defined with the division of responsibilities set out in writing four Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
Dominic and agreed by the Board.
Blakemore was appointed as an Executive Director of the Company on 27 February 2012 and succeeded Andrew Martin as Group Finance Director on 2 April 2012.
In accordance with best practice, the Chairman addresses the developmental needs of the Board as a whole, with a view to further developing its effectiveness as a team and ensures that each Mr Martin became Group Chief Operating Officer for Europe & Japan Director refreshes and updates his or her individual skills, knowledge on 2 April 2012.
On the same date, Gary Green became Group Chief and expertise.
The appointment of Dominic Blakemore during the Operating Officer, North America, with Richard Cousins continuing to year further strengthens the existing capability of the Board.
be responsible for the Fast Growing & Emerging countries.
A performance evaluation of the Board and of its Committees is All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be carried out annually to ensure that they continue to be effective independent of management and free of any relationship which could and that each of the Directors demonstrates commitment to his materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment.
or her respective role and has sufficient time to meet his or her The Board considers that each of the Non-Executive Directors brings commitment to the Company.
their own senior level of experience, gained in each of their own fields, mainly in international operations.
Having conducted its evaluation, it is the view of the Board that each of the Non-Executive Directors brings considerable management Biographical details of the Directors currently in office are shown experience and an independent perspective to the Boards on pages 26 and 27.
The Companys policy relating to the terms discussions and they are considered to be independent of of appointment and the remuneration of both Executive and Nonmanagement and free from any relationship or circumstance Executive Directors is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report that could affect, or appear to affect, the exercise of their on pages 61 and 64. independentjudgment.
The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc In view of Board changes and the refinement of the Groups basis, as required by business need.
The Board met eight times operating and reporting regions during the year and in order to allow during the year and Director attendance for each meeting is shown such changes to bed in, an independent formal external evaluation in the table on page 47.
Each Director also attends the AGM to answer will be carried out during the year ending 30 September 2013 in shareholder questions.
accordance with the provisions of the Code.
The Board manages the business of the Company and may, subject Meetings between the Non-Executive Directors, both with and to the Articles of Association and applicable legislation, borrow money, without the presence of the Group Chief Executive, are scheduled guarantee, indemnify, mortgage or charge the business, property and in the Boards annual programme.
Board meetings are also regularly assets present and future and issue debentures and other securities held at Group business locations to help all Board members to and give security, whether outright or as a collateral security, for any gain a deeper understanding of the business.
This also provides debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
The senior managers from across the Group with the opportunity to Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, present to the Board as well as to meet the Directors on more although its primary role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and informal occasions.
to review the overall strategic development of the Group as a whole.
In addition, the Board sets the Groups values and standards and ensures that it acts ethically and that its obligations to its Shareholders As part of their ongoing development, the Executive Directors are understood and met.
The Board may delegate any of its powers may seek one external non-executive role on a non-competitor to any Committee consisting of one or more Directors.
board, for which they may retain the remuneration in respect of the appointment.
In order to avoid any conflict of interest, all appointments are subject to the Boards approval and the Board The Board has delegated day-to-day operational decisions to the monitors the extent of Directors other interests to ensure that its Executive Committee referred to on page 48. effectiveness is notcompromised.
The Board has established a procedure for Directors, if deemed Each Director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys CA 2006 to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Every Director also has a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict access to the General Counsel and Company Secretary, who is with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the charged with ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that obligation that he or she owes to the Company to disclose to the good corporate governance and compliance is implemented
