ATTENDANCE CARD Compass Group PLC the Company ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The proxy may be completed on the Internet by going to www.
com and logging into your share portal account or registering for the share portal if you have not already done so.
To register for the share portal you will need your investor code set out below.
Once registered you will be able to vote immediately.
NOTICE OF AvAILAbILITY NOTICE OF AGM AND 2012 ANNUAL REPORT IMPORTAnT Please read carefully.
You can now access the 2012 Annual Report and notice of AGM on the Companys website at www.
If you wish to receive a paper copy of the Annual Report, please contact Capita Registrars, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
Please note the deadline for To be held on Thursday 7 February 2013 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 12 noon.
receiving proxies is 12 noon on Tuesday 5 February 2013.
If you wish to attend this Meeting in your capacity as a holder of ordinary shares, please sign this card and on arrival hand it to the Companys Registrar.
This will facilitate entry to the Meeting.
Signature of Bar code: person attending Investor code: Compass Group PLC the Company ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING FORM OF PROXY Bar code: I We being a member s of the Company hereby appoint the Chairman of the Meeting OR see note 1 Investor code: Event code: as my our proxy to exercise all or any of my our rights to attend, speak and vote on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at 12 noon on Thursday 7 February 2013 the Meeting AGM, or at any adjournment thereof.
I We have indicated with an X how I we wish my our votes to be cast on the Resolutions set out below and I we direct that my our proxy will vote or abstain from voting as he she thinks fit for me us and on my our behalf on any other matter which may properly come before the AGM or any adjournment thereof.
Please tick here if this proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments being made.
For the appointment of more than one proxy, please refer to note 1.
Please mark X to indicate Please mark X to indicate RESOLUTIONS how you wish to vote RESOLUTIONS how you wish to vote 1 Receive and adopt the Directors Annual Report 12 Re-elect Don Robert as a Director and Accounts and the Auditors Report thereon 13 Re-elect Sir Ian Robinson as a Director 2 Receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report 14 Re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditor 3 Declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares 15 Authorise the Directors to agree the Auditors remuneration 4 Re-elect Sir Roy Gardner as a Director 5 Elect Dominic Blakemore as a Director 16 Donations to EU political organisations 17 Approve changes to the Compass Group PLC 6 Re-elect Richard Cousins as a Director Long Term Incentive Plan 2010 7 Re-elect Gary Green as a Director 18 Authority to allot shares s. 551 8 Re-elect Andrew Martin as a Director 19 Special Resolution authority to allot shares for cash s. 561 9 Re-elect John Bason as a Director 20 Special Resolution authority to purchase shares 10 Re-elect Sir James Crosby as a Director 21 Special Resolution reduce general meeting notice periods 11 Re-elect Susan Murray as a Director To assist with arrangements, if you intend attending the Meeting in person please place an X in the box opposite You may submit your Signature Date proxy electronically at www.
com For Against Vote Withheld For Against Vote Withheld Notes 1.
You are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies, who need not be a member 8.
You should return the Form of Proxy in the envelope provided and return it to of the Company or the Chairman of the Meeting, to exercise all or any of your Freepost RSBH-UXKS-LRBC, PXS, 34Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent rights to attend, speak and vote.
You may appoint more than one proxy, BR3 4TU.
There is no postage to pay if posted in the UK.
Shareholders outside provided that each proxy is appointed in respect of a different share or shares.
the UK can reply by posting the Form of Proxy in a separate envelope to Capita If you wish to appoint a person other than the Chairman, please insert the Registrars, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, UK.
name of your chosen proxy holder in the space provided.
com for the receipt of any appointed in relation to less than your full voting entitlement, please enter in documents or information relating to proxies for the AGM such as the the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to appointment or notice of termination of the authority of any proxy for the which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
If left blank, your proxy will AGM or any document necessary to show the validity of, or otherwise relating be deemed to be authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement.
If you to the appointment of a proxy.
You may not use this address to communicate appoint more than one proxy, additional proxy forms may be obtained by with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
contacting Capita Registrars on Freephone 0800 280 2545 or you may photocopy this form.
Please indicate by ticking the box provided if the 10.
Please see the AGM notice for further advice on how to appoint instruct instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
All forms must be proxies via CREST.
signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
To register your appointment of a proxy online, you will require your investor 2.
For each Resolution, please indicate with an X in the box provided how code which can be foundoverleaf.
If you fail to select any of the given options on a particular Resolution, the proxy will vote or abstain as he she thinks fit in respect of 12.
If more than one proxy appointment is returned, either by paper or electronic your shareholding.
communication not as described in note 1 that proxy received last by the Registrar before the latest time for the receipt of proxies as set out in note 5 3.
In the case of joint shareholders, the signature of any of them will suffice, will take precedence.
Members are advised to read the terms and conditions but the names of all joint holders should be shown, and the vote of the senior of use carefully.
Electronic communication facilities are available to all holder who tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be accepted shareholders and those who use them will not be disadvantaged.
to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holder s and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Please note the Company will not accept any communication that is found to Register of Members in respect of the joint holding.
A corporation may appoint more than one corporate representative.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held A corporations Form of Proxy must be exercised under the company seal, on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive if any, or signed by a duly authorised officer stating the officerscapacity.
communications from the Company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated Persons.
To be valid, the Form of Proxy must be signed, dated and lodged, together right under an agreement with the registered shareholder who holds the shares with the power of attorney or other written authority if any under which it on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a is signed or an office or notarially certified copy of such power or authority, proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated Persons do not have such a right, or do not no later than 48 hours before the time of the AGM or adjourned AGM at wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give which the person named on the form proposed to vote with the Companys instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
Registrar, Capita Registrars, at PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
If you have any questions about completing this form, please telephone Capita Registrars on Freephone 0800 280 2545 or on 44 20 7763 0041 if calling 6.
Completion and return of the Form of Proxy will not preclude you from from outside the UK.
attending and voting at the AGM in person if you wish.
This form is issued only to the addressee s and is specific to the unique 7.
The Vote Withheld option is provided to enable you to abstain on any designated account printed hereon.
This personalised form is not transferable particular Resolution.
It should, however, be noted that it is not a vote in between different account holders or uniquely designated accounts.
The law and will not be counted in the proportion of the votes For and Against Company and Capita Registrars Limited accept no liability for any instruction a Resolution.
that does not comply with these conditions.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Compass Group PLC Compass House Guildford Street Chertsey Surrey KT16 9BQ United Kingdom Focus in a Registered in England and Wales No.
