Corporate governance statement Board Committees Our commitment to compliance The Board is committed to the principles of good governance and supports the best practice guidelines contained within Board the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
This statement explains the Companys governance policies and practices Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee and sets out how the principles of the Code have been appliedduring the year ended 31 December 2012 the year.
The Board notes the amendments to the Code in September 2012 and is aware that these amendments will be effective for disclosures in the statements relating to the 2013 financial year and beyond.
The Board confirms that, save as where indicated andexplained below, the Company has complied with the Code throughout the year.
Board of Directors The membership of the Board as at 31 December 2012 is as set out on pages 30 and 31.
The Board comprises two Executive Directors, five Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Chairman, Greg Lock, was considered by the Board to be independent on appointment and Ian Lewis, John Ormerod and Brian McBride are all considered to be independent.
Brian McBride is the Senior Independent Director, following his appointment to the Board on 10 January 2011.
The Board acknowledges that the Company is not in compliance with paragraph B.
1.2 of the Code, which requires at least half Greg Lock of the Board, excluding the Chairman, to be independent Chairman of the Board Non-Executive Directors.
The founders of the Company, Philip Hulme and Peter Ogden, are Non-Executive Directors, but are not considered independent, due to their long tenure, substantial shareholding in the Company and their previously held executive positions in the Company.
As part of the Board evaluation process in 2012, the Board considered this matter specifically and, notwithstanding the guidelines outlined in the Code, it is clear that the contribution these two Directors make to the Board is highly valued by its other members.
Roles and responsibilities of the Board The Board is responsible for the management and performance of the Group.
To this effect, the Board plays a key role in setting the Companys strategic objectives and ensuring that sufficient resources are available to meet these aims.
The Board reviews the performance of senior management against the targets set for the delivery of agreed objectives.
Additionally, to further support the suitability of the drive for achievement, a framework of appropriate controls exists to ensure that risks are properly identified, effectively assessed and prudently managed.
Alongside formulating strategic objectives, monitoring performance and reviewing risk, theBoard defines those values and standards which ensure that the obligations of the Company to shareholders and other stakeholders are understood, their expectations are met and that transparent and honest dialogue with investors is maintained.
32 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate All Directors receive appropriate documentation in advance andtheir responsibilities are clearly defined in writing, of each Board and Committee meeting, including detailed reviewedannually and approved by the Board.
In summary, briefings on all matters, in order to enable them to discharge theChairmans role is to lead and manage the Board.
their duties effectively in considering a matter and reaching a TheChairman actively encourages contribution from all decision on it.
In addition, the Directors receive regular reports Directors and is responsible for ensuring that constructive on the Groups performance and matters of importance.
interaction is ongoing between the individual members of Seniormanagement regularly present the results and strategies theBoard.
The Chief Executive, in turn, is responsible for the of their respective business units to the Board and all Directors day-to-day management of the Groups operational activities are encouraged to meet with the senior management team, and for the proper execution of the strategy, as set by the thereby enabling the Board to remain familiar with the Board.
There is no dominant individual or group of individuals business, current activities and management of the Group.
on the Board influencing its collective decision-making The Board and its Committees are subject to annual abilityand the Board is comfortable that each of the performance reviews, which are led by the Chairman in Directorsmakes a valuable contribution to the Board.
the case of the Board, and the relevant chairman for each TheBoardbelieves that it oversees the Group effectively Committee.
Each chairman, assisted by advice from the andmaintains a proactive approach.
Company Secretary, decides the scope and format for the There is a documented schedule of matters which are reserved review.
This year, the Board evaluation was initiated with the for the Board and these matters include, amongst others, completion and return by each Director of an assessment theagreement of the primary strategy and budgets, as well questionnaire.
An analysis by the Chairman of the returned asthe approval of acquisitions and major capital expenditure.
questionnaires gave an indication of areas to be discussed This schedule is reviewed at least annually or more frequently further during individual meetings between each of the where required and during the year, was updated once.
Directors and the Chairman, which subsequently took place.
The information obtained from the questionnaire and Diversity subsequent meetings was summarised and together with The Board recognises the benefit that diverse skills, experience recommendations for improvement, included in a report for and points of view can bring to an organisation and how it may discussion and consideration by the Board as a whole.
assist the decision-making ability of the Board.
In this regard, Whilstthe Board was confident that it fulfilled its role effectively, the Board has considered the recommendations made in the recommendations for improvement related primarily to Davies Report, Women on Boards, published in February clarifying the strategic goals of the Company and engaging 2011, as well as the continuing debate on the matter and more directly with the Risk Assessment process.
Plans to whilstthe Board recognises the principles involved, incorporate these suggested improvements are underway.
appointments will primarily remain based on merit.
The Board recognises that the UK Corporate Governance It was further agreed that the Nomination Committee Code requires that an externally facilitated evaluation on its will actively seek candidates from the widest talent pool effectiveness be undertaken at least once every third year possible and will, in addition to taking into account the skills and in this regard the Company is currently in compliance and experience desired for an appointment, also have regard with the Code.
The Board continues to believe that its internal for the benefits of wider diversity, including gender.
However, evaluation process is both robust and thorough, and therefore a search for additional members of the Board will only be decided not to have an externally facilitated evaluation in 2012. launched when the Nomination Committee recommends this, The Board will keep the matter under review and an external following a review of the Boards composition, and therefore evaluation of the Board will be reconsidered for 2013. it was not considered appropriate to set any targets on diversity at this time.
The performance of the Chairman is assessed by the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Board effectiveness Director.
All of the Directors provided positive feedback to Upon joining the Board, all Directors receive a comprehensive the Senior Independent Director on the performance of induction programme, tailored to their specific requirements.
The Chairman additionally met with the NewDirectors receive an induction pack which contains Non-Executive Directors a number of times during 2012, information on the Groups business, its structure and operations, without the Executive Directors being present.
Board procedures, corporate governance related matters and details regarding Directors duties and responsibilities.
All new Directors are introduced to the Groups senior management team and major shareholders are invited to meet them as well.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Corporate governance statement continued Board support The Board is informed of any substantial changes in the The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board ownership of the Companys shares and the Companys on all corporate governance matters and for ensuring that all corporate brokers provide monthly reports on the ownership Board procedures are followed, applicable rules and regulations of the Companys shares.
In addition, meetings are held with are complied with and the Board is continually updated on major shareholders following both the full-year and half-year regulatory and governance matters.
All Directors have access results.
Normally, these meetings are with the Chief Executive to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The whole Board is briefed on the outcome of these meetings and any issues raised A procedure is in place to enable individual Directors to are discussed.
obtain independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, where they believe it is important to the furtherance In addition, once a year, the Companys top 15 shareholders of their duties.
are invited to individually meet with the Chairman and the Company Secretary to provide feedback on the Companys Board meetings management and raise other comments.
Specifically, at these Details of the Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings, the Company Secretary discusses the Companys meetings are provided on pages 31, 37, 40 and 41. corporate governance arrangements and invites feedback on Directors any areas of particular interest from the relevant shareholder.
The Company arranges insurance cover in respect of legal The information received is then used as part of the evaluation action against the Directors and to the extent allowed by of the Boards effectiveness.
legislation, the Company has issued an indemnity to each The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are Director against claims brought by third parties.
contactable at the Companys registered office to answer any Whilst the Companys Articles of Association require a Director queries that both institutional and individual shareholders may to be subject to election at the first AGM following his or her have.
All of the Directors aim to attend the AGM and value the appointment and thereafter every third year, the Board has opportunity of welcoming individual shareholders and other decided that, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance investors to communicate directly and address their questions.
Code, all Directors should be subject to re-election at the next In addition to mandatory information, a full, fair and balanced AGM on 17 May 2013 and at each AGM thereafter.
explanation of the business of all general meetings is sent in advance to shareholders.
Resolutions at the Companys Board Committees general meetings have been passed on a show of hands and The Board has delegated certain governance responsibilities proxies for and against each resolution together with any to three principal Board Committees: Audit Committee, abstentions are announced at such meetings, noted in the Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
The minutes, available on the Companys website and notified to Terms of Reference for each Committee can be obtained from the market.
com investors or from the Company Secretary, by request.
The composition of Internal controls each Committee appears on pages 37, 40 and 41 and directly The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining and following this report, are reports from the chairman of each reviewing the Groups systems of internal control and ensuring Committee setting out the main responsibilities of their that the controls are robust and effective in enabling risks to be respective Committees and their main activities during appropriately assessed and managed.
These reports may be found from pages 37 to 49. and controls are designed to manage risks, safeguard the Groups assets and ensure the reliability of information used Relations with shareholders both within the business and for publication.
Systems are The Board recognises and values the importance of designed to govern, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meeting the Companys shareholders to obtain their views achieve business objectives and can provide reasonable, but and has established a programme to communicate with not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the shareholders, based on the financial reporting calendar.
34 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of Management and specialists within the Finance Department the systems of internal control including financial, operational are responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance and compliance controls and risk management systems.
of financial records and processes that ensure financial Where weaknesses have been identified, safeguards are information is relevant, reliable, in accordance with the implemented and monitored.
applicable laws and regulations and distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
A review of the consolidation All systems of internal control are designed to identify, evaluate and financial statements is completed by management to and manage significant risks faced by the Group continuously.
ensure that the financial position and results of the Group The key elements of the Groups controls are as follows: are appropriately reflected.
All financial information published Responsibilities and authority structure by the Group is subject to review by the Audit Committee.
The Board has overall responsibility for making strategic Risk management decisions and there is a written schedule of matters reserved The Group Risk and Insurance Department monitors for the Board.
The Group Executive Committee meets on developments and oversees compliance with relevant aquarterly basis to discuss day-to-day operational matters, legislative and regulatory requirements.
A comprehensive inaddition to the separate Executive Committees which have risk management programme is developed and monitored been established for each of the Groups operations in the by the Group Risk Committee, the members of which include UK, France and Germany, and which also meet quarterly.
senior operational managers across the Group, the Finance TheExecutive Directors therefore discuss operational matters Director, the Group Risk Manager and the Group Internal with the senior management teams at a minimum of four Auditor.
The Group Risk Committee is chaired by the Groups separate meetings per quarter.
A flat reporting structure is Chief Executive.
Further information on the Companys risks maintained across the Group, with clearly defined can be found within the Risk report on pages 24 and 25. responsibilities for operational and financial management.
Through a programme of assessment, appropriate measures Control environment and systems of control are maintained.
Detailed business The Group operates defined authorisation and approval interruption contingency plans are in place for all key sites processes throughout all of its operations.
Access controls and these are regularly tested, in accordance with an exist where processes have been automated to ensure the agreed schedule.
Management information systems have been Capital expenditure and investments developed to identify risks and to enable assessment of the Procedures exist and authority levels are documented to effectiveness of the systems of internal control.
Accountability ensure that proposals for capital expenditure are properly is reinforced and further scrutiny of costs and revenues reviewed and authorised.
Cases for all investment projects encouraged, by the linking of staff incentives to customer are reviewed and approved at divisional level.
Major investment satisfaction and profitability.
projects are subject to approval by the Board, and Board input Planning and reporting processes and approval is sought for all merger and acquisition proposals.
A three-year strategic plan is prepared or updated by Centralised treasury function Senior Management annually and reviewed by the Board.
The Board has established and reviews regularly key A comprehensive budgetary process is completed annually treasurypolicies over matters such as counterparty exposure, and is subject to the approval of the Board.
Performance borrowing arrangements, and foreign exchange exposure is monitored through a rigorous and detailed financial and management.
All cash payments and receipts are managed by management reporting system, by which monthly results are centralised finance functions within each of the Group operating reviewed against budgets and agreed targets for the period companies.
Weekly reporting of cash balances to the Group which, additionally, are compared to historic data as deemed Finance Department ensures that the position of the Group, as appropriate, such as for the previous year.
The results and awhole, is properly controlled.
The management of liquidity and explanations for variances are regularly reported to the Board.
borrowing facilities for customer specific requirements, ongoing Appropriate action is taken where variances arise.
capital expenditure and working capital of the business are all undertaken by the Group Finance Director, with regular reporting to the Board.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Corporate governance statement continued Quality and integrity of staff Internal audit Rigorous recruitment procedures are in place to ensure The Group has an internal audit function led by the that new employees are of a suitable calibre.
Management Group Internal Auditor who reports to the Chairman continuously monitors training requirements and ongoing of the Audit Committee.
appraisal procedures are in place to ensure that required The Board, acting through the Audit Committee, has standards are maintained across the Group.
Resource directed the work of the Internal Audit Department towards requirements are identified by managers and reviewed by those areas of the business that are considered to be of the the relevant national Executive Committee.
The Audit Committee approves a rolling audit Business ethics programme, ensuring that all significant areas of the business The Company has a comprehensive Business Ethics Policy are independently reviewed over approximately a three-year in place and should an employee be found in breach of that period.
The programme and the findings of the reviews are policy, appropriate disciplinary action is applied.
Part of this continually assessed to ensure they take account of the latest policy is the Companys whistleblowing procedure where information and in particular, the results of the annual review of concerns of wrongdoing can be reported to the Group Internal internal control and any shifts in the focus areas of the various Auditor or the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit Department effective date of the new UK Bribery Act in 2011, the Company and the Groups risk management programme are reviewed has further developed its policy and procedures to actively annually by the Audit Committee.
prevent bribery within the Companys business, in addition Compliance with DTR to establishing a separate and specific Anti-bribery Code The information that is required by DTR 7.2.
6, information of Conduct, across the Group.
relating to the share capital of the Company, can be found within the Directors report from page 50.
By order of the Board Stephen Benad Company Secretary 11 March 2013 36 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
