Audit Committee report Responsibilities of the Audit Committee Attendance The key responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: Member Role record t 3FWJFX UIF BOOVBM BOE IBMG ZFBS OBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT 1.
John Ormerod Non-Executive Director 8 8 Chairman and any other formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance.
Ian Lewis Non-Executive Director 8 8 t 0WFSTFF UIF $PNQBOZ T SFMBUJPOTIJQ XJUI &SOTU :PVOH our external auditor.
Brian McBride Non-Executive Director 7 8 t 0WFSTFF UIF FGGFDUJWFOFTT PG UIF $PNQBOZ T SJTL management procedures and systems of internal control, including those relating to the prevention and detection of bribery and fraud.
t 0WFSTFF UIF FGGFDUJWFOFTT PG UIF $PNQBOZ T JOUFSOBM audit function, including approval of the annual internal audit plan.
t. POJUPS UIF QSPDFTT CZ XIJDI UIF TUBGG PG UIF Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in relation to financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee reports regularly to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
The full terms of reference for the Audit Committee are available on our website, www.
Membership and meetings All members of the Audit Committee are Independent Non-Executive Directors and are considered by the Board John Ormerod to be appropriately experienced for the Committee to perform Audit Committee effectively.
The Board considers the Chairman of the Audit Chairman Committee to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Details of the members of the Audit Committee and their attendance at the Committee meetings during the year are provided above.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, as well as theGroup Internal Audit Manager, Group Financial Controller and the external auditor routinely attend meetings of the Committee, at the Committees invitation.
The Committee also meets privately, at least annually, with the external auditor and the Group Internal Audit Manager and in 2012 private meetings were convened twice with the external auditor and once with the Group Internal Audit Manager.
In addition to the formal meetings, the Chairman of the Committee has regular informal discussions with the Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor.
He also receives directly the reports of internal audit as they are issued.
In addition, he receives feedback on the preparation and audit of the accounts as work progresses and as any significant judgements arise.
The Company Secretary is the secretary to the Committee.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Audit Committee report continued Main activities of the Committee during 2012 t 3FWJFXJOH UIF SFMBUJPOTIJQ XJUI UIF FYUFSOBM BVEJUPS The Audit Committee met eight times during 2012 and its TheCommittee reviewed the independence and work included: effectiveness of the external auditor.
This was achieved through a review of the published report of the Audit t 3FWJFXJOH UIF OBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT GPS CPUI UIF OTQFDUJPO 6OJU PO &SOTU :PVOH SFDFJWJOH GFFECBDL GSPN full-year and the 2012 half-year, as well as the interim Committee members and relevant management on the management statements.
The Committee considered work of the auditors in the form of responses to a written reports from our external auditor as appropriate.
The questionnaire, the results of which were then discussed at Committee reviewed the key judgements made in preparing asubsequent Committee meeting, and further by receiving the financial information, including adjustments to provisions reports from the auditors on their quality controls and and the application of our revenue recognition policies for independence policies.
Noting its policy on the provision of multi-year Managed Services contracts.
The Committee non-audit work provided by the external auditor, a summary gave particular focus to the accounting for new Managed of which is set out on page 39, the Committee monitored Services contracts in Germany, the combined effect of compliance with this policy by approving the audit fee and which was to reduce the 2012 profit expectation.
monitoring the level of non-audit work provided by the t. POJUPSJOH UIF SPVQ T SJTL NBOBHFNFOU BOE JOUFSOBM external auditor.
As a result, the Committee recommended control procedures.
Detailed enquiries were made with UP UIF #PBSE UIF SFBQQPJOUNFOU PG &SOTU :PVOH JO reports directly to the entire Board on the root causes The Committee has noted recent changes to the Code and remediation actions necessary following the contract andthe support by institutional shareholders and take-on problems in Germany.
The Committee continues theirrepresentative bodies for periodic audit tenders.
to monitor implementation of these actions and has TheCompany intends to implement the revision to the refocused internal audit efforts to consider in more detail Code in respect of audit tendering but will follow the controls across the Group in relation to new Managed transitional guidance to do this in a year which best fits Services contracts.
The Committee monitored the impact theworkload and risk profile of the business.
made by the newly implemented ERP system on the t 0WFSTFFJOH UIF JOUFSOBM BVEJU GVODUJPO JODMVEJOH B SFWJFX financial reporting capability of Computacenter within the of the departments resources, the internal audit reports UK.
The Committee received reports on the development and managements response.
The Committee particularly and implementation of the Groups policy and procedures focused on ensuring that the internal audit resource was to prevent bribery and corruption, its Business Ethics Policy most suitably applied given the most material risks being and the procedures in place for reporting and investigating faced by the Company.
In light of the Committees review, allegations of inappropriate behaviour.
The Committee it was decided that significant internal audit resource be reviewed controls in selected areas including treasury, redirected towards the monitoring, testing and reporting foreign exchange and counterparty risk, as well as tax of Services contract approval and take-on procedures compliance and tax risk.
Drawing on the work of internal across the Group.
The Committee has directed internal audit, the Committee assisted the Board with a review audit to undertake the regular and thorough reporting of of the effectiveness of internal controls.
its findings to the Committee and, ultimately, to the Board.
t 5IF $PNNJUUFF NFU XJUI UIF OBODJBM NBOBHFNFOU BOE external audit teams of the Groups German operations and also R. D. Trading Limited, a subsidiary company PGXIJDI &SOTU :PVOH BSF OPU UIF TUBUVUPSZ BVEJUPST Thesemeetings assisted the Committee to understand better the financial management and controls in these entities and the judgements involved in preparing their financial reports.
38 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 t 3FDFJWJOH USBJOJOH PO VQEBUFE SFHVMBUJPO BOE MFHJTMBUJPO which may affect the functioning, responsibilities and scopeof work of the Committee, such as the expansion ofits role arising from updates to the UK Corporate Governance Code and the accompanying Guidance onAudit Committees both published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012.
Additionally, the Company Secretary facilitates attendance by Committee members at external seminars on topics such as financial reporting, risk management and corporate governance where deemed appropriate.
Summary of policy for engagement of auditors to undertake non-audit work The external auditor is appointed primarily to report on theannualand interim financial statements.
The Committee places a high priority on ensuring that this independent role of reporting to shareholders is not compromised.
The Committee recognises, however, that there are occasions when the auditors are best placed to undertake other accounting, advisory and consultancy work in view of their knowledge of the Companys business, confidentiality and cost considerations.
The Committee has therefore established procedures to ensure that any non-audit work is only undertaken by the auditors where there is no risk of compromise to their independence.
To this end, the Committee has formally defined areas of work for which the auditors will be prohibited from engagement and areas where, subject to following the stipulated processes of authorisation and, where appropriate, competitive tendering, the auditors may be engaged.
The former areas of work include the preparation of accounting records and financial statements which will ultimately be subject to audit.
The latter areas of potential engagement may include acquisition due diligence and tax compliance and advice.
In all cases significant non-audit engagements are subject to prior approval by the Audit Committee or if approval is required between meetings, by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, the Committee does not expect the value of non-audit services to exceed the aggregate value of audit and audit related services in any financial year.
John Ormerod Chairman of the Audit Committee 11 March 2013 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
