| Overview | Business Review | Governance | Financial Statements | | Other Information 226323 RIT R&A pp80-pp93 06 03 2013 12:24 Page 87 Corporate Governance Report Additional Disclosures This second section of the Corporate Governance Board Balance and Independence report also forms part of the Directors Report and The Board is comprised of eight Directors of whom covers the additional disclosures required under the one is executive, one is non-independent and nonDisclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing executive and six are non-executive and independent.
Authority and the UK Corporate Governance This balance is intended to limit the scope for an Code 2010. individual, or a small group of individuals, to dominate the Boards decision-making.
More than half of the The Company has not complied with the following Board, excluding the Chairman, therefore comprise provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, as non-executive Directors determined by the Board to explained below.
2.1 Chairman has executive responsibilities The size and composition of the Board is considered B.
2.3 Non-executive directors are not appointed for to be suitable for the Companys size and business, specified terms whilst not being so large as to be unwieldy.
2.4 External search consultancies and open Appointments to the Board advertising are not used in the appointment of The Nominations Committee is responsible for the non-executive directors process of appointment of new Directors to the Board.
The Board, through the Nominations Chairman with Executive Responsibilities Committee, recognises the need to consider, on an Lord Rothschild is both Chairman of the Board and an ongoing basis, the appointment of new Directors to Executive Director.
The Board recognises that this is at bring fresh impetus, diversity and objectivity.
Such variance with the recommendations of the Code, appointments will be made on merit and ability to which are concerned with the potential problems of devote such time as is necessary to the position, as combining the running of the Board with the executive described in each Directors letter of appointment.
responsibility for the running of the Company.
The The Committee will also be mindful of succession Board believes that the current arrangements are planning and board balance and diversity, including on appropriate for a self-managed investment trust and grounds of gender, when recommending future are in the best interests of the Company and its appointments to the Board.
Neither open advertising shareholders on an ongoing basis.
The Company has nor external search consultancies have been used for in place a structure of permanent committees, non-executive Director appointments in the past, as described on pages 19 and 20, which are designed to the Board and Nominations Committee identify and devolve responsibility and control of certain key areas assess candidates on the basis of their potential of Board responsibility away from the Chairman.
The contribution to the Company.
Audit and Risk Committee, the Conflicts Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Valuation Non-executive Directors are not appointed for Committee are comprised entirely of independent specified terms.
As all Directors stand for re-election non-executive Directors.
Whilst the Nominations annually, neither the Nominations Committee nor the Committee is chaired by Lord Rothschild, independent Board consider that such contractual limitations non-executive Directors represent a majority of its would be in the best interests of the Company.
The Board is therefore of the view that the Company is not at risk from a concentration of power Appropriate training on listed company governance caused by the Chairman having executive and on the Company is provided to new Directors on responsibilities and believes that Lord Rothschild is their initial appointment.
well qualified for both roles.
As Chairman, Lord Rothschild is responsible for the leadership of the Board and its effectiveness in dealing with the matters reserved for its decision with adequate time for discussion.
This includes ensuring a culture of openness and debate and that Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings.
He is also responsible for ensuring effective communication with shareholders, making Directors aware of any concerns raised by shareholders and for facilitating the full and effective contribution of the non-executive Directors.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2012 87 226323 RIT R&A pp80-pp93 06 03 2013 12:24 Page 88 Corporate Governance Report Additional Disclosures Information and Professional Development Re-Election of Directors The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the The UK Corporate Governance Code incorporates a Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information requirement that all directors of FTSE 350 companies through the Company Secretary, JRCM.
This is should be put forward for re-election every year.
All effected through regular oral and written Directors of the Company stood for election or recommunication, including detailed papers provided for election at the Companys 2012 Annual General each of the Companys scheduled Board and Board Meeting and this will be repeated at the 2013 Annual committee meetings.
Such communication is intended General Meeting.
The Notice of Annual General to update Directors knowledge and familiarity with the Meeting is contained in a separate document circulated Company and its business, to enable them to fulfil their to shareholders, which may be viewed on the respective roles on the Board or its committees.
Directors have access to the Company Secretary for In accordance with the Code, the Board considered the advice and services.
The Chairman, the Nominations proposed re-elections of Mr Leigh-Pemberton and Committee and the Company Secretary have Mr Marks after particularly rigorous review, as both formulated a full, formal and tailored induction process have served as Directors beyond six years.
They remain for new Directors on their joining the Board.
independent and eligible for re-election for the following All Directors are entitled to take independent reasons: professional advice, including legal advice, at the They both remain senior, full time executives at Companys expense where they judge it necessary to financial services organisations unconnected to RIT discharge their responsibilities as Directors, up to a maximum of 25,000 per annum.
They do not receive any other remuneration from the Group other than their Directors fees The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring There are no relationships or circumstances likely to that Board procedures and applicable rules and affect their judgement regulations are complied with and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on corporateBoth continue to challenge objectively and robustly governance matters.
question management Performance Evaluation Following the performance evaluation of the Board The Code requires the Company to report on the described above, it is confirmed that the performance means by which performance evaluation of the of each Director standing for re-election continues to Board, its committees and its individual Directors has be satisfactory.
The re-election of each of the been conducted.
In the period to 31 December 2012, Directors standing at the forthcoming Annual General an external review by Armstrong Bonham Carter Meeting is therefore recommended by the Board.
ABC covering the processes, efficiency and Relations with Shareholders composition of each of the Board, its committees and The Board and JRCMs executive management the Directors was completed.
The summarised maintain a dialogue with both institutional responses were evaluated and considered by the shareholders and analysts and also respond promptly Board and separately by the non-executive Directors to other shareholders enquiries.
Shareholders are in a meeting without the Chairman or executive invited to ask questions at the Annual General management present.
The Group has no other Meeting and, as far as is practicable, the Chairmen of relationships with ABC, which is therefore the Boards committees and the other Directors will independent.
Under the Code, the evaluation of the be available to answer any questions from boards of FTSE 350 companies is required to be shareholders.
externally facilitated at least every three years.
Apart from when the Company is in a closed period, its net asset value is disclosed on a monthly basis to the London Stock Exchange to enable shareholders and analysts to follow the progress of the Company.
The Company also maintains a website at www.
com where shareholders have access to the latest monthly financial data released by the Company, together with historical information and financial statements.
88 Report and Accounts December 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc | Overview | Business Review | Governance | Financial Statements | | Other Information 226323 RIT R&A pp80-pp93 06 03 2013 12:24 Page 89 Corporate Governance Report Additional Disclosures Accountability and Audit Principal Risks and their Management Statement of Directors Responsibilities The principal risks facing RIT incorporate both The Directors are responsible for preparing the Report financial risks and operational risks.
The ongoing and Accounts, the Directors Remuneration Report process for identifying, evaluating and managing and the financial statements in accordance with these risks is the responsibility of the Board and the applicable law and regulations.
Audit and Risk Committee in conjunction with the relevant executives.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under As an investment company, RIT is exposed to that law the Directors have prepared the Group and financial risks inherent in its portfolio which are Parent Company financial statements in accordance primarily market-related and common to any portfolio with International Financial Reporting Standards predominantly invested in equities.
These financial IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under risks include market risk price risk, interest rate risk company law the Directors must not approve the and currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Details financial statements unless they are satisfied that of the overall approach to portfolio risk management, they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the specific categories of financial risks and their the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss management are set out in the Investment Review of the Group for that period.
In preparing these on page 9 and in note 28 on pages 57 to 72. financial statements, the Directors are required to: In relation to the financial risk management, detailed select suitable accounting policies and then apply portfolio valuations are prepared each week which them consistently: form the basis for the ongoing risk control decisions regarding asset allocation and exposure to market risk, make judgements and accounting estimates that credit risk and liquidity risk.
Detailed scenario are reasonable and prudent: modelling is undertaken to assess likely downside risks as well as assessing the underlying correlations state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the amongst the separate asset classes.
European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in In addition, the Board is responsible for monitoring the financial statements: the Companys strategy to ensure it is appropriate to meet the Companys Corporate Objective by prepare the financial statements on a going following the Companys Investment Policy.
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
Operational risks include those related to legal, regulatory, taxation and other areas where internal or The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate external factors could result in financial or accounting records that are sufficient to show and reputational loss.
explain the Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position As an investment trust, RITs operations are subject of the Company and the Group and enable them to to wide ranging regulations including listed company ensure that the financial statements and the rules, specific and general tax legislation and statute.
Directors' Remuneration Report comply with the The Report & Accounts are prepared in accordance Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group with IFRS and, where consistent, the AIC SORP.
RIT, financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
or its relevant subsidiaries, are subject to both They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets domestic and international regulation, including by the of the Company and the Group and hence for taking Financial Services Authority and the European Union.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of Failure to act in accordance with these regulations fraud and other irregularities.
could cause fines, censure or otherwise losses.
The executive management of JRCM, under the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance supervision of the Board and the Audit & Risk and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in Committee, is responsible for the day-to-day the United Kingdom governing the preparation and compliance with the relevant rules.
It is also tasked dissemination of financial statements may differ from with identifying emerging risks in this area and legislation in other jurisdictions.
ensuring an appropriate response is in place.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2012 89 226323 RIT R&A pp80-pp93 06 03 2013 12:24 Page 90 Corporate Governance Report Additional Disclosures Principal Risks and their Management continued The Group also monitors the compliance of external The Group has established procedures to ensure its managers with the terms of their investment ability to continue operating following a disruption management agreements as well as reviewing their caused by an event such as a fire, act of terrorism or internal control procedures.
similar at its St Jamess Place offices.
The Groups The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the key Business Continuity Plan ensures that all data is systems of internal control in operation during the stored at remote locations and also provides financial period and up to the date of this report alternative accommodation to key staff to minimise through the monitoring processes set out below.
any disruption to the business.
During the course of its review of the system of The Audit and Risk Committee, working with the internal controls, the Audit and Risk Committee has Chief Risk Officer, is responsible for ensuring that an not identified or been appraised of any failings or appropriate system of risk management and internal weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
This is described in more detail on Control Environment page 19.
As part of this approach, an internal audit of The Group has established an organisational structure selected areas is undertaken on an annual basis.
which allocates defined levels of authority and Where required improvements are identified, reporting responsibility in respect of the operational, timetables are agreed for implementing these and compliance, financial and taxation affairs of the progress is monitored against these timetables.
Group to a small number of senior executives who Further information is set out below.
meet regularly to discuss matters of importance to Internal Control the Group.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the Groups Social, Environmental and Ethical SEE system of internal control although it has delegated Responsibility the supervision of the system to the Audit and Risk The Board is responsible for the SEE policy of the Committee.
Such systems are designed to manage, Group.
It has delegated the supervision of SEE rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve related matters to the Audit and Risk Committee.
business objectives and, as such, can provide only Day-to-day responsibility resides with JRCMs reasonable and not absolute assurance against any executive management.
The Company's Corporate material misstatement or loss.
The Board has Objective and Investment Policy does not incorporate delegated to JRCMs executive management the SEE requirements or restrictions.
As an investment implementation of the system of internal control trust, the Board considers that the Companys direct within an established framework applicable SEE impact is low.
The Company monitors and has throughout the Group.
The system of internal control taken steps to reduce its impact on the environment, is reviewed at least annually.
The Board considers including the monitoring and reduction of emissions that the necessary procedures have been from its premises and the recycling of materials.
The implemented to satisfy the requirements of the Group operates an ethics policy which applies to Financial Services Authority with respect to the executive management and staff.
Turnbull guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued in Financial Reporting and Control Procedures September 1999 and revised in 2005.
The Group operates a budgeting system.
An annual budget is prepared by JRCM executive management As part of the review of the control environment, an and approved by the Board.
Monthly actual results are internal audit of selected areas is undertaken.
This is reported against budget and reviewed regularly by performed on an annual basis and follows a rolling JRCMs executive management.
The precise scope and depth of the remit will continue to be reviewed and, The Group maintains guidelines in relation to the key as appropriate, expanded.
Clear and direct reporting controls exercised over its financial and operating lines between those conducting the reviews and the affairs.
Duties are segregated to an extent Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee have been commensurate with the size of the Groups established to maximise the independence of the organisation and business environment.
function from JRCMs executive management.
90 Report and Accounts December 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc | Overview | Business Review | Governance | Financial Statements | | Other Information 226323 RIT R&A pp80-pp93 06 03 2013 12:24 Page 91 Corporate Governance Report Additional Disclosures Statement on Going Concern The Directors have assessed the ability of the Company and the Group to continue as a going concern with reference to guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
The Company and the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3.
Further details of the financial position of the Company and the Group can be found in the Investment Review and the Investment Portfolio on pages 5 to 11.
In addition, note 28 to the financial statements includes details of the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
As at the period end the Group had cash at bank of 66.4 million, money market funds of 22.4 million and government bonds of 88.4 million.
In addition to these liquidity balances the Group held quoted equities of 1,117.4 million.
The Groups borrowings totalled 147.8 million under a facility that expires in December 2013.
The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable management arrangements in place to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2012 91
