226323 RIT R&A pp18-pp26 06 03 2013 12:20 Page 18 Corporate Governance Report Introduction The Board is responsible for setting the Companys The Directors present the Companys Corporate strategic aims for its long-term success and ensuring Governance Report.
The biographies of the Directors that the necessary resources are in place to these and executive management on the pages immediately ends, delegating as appropriate to the executive preceding this Report demonstrate a strength of management of J Rothschild Capital Management experience in the areas required to oversee and Limited JRCM.
In general terms, the executive implement the Companys strategic, investment and management of JRCM is responsible for the operational aims.
Many of the Directors hold or have implementation and execution of the Boards strategic held senior director positions at prominent investment directives relating to investment management, banks, asset management companies or audit firms governance and administration.
specialising in the asset management industry.
In The Board met formally twice in the nine month period addition, there are Directors with considerable ended 31 December 2012.
The attendance of the experience beyond these areas, including Government Directors holding office on 31 December 2012 was as and general commercial organisations.
follows: This report is split into two sections.
of meetings describes the Companys principal governance Member invited to attend attended bodies, their composition, purpose and operation.
The Lord Rothschild 2 2 second section starting on page 87 covers the other Michael Marks 2 2 aspects of the Companys governance prescribed John Cornish 2 2 under the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Lord Douro 2 2 Code to which the Company is subject and which Jean Laurent-Bellue 2 2 may be viewed at www.
The Directors James Leigh-Pemberton 2 2 believe that the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the period, except Lord Myners 2 2 as described on pages 87 and 88.
Sandra Robertson 2 1 The Board of Directors The non-executive Directors participate in discussions The Company is an investment trust managed by its regarding the Companys strategy and performance.
Board of Directors the Board currently comprising They also meet once a year without executive eight Directors.
Of these, the Chairman is executive, management present to consider the conclusions of Jean Laurent-Bellue is non-independent and nonthe annual Board evaluation exercise and the executive and the remaining six are independent nonperformance of the Chairman.
In addition, there are five permanent Board The Board has a formal Schedule of Reserved committees a majority of whose membership is Matters, which may be viewed on the Companys comprised of independent non-executive Directors.
This is designed to The composition of these committees is set out prescribe the responsibilities of the Board in below.
Each committee has its own Terms of managing the Companys business within a Reference which may be viewed on the Companys framework of prudent and effective controls to website.
facilitate assessment and management of risk.
18 Report and Accounts December 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc | Overview | Business Review | | Financial Statements | Other Information | Governance 226323 RIT R&A pp18-pp26 06 03 2013 12:20 Page 19 Corporate Governance Report Committee Membership Audit and Risk Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee John Cornish Chairman Lord Rothschild Chairman Lord Douro Chairman James Leigh-Pemberton Lord Douro John Cornish Lord Myners James Leigh-Pemberton James Leigh-Pemberton Michael Marks Michael Marks Conflicts Committee Valuation Committee Lord Douro Chairman John Cornish Chairman John Cornish Lord Myners James Leigh-Pemberton Sandra Robertson Michael Marks The Audit and Risk Committee auditors objectivity in providing such services to The Audit and Risk Committee comprises three nonensure that the independence of the audit team from executive Directors, all of whom are independent of the Group is not compromised.
It is chaired by John Cornish, a former provided by  LLP in the partner at Deloitte LLP.
John is the Chairman of the period ended 31 December 2012 were primarily in audit committees of three other public companies, relation to corporate advisory and taxation services.
and is considered by the Board to have appropriate Further information is contained in note 4 of the financial experience.
The remit of the Audit and Risk Committee The Committee is responsible for monitoring the incorporates its focus on the identification and Groups whistleblowing procedures for staff to follow management of risk covering principally operational, in the event that they might have any concerns about financial, reputational and regulatory matters across possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting the Group.
The procedures in place provide for staff to have direct recourse to the Audit and Risk As part of this role the Committee monitors the risk Committee, through its Chairman.
profile and tolerance acceptable to the Company and set by the Board in delivering the business strategy, Further information relating to the operation of the and ensures this is communicated appropriately within Committee and its role in risk management is the Company.
Members of the Committee receive included on page 89. monthly reports detailing investment exposure as well The Committee met formally on three occasions in the as currency and liquidity positioning.
nine month period ended 31 December 2012 with The Committee meets at least twice each year to attendance as follows: review the Groups interim and annual financial No.
of meetings Member invited to attend attended statements, to consider reports thereon from the John Cornish 3 3 external audit process and to review any issues arising with JRCMs executive management.
James Leigh-Pemberton 3 3 Lord Myners 3 3 The Committee also meets on at least two separate and dedicated occasions to review the effectiveness of the The Conflicts Committee Groups system of internal controls by reference to The Conflicts Committee meets at least once a year on reports prepared and compiled by management and the a formal, scheduled basis and on other occasions as Groups internal audit function.
The remaining matters in and when required.
The Committee is chaired by Lord the Audit and Risk Committees Terms of Reference are Douro.
The Committees principal responsibilities cover considered as and when necessary.
proposed co-investment or related party transactions The Committee monitors the adequacy of the Groups and the approval of cost sharing arrangements with accounting policies and financial reporting, which are parties related to Lord Rothschild or any other Director discussed with the external auditors, as described in note 30.
The Committee is Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLP.
The Committee also responsible for monitoring and pre-approving any considers the external auditors independence, arrangements entered into between the Group and any objectivity and the cost effectiveness of the audit of its Directors, or their connected interests, to ensure process.
The level of non-audit services provided to that any conflicts of interest are avoided or prethe Group by the auditors is monitored as is the approved and managed appropriately.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2012 19 226323 RIT R&A pp18-pp26 06 03 2013 12:20 Page 20 Corporate Governance Report The attendance record of the members in the nine The Committee met formally on two occasions in month period to 31 December 2012 was as follows: relation to the nine month period ended 31 December 2012, with attendance as follows: No.
of meetings Member invited to attend attended No.
of meetings Member invited to attend attended Lord Douro 1 1 John Cornish 1 1 John Cornish 2 2 Sandra Robertson 2 2 James Leigh-Pemberton 1 1 Lord Myners 2 2 Michael Marks 1 1 The Remuneration Committee The Nominations Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises four nonThe Nominations Committee comprises four executive Directors, all of whom are independent.
The Directors, three of whom are independent and nonCommittee is chaired by Lord Douro.
The Committee executive and the fourth is Lord Rothschild, who is meets at least once each year on a formal basis, and the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee on additional occasions as may be required.
Its meets at least once a year on a formal basis, and on primary responsibilities include the creation and additional occasions as required.
Its remit, as set out maintenance of remuneration policies designed to in its Terms of Reference, includes leading the attract, retain and motivate Directors and executive process for appointments to the Board, to ensure that management appropriately.
appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria and to review the suitability of those The Committee reviews the total remuneration Directors who are standing for re-election.
The packages including pension arrangements, of the Committee also monitors the composition of the Chairman and executive management, ensuring an Board on an ongoing basis, with a view to succession appropriate balance between fixed and performanceplanning, Board diversity and the maintenance of an related elements.
This exercise is conducted in part by appropriate balance of skills and experience within reference to other companies of similar size and the Company and on the Board.
Executive management provides information to the Committee, although individuals are Appropriate Board diversity in all its forms is important not present when their own remuneration is to ensure the optimum range of perspective in considered.
The Remuneration Committee receives the decision making.
The policy of the Nominations advice of New Bridge Street NBS, the remuneration Committee in refreshing the composition of the Board consultancy.
The Group has no other relationships with is to consider Board diversity, including on grounds of NBS, which is therefore independent.
gender, as central to its Director selection process, alongside the relevance and appropriateness of The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the candidates experience.
fees paid to the non-executive Directors, by reference The attendance record of the members of the to the roles and time commitment of each individual Committee in the nine month period to concerned, although the final determination of the 31 December 2012 was as follows: fees payable to non-executive Directors is a matter for the Board of Directors as a whole.
of meetings Member invited to attend attended The attendance of the members at the two meetings of the Committee in the nine month period to Lord Rothschild 2 2 31 December 2012 was as follows: Lord Douro 2 2 James Leigh-Pemberton 2 1 No.
of meetings Member invited to attend attended Michael Marks 2 2 Lord Douro 2 2 The Valuation Committee John Cornish 2 2 At 31 December 2012, the Valuation Committee James Leigh-Pemberton 2 2 comprised three Directors, all of whom were Michael Marks 2 2 independent non-executive Directors.
The Committee is chaired by John Cornish.
The Committee meets at least The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee twice each year and additionally as may be required.
Its presents the Directors Remuneration Report on pages principal responsibility is to review the Companys 21 to 26. unquoted investments to ensure they are presented in Additional disclosures relating to the Groups corporate the annual and half-yearly accounts at fair value.
governance arrangements are contained in the second part of this Report, which starts on page 87.
20 Report and Accounts December 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc
