In this section, we explain how corporate governance works in SEGRO.
Good corporate governance is vital to support the GOVERNANCE delivery of our strategic priorities and is central to all aspects of our business.
It is embedded in the way we manage our REPORT business and is designed to create an environment where matters can be considered and decisions made at the appropriate level in the organisation.
Throughout 2012, the Company complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and this report sets out how we applied its principles to the running of the business.
A number of changes have been made to the Code that take effect for SEGRO in the 2013 financial year, however we have complied with the majority of these new provisions this year.
Board composition is critical in ensuring effective and value-adding corporate governance.
Appropriate succession plans are in place for the Board and key management roles.
Andrew Palmer and Chris Peacock will retire at the 2013 AGM, both having served nine years on the Board.
In October, Christopher Fisher joined the Board and Margaret Ford joined us in January this year.
At the 2013 AGM, Margaret Ford will succeed Andrew Palmer as the Senior Independent Director and Chris Peacock as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Since January 2013, the Board has comprised 10 Directors, including myself, which will reduce to eight following the AGM.
The Board recognises the benets of diversity in its broadest sense and the value this brings to the organisation in terms of skills, knowledge and experience.
At SEGRO we have a good record of promoting and appointing women to senior roles.
CHAIRMANS Women hold four out of the 15 positions on our senior management team.
The Board has discussed the recommendations of the Davies Report on Women on Boards.
INTRODUCTION We agree with the conclusion that greater efforts should be made to improve the gender balance of corporate boards, but also that quotas are not the preferred option.
We will continue As a Board we are responsible to our to support initiatives to ensure that the pipeline of suitable women candidates for Board positions is strengthened and, shareholders, customers and other in addition, I participate in the FTSE100 Cross-Company stakeholders for the performance of the Mentoring Programme.
The Companys diversity policy is available on our website.
Company and for promoting its longterm success.
The Board supports fully NIGEL RICH CBE the strategy that our Chief Executive, CHAIRMAN David Sleath, and his executive team are implementing to improve shareholder returns through Disciplined Capital Allocation and Operational Excellence.
NIGEL RICH 046 SEGRO ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2012 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTORS The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Group.
The Executive Directors are directly responsible for LEADERSHIP business operations, while the Non-Executive Directors are responsible for bringing independent judgement and scrutiny to the decisions taken by the Board.
ROLE OF THE BOARD The division of responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief The Board is responsible for creating and delivering sustainable Executive and Senior Independent Director are set out in shareholder value.
Individually, the Directors act in a way that writing and approved by the Board.
The Chairman is primarily they consider will promote the long-term success of the responsible for the leadership and effective working of the Company for the benefit of shareholders, with regard to the Board.
He ensures a constructive relationship exists between interests of the Groups employees, the impact of the business the Executive and the Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief on the community as well as on the environment and on the Executive is responsible for the leadership of the Group interests of other stakeholders.
and operational and strategic performance.
The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding board to the BOARD MEMBERSHIP Chairman and serves as an intermediary for other Directors Details of the Directors and their full biographical details, when necessary.
including the skills and experience they each bring to the Board, are on pages 44 and 45.
The Board comprises a ATTENDANCE Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and seven All Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting independent Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are equally and meetings of Board Committees of which they are responsible for the proper stewardship and leadership of the members.
During 2012, there were nine scheduled Board Group.
Taking into account the provisions of the Code, each meetings and one ad-hoc meeting.
Attendance at Board of the Non-Executive Directors is considered independent in and Board Committee meetings during 2012 is set out character and judgement.
The Chairman was considered in the table below.
independent on appointment and the Board still considers him to be so.
Further information is provided in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 52 to 53.
TABLE OF ATTENDANCE AUDIT NOMINATION REMUNERATION NAME BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Nigel Rich 10 N A 5 N A 1 Christopher Fisher 2112 Andrew Palmer 10555 Chris Peacock 9 N A 5 4 Justin Read 10 N A N A N A 2 Mark Robertshaw 10 N A 2 5 David Sleath 10 N A 5 N A Doug Webb 10 5 N A N A 3 Thom Wernink 10 5 2 N A Total number of meetings 10555 1 Joined the Company and appointed to the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 1 October 2012 and the Nomination Committee on 17 December 2012.
2 Appointed to the Nomination Committee on 17 May 2012.
3 Stepped down from the Nomination Committee on 17 May 2012. www.
com 047 GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED THE WORK OF THE COMMITTEE BOARD STRUCTURE ROLE OF THE BOARD The Board has delegated a number of its responsibilities to the The principal role of the Board is to ensure that the Groups Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, details of strategy creates and sustains long-term value for its investors.
The Terms of Reference of these Details of how the Company generates and preserves value are Committees can be found at www.
com in the Investors set out in the Chief Executives Review on pages 10 to 16.
The Company ensures that these Committees are Board retains responsibility for the approval of certain matters provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
which include Group strategy, the annual budget, the dividend Responsibility for all operational matters, including the policy, major investments and disposals and financial structure.
implementation of Group strategy, is delegated to the Chief There is an approved Schedule of Matters Reserved for Executive.
The Executive Committee supports the Chief Decision by the Board.
Executive in the delivery of strategy, establishing financial and The day-to-day running of the Group is delegated by the operating targets and monitoring performance against those Board to the Chief Executive who is supported by the targets.
The Committee oversees the processes for identifying Executive Committee.
At each meeting, the Committee reviews financial and operational performance, considers any health KEY ACTIVITIES OF THE BOARD DURING 2012 and safety incidents, carries out a pre-approval review of items During the year, in addition to its routine business, matters requiring Board approval and acts as a primary approval considered by the Board included: channel for matters below Board-approval level.
The Group annual strategy review, including a review of progress on Finance Director, the Chief Operating officer, the Chief implementation of plans announced in November 2011, Investment officer and the Group HR Director are also dividend strategy and leverage targets: members of the Executive Committee.
The Executive approval of the Medium-Term Financial Plan and setting Committee has its own Terms of Reference and meets monthly.
of medium-term objectives: The Executive Committee delegates some of its responsibilities a review of medium-term funding strategy and approval to a further four Committees: of the bond buyback: the Investment Committee: review of risks identied and resulting action plans, and the Operations Committee: consideration of risk as it relates to strategy: the Risk Management Committee: and reviewing asset plans for holdings in Vimercate, Brussels, the Treasury Committee.
Munich, Frankfurt and Berlin: approval of a number of disposals, including assets in These Committees have their own Terms of Reference and Crawley, Farnborough, the North West, the South West membership includes at least one member of the Executive and the Midlands in the UK, and in Munich: Committee.
approval of the acquisition of assets from Foncire Europe Logistique in France: a review of the Schedule of Matters Reserved for Decision by the Board, including the parameters for the approval of investments: a review of the UK pension schemes: consideration of the Groups approach to community engagement and charitable giving: a review of the results of the Group-wide customer satisfaction survey: the appointment of CBRE Ltd as the Companys valuer and Equiniti Ltd as the Companys registrar: rolling reviews of the performance of investments and developments over the previous three years: consideration of the outlook for the property market and the economic climate, particularly in Continental Europe: a review of the impact of the Neckermann administration and future options for the site: a review of the Terms of Reference of the Board Committees: the appointment of two Non-Executive Directors: consideration of the health and safety strategy and significant matters that have arisen during the year: consideration of the implications for the Group of the UK aviation consultation exercise: and an update on corporate regulatory changes.
048 SEGRO ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2012 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BOARD AND COMMITTEE STRUCTURE, MEMBERSHIP AND ROLES BOARD NIGEL RICH CHAIRMAN TWO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SEVEN INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS to reduce to five following the AGM Creating and delivering sustainable shareholder value BOARD COMMITTEE OVERSIGHT AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE FIVE INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE AND FIVE INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS to reduce to four FIVE INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS to reduce to three following following the AGM DIRECTORS to reduce to three the AGM following the AGM Monitors the integrity of the Groups Ensures that the Board and the senior Determines the reward strategy for financial statements and the effectiveness management team have the appropriate the Executive Directors to align their of the external and internal auditors skills, knowledge and experience to interests with those of shareholders operate effectively and to deliver Oversees the risk management process the strategy and control environment MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES EXECUTIVE INVESTMENT OPERATIONS RISK TREASURY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE FIVE MEMBERS FOUR EXECUTIVE ONE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE TWO EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE TWO EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBERS MEMBER, FIVE COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND BUSINESS UNIT MEMBERS AND THREE SENIOR DIRECTORS AND THREE SENIOR MANAGERS FINANCE DIRECTOR MANAGERS OPERATIONS To assist the Chief To manage the To assist the Chief To establish, monitor To monitor Executive with the allocation of capital Operating officer to and report to the compliance with the development and across the Group and manage the Board and Audit Groups Treasury implementation of to oversee all major operations of the Committee on the Policies and the Group Group strategy, the investment and Group and to Groups principal risks solvency position management of the divestment decisions discharge the and approach to risk business and the on behalf of the responsibilities management discharge of Executive Committee delegated to him by responsibilities the Executive delegated by the Board Committee www.
com 049 GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS In accordance with the Code, all Directors, save for the two retiring Non-Executive Directors, will submit themselves for ACCOUNTABILITY election or re-election at the 2013 AGM.
The Nomination Committee Report on pages 52 to 53 provides more information about the Directors appraisal process, while their RISK MANAGEMENT skills and expertise are set out in the Directors biographies on The Board recognises that effective risk management is central pages 44 to 45. to the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives and the long-term sustainable growth of the business.
The Board has EVALUATION overall accountability for ensuring that risk is effectively The Board has a policy of undertaking externally facilitated managed across the Group, and the Audit Committee reviews evaluations every three years and internal reviews in the the effectiveness of the risk management process on behalf of intervening two years.
External evaluations took place in the Board.
Further details of the risk management process and 2008 and 2011.
In 2012, the Chairman, with the assistance the Groups principal risks and uncertainties are set out of the Company Secretary, led the internal review process.
Questionnaires for the Board and the three Board Committees were prepared that encouraged the Directors to provide CONFLICTS written comments on a number of themes.
The review Directors are required to submit any potential or actual confirmed that the Board was operating effectively, the quality conicts of interest they may have with the Company to of Board dialogue was good and that there was a climate of the Board for approval.
trust and transparency together with a strong level of challenge.
The Executive Directors were seen as being open and INDUCTION AND TRAINING engaged, while the Non-Executive Directors brought a range Newly appointed Directors participate in a structured and of skills and experience, ensuring constructive debate.
The tailored induction programme and on appointment receive Directors continue to derive value from site visits and, for a comprehensive pack of information on the Group and its Non-Executive Directors, tours and meetings with employees governance structure.
Ongoing training is available for all below Board level help them to remain engaged with the Directors.
Senior managers are regularly invited to present business.
Following the evaluation it was agreed that the Board to the Board on business matters.
During 2012, these should receive a presentation on the risk management review presentations included briengs on the investment and asset which was recently completed.
The Non-Executive Directors disposal programme, asset plans and treasury matters.
The also agreed to meet, in the absence of the Executive Directors, Companys advisors, including corporate brokers, real estate twice a year.
specialists, shareholders and economic advisors, attended The performance of the three Board Committees was also Board meetings or dinners during the year to present on reviewed and it was noted that each was performing effectively.
particular matters or to provide market updates.
As part of the annual appraisal process, the Senior Independent During 2012, Board meetings were held in London, Slough Director meets with the Non-Executive Directors to discuss and Paris.
The Board met with management teams the performance of the Chairman.
The Chairman, with the in these locations and had tours of the Groups property Non-Executive Directors, also conducted a performance portfolios in Slough and Paris.
evaluation of the Chief Executive and concluded that he To enhance his understanding of the day-to-day issues facing continued to perform effectively and had made significant the Group, the Chairman has regular lunches with employees progress in implementing the strategy announced in 2011. across the Group, varying in seniority, from a cross-section The Company maintains directors and ofcers liability of the business.
insurance, which gives appropriate cover for legal action Analysts reports and sector updates are circulated periodically brought against its Directors.
and Directors receive weekly press cuttings.
Between meetings, the Chief Executive and the Chairman regularly communicate with the Directors to update them on recent developments.
Individually, Directors are encouraged to attend seminars and conferences associated with their areas of expertise or responsibility.
Throughout the year, the Chairman met with the NonExecutive Directors to discuss business matters.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary are always available for the Directors to discuss any issues concerning Board meetings, or other matters.
Following the recent Board appointments, the Chairman is in the process of meeting with the Directors to discuss their respective contribution and training needs.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring compliance with Board procedures.
Directors have the right to seek independent professional advice at the Companys reasonable expense.
050 SEGRO ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2012 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF THE AGM The AGM is an opportunity for the Directors to communicate with and answer questions from shareholders.
The whole of ENGAGEMENT WITH the Board is available to meet informally with shareholders before and after the meeting.
Prior to the formal business of SHAREHOLDERS the meeting, the Chief Executive makes a presentation on the progress and performance of the Group.
The Notice of AGM is dispatched to shareholders at least The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director are 20 working days before the meeting.
The Company proposes the Companys principal spokesmen with investors, fund separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue, with managers, analysts, the press and other interested parties.
The Board believes that this voting The Board is committed to providing investors with regular process is more democratic than a show of hands, since all announcements of significant events affecting the Group, shares voted at the meeting, as well as proxy votes lodged including its business strategy and financial performance.
before the meeting, are counted.
For each resolution, The Company organises a dedicated investor relations shareholders will have the option to vote either for or against programme with institutional investors, which includes formal a resolution or to withhold their vote.
Following the meeting, events during the year along with a regular series of one-to-one the results of votes lodged for and against each resolution are and group meetings.
These events also provide an opportunity announced to the London Stock Exchange and displayed on for shareholders to meet members of the senior management the Companys website.
Examples of these events during 2012 were: the fulland half-year results announcements: the AGM: the interim management statements: an investor tour of assets in Paris: and a tour of assets around Heathrow airport.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director also attend investor conferences to present, meet investors and participate in panel discussions.
In 2012, the Chief Executive and or Group Finance Director attended such conferences in the UK, USA and the Netherlands.
The one-to-one and group meetings provide additional context around the Groups business strategy and financial performance.
During 2012, approximately 130 meetings took place with 228 existing and potential institutional investors.
Of these meetings, the Chief Executive attended 104 meetings, and the Group Finance Director, 117 meetings.
Additionally, around 80 finance professionals regularly join the conference calls that are arranged following the quarterly financial results announcements.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available to shareholders to discuss governance and strategy or any concerns they may have which contact through the usual channels has failed to resolve or is otherwise inappropriate.
In March 2012, the Chairman wrote to 12 major shareholders and offered a meeting with himself and the Senior Independent Director.
Meetings were subsequently held with five of these shareholders.
All Directors are available for meetings with shareholders if requested.
The Chairman regularly attends the financial results presentations.
The Board is kept informed about any discussions with shareholders, and the Directors are regularly provided with analysts reports and feedback from the Companys corporate brokers.
com, provides shareholders with comprehensive information on the Groups recent business activities and financial developments, and they can view webcasts, press releases and recordings of interviews with the Chief Executive.
