ACTIVITIES In early 2012, the Committee discussed the preferred size of NOMINATION the Board and also the benets that increased gender diversity can bring.
This was in preparation for the retirement of three COMMITTEE Non-Executive Directors, including the Senior Independent Director and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, REPORT who, within the following 18 months, will have served approximately nine years on the Board.
The Committee has assessed the specic skills, attributes and experience that would be required of the replacements of these Non-Executive Directors given the composition of the Board as a whole.
Descriptions of the roles and the capabilities required were prepared.
The Committee undertook a review of executive search rms and appointed JCA Group to conduct the search for a Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
JCA Group conducted the Board evaluation in 2011, otherwise the organisation does not have any other connection with the Company.
The remit to JCA Group was to review candidates from a wide range of backgrounds to ensure that the best candidates, with the most appropriate skills, were selected.
The Committee reviewed the proposed list of candidates and appointed a panel of Directors to conduct the interview process, following which a recommendation was made to the Board.
The Company was pleased to announce in September the appointments of Christopher Fisher and Margaret Ford.
During 2013, the Committee will start the process to identify a successor to the third of the retiring Non-Executive Directors, Thom Wernink, who will have served nine years as a Director in 2014.
COMMITTEE The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment, that CHAIRMANS set out their duties and anticipated time commitment to the Company, and are appointed for three-year terms.
Mark INTRODUCTION Robertshaw and Doug Webb will each complete their first three-year term during the first half of 2013.
The Committee, having considered their performance, concluded that they continue to be effective and both demonstrate commitment to The Nomination Committee has a key their roles.
The Board has approved the recommendation for role in ensuring that the Board and their appointments to be extended for a further three-year term, subject to re-election at the AGM.
The tenure of each of the senior management team have the Non-Executive Directors is shown in the chart on page 53. the appropriate skills, knowledge and Save for Andrew Palmer and Chris Peacock, each of the experience to operate effectively and Directors will be proposed for election or re-election at the to deliver our strategy.
Following the appraisal process set out below, the Committee concluded that each of the Directors seeking The Nomination Committee is responsible for making election or re-election continues to make an effective contribution to the Board.
recommendations for new appointments to the Board and ensuring that the process is formal, rigorous and transparent.
I chair the Nomination Committee, and during the year the other members were Andrew Palmer, Chris Peacock, Mark Robertshaw and David Sleath.
Christopher Fisher joined the Committee on 17 December 2012 and Margaret Ford became a member on her appointment to the Board in January 2013.
During 2012, the main focus of the Committee was the selection of two Non-Executive Directors and succession planning.
NIGEL RICH CBE CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Non-Executive Directors met with the Chief Executive and the Group HR Director to consider succession planning and talent management for the Companys senior executives below Board level.
NIGEL RICH 052 SEGRO ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2012 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANDREW PALMER CHRIS PEACOCK THOM WERNINK NIGEL RICH DOUG WEBB MARK ROBERTSHAW CHRISTOPHER FISHER MARGARET FORD 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS YEARS OF SERVICE APPRAISAL PROCESS DIRECTOR APPRAISAL PROCESS Nigel Rich Senior Independent Director led a review with the other Non-Executive Directors Christopher Fisher No appraisal as newly appointed Margaret Ford No appraisal as newly appointed Andrew Palmer No appraisal as retiring at the 2013 AGM Chris Peacock No appraisal as retiring at the 2013 AGM Justin Read Appraisal by the Chief Executive Mark Robertshaw Committee reviewed performance and proposed re-appointment for a second three-year term David Sleath Chairman led a review with the other Non-Executive Directors Doug Webb Committee reviewed performance and proposed re-appointment for a second three-year term Thom Wernink Committee reviewed performance The Non-Executive Directors met with the Chief Executive and the Group HR Director to consider succession planning and talent management for the Companys senior executives below Board level.
The Committee recognises the benets of diversity throughout the workforce and is supportive of the Companys talent management programme, which applies at all levels of the organisation, and has the aim of developing a diverse talent pool of future directors and senior managers.
As set out in the Chairmans introduction to the Governance Report on page 46, during the year the Committee did consider diversity on the Board and throughout the organisation.
The Companys diversity policy is available on the Companys website.
