ACTIVITIES The chart on the opposite page summarises the principal AUDIT COMMITTEE activities of the Committee during the year and the significant issues it addressed and resulting actions taken.
REPORT ATTENDANCE By invitation, there were a number of regular attendees at each meeting, including the Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller, as well as the internal and external auditors.
The Chairman of the Company and the Chief Executive also attended by invitation.
Throughout the year, the Committee regularly met separately with each of the internal and external auditors in the absence of management.
During the year, the Committee had a presentation from DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited, who were the valuers of the wholly-owned Group property portfolio in 2011, and from CBRE Limited, who were appointed the Groups wholly-owned valuers in June 2012 following a competitive tender process.
In 2012, presentations were also given by the Heads of Tax and Business Information Systems, the Group Risk Manager, the Group Reporting Manager, the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary and the Finance Director Group Operations.
During the year, the Committee Chairman had a number of separate meetings with both the retiring and new lead audit partners at Deloitte LLP, had regular interaction with the lead internal audit partner at KPMG LLP and met with the directors at DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited and CBRE Limited.
INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK The Committee, on behalf of the Board, is responsible for reviewing the internal control framework.
This review is COMMITTEE consistent with the Code and covers all material areas of the Group, including risk management and compliance with CHAIRMANS controls.
The framework and internal controls system are designed to manage, but not to eliminate, the risk of failure INTRODUCTION of the Group to meet its business objectives and, as such, only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Committee also monitors The Audit Committees key role is to the effectiveness of the framework through written and verbal reports from the Group Finance Director and the internal and gain assurance around the processes that external auditors on progress with internal control activities.
support financial reporting: the valuation These reports included: process, internal control, risk management reviews of business processes and activities, including action plans to address any identied control weaknesses and legal and regulatory compliance, or recommendations for improvements to controls or together with the financial reporting itself.
processes: managements own assessment of the strengths and On behalf of the Board, it also monitors the integrity of the weaknesses of the overall control environment and the Groups financial statements, reviews the appointment, action plans to address any weaknesses: performance and independence of the external auditor and the the results of the internal audits: role and effectiveness of the internal audit function.
I chair the internal control recommendations made by the external Committee, and throughout the year the other members were auditors: and Andrew Palmer and Thom Wernink.
Christopher Fisher joined follow-up actions from previous internal control the Committee in October 2012 and Margaret Ford became recommendations.
a member on her appointment to the Board in January 2013.
As a former Chief Financial officer at London Stock Exchange The Committee monitors managements action plans to improve internal controls that have been identied following Group plc and as a Fellow of the ICAEW, I bring recent and relevant financial experience to the Committee.
It confirms that it has not been advised of any failings or weaknesses that it regards to be significant.
DOUG WEBB CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE A number of employees from across the business presented to the Committee during the year to enhance the Committees understanding of the issues it faced.
DOUG WEBB 054 SEGRO ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2012 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND SIGNIFICANT ISSUES 2012 PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES SIGNIFICANT ISSUES ACTION TAKEN Reviewing the integrity, consistency and The need for provisioning of debtor Following Committee challenge and auditor scrutiny of the Finance key judgements including going concern balances particularly for outstanding Teams assumptions, it was agreed that no provision would be made for in the Companys halfand full-year rental payments due from Neckermann, 2012 payments under the Neckermann lease, as these monies are financial statements.
one of the Groups major tenants, which expected to be recoverable through bank guarantees.
entered into administration during the year.
Judgement in accounting for significant Given the high probability of receipt of the post 30 June Farnborough transactions, for example: the disposal of IQ proceeds, the Finance Team proposed that the full proceeds of the Farnborough completed in April, with a disposal be recognised in the Half-Yearly Report.
Given the level of proportion of sale proceeds due post 30 June conditionality relating to the Fareham transaction, the proposal was not 2012: Fareham disposal was expected to to recognise disposal proceeds in the Half-Yearly Report.
The auditor complete in the first half of 2012 but confirmed that the policy was in accordance with accounting regulations completion remained conditional at the half and that the proposed treatment of proceeds was appropriate.
Company policy is to recognise significant discussion, the proposed treatment for both transactions was accepted property transactions when significant risk and by the Committee.
rewards of ownership are transferred.
The going concern concept is fundamental The Committee continues to monitor going concern albeit following to long-term shareholder value.
assessment we regard the risks associated with going concern as being low.
Assessing the independence of the Valuation is central to the business and the The Committee oversaw the tender process for selection and valuers and gaining assurance around Committee is responsible for the assurance appointment of the valuers in the first half of the year.
The valuers of the valuation process.
The Company decided to wholly-owned assets presented to the Committee on the valuation undertake a tender process for the valuers methodology as part of the halfand full-year results process.
In addition, during the year.
the Committee Chairman and the external auditor both met separately with the valuers to review the valuation process.
Reviewing the property valuation reports Reduction in comparable transaction data Despite a lack of transactional evidence for certain large non-core assets and considering any significant changes for valuation of large non-core assets in in Continental Europe, the valuers confirmed that there was sufficient to the valuation of individual assets.
evidence to reliably assess the fair value of these assets.
On the basis of the above, the Committee concluded that the valuations were suitable for inclusion in the financial statements.
Oversight and challenge of the risk Risk management is fundamental to In 2012, the Company conducted a full review of its risk management management process.
operations and good governance and best programme.
practice is evolving in this area.
The Risk Manager appraised the Committee of proposed changes to risk management.
The Committee took responsibility for monitoring the implementation of subsequent changes to the risk management programme.
Monitoring the independence and The Committees Terms of Reference require The Committee has implemented a process to monitor effectiveness effectiveness of the internal and external that these items are reviewed annually.
auditors, including oversight of the process for lead external audit partner rotation.
Recent changes to the Code require that the It was decided that the role of the external auditor would not be put out external audit role is put out to tender within to tender in the coming year and that the role provided by the internal a transitional period.
auditor would be put out to tender in 2013.
Internal control oversight and challenge There is a planned system changeover The Committee has oversight of the programme implementation and has of the internal control process and the in the UK business in 2013 that could received regular updates from the Head of the Steering Committee.
lead to significant issues for the reliability of financial reporting if not properly KPMG LLP has reviewed the system changeover process as part of the implemented.
The auditor is currently in the process of testing the Groups data migration plans.
Reviewing the proposals for changes in Following the re-structuring of the business Concluded that a five-segment approach would provide increased segmental reporting to better align with the in 2011, the UK Continental Europe granularity for investors and better reect the Group structure.
segmental reporting split was no longer new format was adopted for the 2012 half-year financial statements.
A number of alternatives were reviewed.
Oversight of matters relating to tax and any The Groups REIT and SIIC compliance is a The Head of Tax presented to the Committee and various issues were potential impact on the integrity of the key consideration given the potential impact discussed including matters of judgement, tax risk and tax strategy.
agreed that no action on the part of the Committee was necessary, but it would continue to monitor these areas.
Considering the impact of regulatory Regulatory changes allow for companies to The Committee accepted managements recommendation that cost reporting requirements, including changes obtain an exemption from the requirement savings in taking audit exemption were not justied by legal risk.
This to the Code and the options regarding the to audit subsidiary companies.
position is to be reviewed again in 2013. audit of subsidiary accounts.
com 055 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Company has a whistleblowing policy and has a service INTERNAL AUDIT provided by a third party whereby employees can raise At the core of the Committees role is the assurance of the concerns, whether in relation to financial reporting or other processes that support financial reporting, the valuation matters, in confidence.
Arrangements are in place for reporting process, internal controls system, risk management and legal such concerns to the Committee, and any matters reported and regulatory compliance.
under the policy are promptly and fully investigated, with As in previous years, assurance of the risk management external support where necessary.
process, testing of internal controls and setting the internal audit programme continued to be key priorities.
The internal EXTERNAL AUDIT audit programme, which is developed by reference to the On an annual basis, the Committee considers the appointment, Group Risk Register, provides the Committee with a further remuneration and independence of the external auditors.
means of monitoring actions to manage and mitigate those It is the Committees responsibility to assess the effectiveness of risks identied as posing the greatest threat to the Company.
the external audit process, and its policy is to conduct this During the year, internal audits were carried out on a number review on an annual basis.
As part of the 2012 review, detailed of business processes, including the procurement function, the questionnaires were sent to key personnel in the business to acquisition and disposal process, the capital approvals process, gather feedback on Deloitte LLPs performance as external health and safety, service charges and the treasury function.
The Committee also considered the quality of the auditors reports, the level of scrutiny applied to management The Committee believes that the value of internal audit is recommendations and the interaction of the auditor with the enhanced by having a third party perform this function, as this Committee.
Following the review, the Committee is satisfied supports the independent challenge of management and gives that Deloitte LLP continues to provide appropriate levels of greater access to expertise than an internal function could scepticism and challenge and has recommended to the Board provide.
KPMG LLP has performed this role throughout the that Deloitte LLP be proposed for re-election at the 2013 AGM.
Once each internal audit is completed, KPMG LLP issues a questionnaire to the process owner and other relevant Deloitte LLP was appointed as auditor in 2007 following a employees to ensure that real-time feedback is collected on the competitive tender.
In accordance with best practice on audit quality and effectiveness of its audit.
The results of this partner rotation, and following consultation with the Chairman feedback are provided to the Committee.
In 2012, the of the Committee and the Group Finance Director, a new lead responses indicated a strong level of satisfaction with the audit partner for SEGRO was appointed for the 2012 financial internal audit work.
This evidence, along with input from the year.
Given these changes, the Code and the Financial senior management team and its own interaction with the lead Reporting Councils transitional arrangements for audit internal audit partner, was considered by the Committee as part tenders provide SEGRO with the opportunity to defer of the annual review of the effectiveness of the internal auditor.
re-tendering the external audit until 2022.
It is the It was concluded that the internal audit function had been Committees intention to re-tender when it is appropriate effective and, accordingly, the Committee extended KPMG to do so and within this timeframe.
LLPs engagement for a further year.
The internal auditor The Committees policy for the use of the external auditor contract will be re-tendered during 2013. for non-audit services recognises that there are certain In 2013, the Committee will continue to follow a risk-based circumstances where, due to their knowledge of the Company approach to internal audit.
In addition to the Committees and their expertise, Deloitte LLP will often be in the best regular responsibilities, areas of focus will include the position to perform non-audit services.
The policy species implementation of MRI in the UK, IT controls, leasing and sign-off procedures for approval of all non-audit services.
property data processes, sales and invoicing and VAT.
Should fees for a specic project be expected to exceed 100,000, sign-off is required by the Chairman of the Committee and the Group Finance Director, or in his absence, the Chief Executive.
Where fees are expected to be in excess of 250,000, approval is required by the Committee.
The policy also has a non-exhaustive schedule of services that Deloitte LLP should not provide, as they could be detrimental to its independence as an external auditor.
This schedule was amended in 2010 to formalise the occasions when the business may instruct Deloitte Real Estate, which includes the real estate business formerly known as Drivers Jonas LLP.
The policy for the use of external auditors for non-audit services is available at www.
The Committee recommends the remuneration of the external auditor to the Board and keeps under review the ratio of audit to non-audit fees to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the external auditor are not put at risk.
In 2012, the fee for audit and audit-related services was 0.7 million.
The fee for non-audit services was 0.2 million, 0.1 million of which was in respect of tax compliance and tax advisory services: the remaining 0.1 million was in respect of services provided by Deloitte Real Estate.
Deloitte LLP is also the auditor of the APP and Big Box joint ventures, and details of these fees are provided in note 7 to the financial statements.
Deloitte LLP has provided written conrmation of its independence to the Committee, and the Committee does not consider that the level of non-audit fees adversely impacts on the independence of Deloitte LLP as auditor.
