OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE G GO OVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION nomination committee This has been a year of important changes in the composition of the Board.
Brian Bickell became Chief Executive at the beginning of the year.
Christopher Ward joined us as Finance Director in January 2012.
After fifteen years with the Company, of which the last eight have been as Chairman, I advised the Board earlier this year of my intention to retire at the Annual General Meeting in February 2013.
TheCommittee has devoted considerable time this year to finding my successor.
As announced on 23 May 2012, the Board chose Jonathan Lane to succeed me as Chairman.
Jonathan has spent 25 years as Chief Executive and last year became Deputy Chairman.
John Emly, who had been with us for twelve years, retired atthe Annual General Meeting in February 2012.
The Committees deliberations on Board composition and succession led to a decision that we would benefit from having two additional non-executive directors with differing experience and skills.
We undertook an external search process and I am delighted to welcome to the Board Dermot Mathias and Sally Walden, whom the Board recommends for election at theAnnual General Meeting in February2013.
John Manser Chairman of the Nomination Committee CHAIRMAN SUCCESSION COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE John Manser Chairman The succession process for the Chairman was led by the SeniorIndependent Director.
The Chairman was not present Jill Little fordiscussions regarding his succession.
Gordon McQueen Oliver Marriott The Committee consulted shareholders representing almost Hilary Riva 50% of the Companys issued share capital and ascertained John Emly to 10 February 2012 that there would be considerable support should Jonathan Dermot Mathias from 1 October 2012 Lane be appointed non-executive Chairman.
As a result of this Sally Walden from 1 October 2012 consultation and following discussions at the Committee and Board, it was decided that Jonathan Lane be appointed as The composition of the Committee complied with the requirements of the Code throughout the year.
Terms of Chairman at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
The appointment reference are available on the Groups website.
was made without the use of an external search firm.
The Board considered that Jonathan was best placed to lead the Jonathan Lane will become chairman of the Committee when Board and ensure its continued effectiveness.
He has a long he becomes Chairman of the Board at the conclusion of the experience with the Group and has been instrumental in the 2013 AGM.
evolution of its very specific and successful long-term strategy.
The Board concluded that continuity is essential while its ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR composition continues to evolve.
The Committee met four times during the year to consider: APPOINTMENT OF TWO NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Standing matters Additional matters As part of continuing succession planning, the Committee keeps the composition of the Board under review.
John Emly Succession planning for the Appointment of retired from the Board at the 2012 AGM having served for Board and management FinanceDirector twelve years.
The Committee considered the balance of skills Board and Committee Chairman succession and diversity of the Board, including gender, and identified that performance evaluation and Appointment of two the Boards compostion would benefit from the appointment of evaluation of the skills of the two additional non-executive directors.
The Committee non-executive directors directors for re-election appointed Egon Zehnder, which has no other connection with the Group, to undertake a search process.
A detailed role Directors for re-election description was prepared.
andelection Shortlisted candidates met executive directors and the Review of the annual Company Secretary to gain insight into the Groups business Committee report and its culture.
Interviews were then conducted by the Committee which resulted in a recommendation to the Board to appoint Dermot Mathias and Sally Walden.
The Committee is APPOINTMENT OF FINANCE DIRECTOR satisfied that both candidates have sufficient time to devote to the Following an executive recruitment process during the Groups business.
previousfinancial year, the announcement of the appointment of Christopher Ward as Finance Director was made on Biographical details of all directors are set out on page 49.
3October 2011 and he joined the Board on 9 January 2012.
SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 53 nomination committee nomination committee continued POLICY ON DIVERSITY SUCCESSION PLANNING All appointments to the Board are made on merit.
The Board The Committee is responsible for succession planning for the approved a policy in September 2011 which states that it seeks Board and management.
Chairman and non-executive director a composition with the right balance of skills and diversity to succession has been a priority during the year, but the Committee meet the demands of the business.
Diversity encompasses all has also paid particular attention to management succession.
aspects including gender and is considered at every level of DIRECTORS STANDING FOR ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION recruitment.
The Board does not consider that quotas are Dermot Mathias and Sally Walden joined the Board on appropriate for Board representation and has therefore not 1October 2012.
They will stand for election at the 2013AGM.
All other directors will stand for re-election at the 2013 AGM with During the year gender ratio of the Board was 80% male and the exception of the Chairman, John Manser, who will retire 20% female.
Following the appointments on 1 October 2012 of from the Board at the conclusion of the meeting.
Dermot Mathias and Sally Walden the ratio became 75% male and 25% female.
Following the annual board performance reviews of individual directors, the Chairman considers: Gender ratio of the Groups employees at 30 September 2012 isset out below: WKDW HDFK GLUHFWRU VXEMHFW WR UH HOHFWLRQ FRQWLQXHV WR RSHUDWH as an effective member of the Board: and Female Male WKDW HDFK GLUHFWRU VXEMHFW WR UH HOHFWLRQ RU HOHFWLRQ KDV theskill, knowledge and experience that enables them to discharge their duties properly and contribute to the effective operation of the Board.
45% 50% The Board also considered the continuing role of Gordon McQueen who has been a non-executive director for seven years, including three years as Senior Independent Director, and concluded that he should continue on the Board.
55% The Board, on the advice of the Committee, therefore 50% recommends the re-election of each director standing for re-election.
Senior All employees management During the year three employees were recruited including an executive director.
Two non-executive director appointments were made after the year end.
Of these five appointees, twowere female.
SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 54 nomination committee
