corporate governance Your Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
This year has been a year of management change as Brian Bickell became Chief Executive and Jonathan Lane became Deputy Chairman.
In January 2012 Christopher Ward joined the Board as Finance Director.
Earlier this year I advised the Board that I intended to retire at the conclusion of the AGM in February 2013.
The Nomination Committee undertook a process to seek my successor which resulted in the recommendation to the Boardthat Jonathan Lane succeed me as Chairman.
As part of overall succession planning for the Board, two additional non-executive directors joined on 1October 2012.
The changes in the Boards composition will augment the experience and balance of independence of theBoard for the future.
John Manser Chairman COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Chairman succession The Group applied the main principles of the UK Corporate Jonathan Lane will succeed John Manser as Chairman at the conclusion of the AGM in February 2013.
Succession is Governance Code throughout the year.
It did not comply with provision B.
1.2. between 1 October 2011 and 10 February 2012 explained in the Nomination Committee report on pages 53 and the date of John Emlys retirement that at least half the Board, 54. excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive On his appointment as a non-executive director, Jonathan Lane directors determined by the Board to be independent.
will not meet the Codes independence criteria.
He will chair Set out below is an explanation of how the Group applied the the Nomination Committee but will not be a member of either principles of the Code and in so doing, how it complied with its the Audit or Remuneration Committees.
EFFECTIVENESS LEADERSHIP Composition of the Board The Board is responsible to shareholders for the long-term The Nomination Committee keeps the composition of the Board success of the business.
The strategy set by the Board is to under review.
As well as managing the Chairmans succession, invest in the West End of London and it ensures that the the Nomination Committee undertook an external search business follows that course.
process to identify two new non-executive directors which is explained in the Nomination Committee report on page x.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board Dermot Mathias and Sally Walden joined the Board on ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chief 1October 2012 strengthening the independent membership Executive has responsibility for the management of the Groups ofthe Board.
There is a formal statement of the division of responsibilities between the two roles.
This was The chart below illustrates the balance of the Board.
updated in November 2012 and is available on the Groups website.
Non-independent NED Chairman Independent NED Executive director There is a Senior Independent Director and an executive 1 DeputyChairman.
The role of Deputy Chairman has specific 1 1 6 responsibilities agreed by the Board, including deputising for the Chairman and reviewing the Groups succession planning 4 process with particular focus this year on non-executive 5 director recruitment and long-term management succession.
4 The role will cease in February 2013, when the current incumbent becomes non-executive Chairman.
2012 The Board formulates the Groups strategy and monitors and includes two non-executive directors who joined the Board on1.10.2012.
controls operating and financial performance.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board for decision which The Board includes a wide range of non-executive director is available on the Groups website.
Matters include the experience encompassing property, finance, fund management approval of all acquisitions, all disposals, major contracts over fashion and retail providing appropriate skills for the business.
a specified level, major refurbishment proposals, finance and Each of the current non-executive directors is considered to be risk management.
The Boards policy on gender diversity is described in the Nomination Committee report on page 54.
SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 50 corporate governance OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE G GO OVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION corporate governance continued The tenure of non-executive directors as at 30 September 2012 Training and induction isset out below.
The Chairman is responsible for the ongoing training of directors and ensuring that they maintain the skills and Years knowledge required to fulfil their roles as directors.
Training Jill Little 2 records are maintained by the Company Secretary.
Directors are expected to maintain their professional skills.
NonHilary Riva 2 executive directors are expected to maintain their familiarity Oliver Marriott 3 with the business through frequent communication with executive directors and employees and by making regular visits Gordon McQueen 7 to the Groups portfolio.
John Manser 15 Induction of new appointees to the Board is led by the Chairman and administered by the Company Secretary.
Upon his appointment to the Board in January 2012, Christopher Ward received a retiring 8.2.
During the year he met a substantial number of the Groups major shareholders, all the Board and Committee meetings Groups key advisors and undertook training appropriate to the The Board has three committees: Audit, Remuneration and role, recognising this is not his first directorship of a public Nomination.
Terms of reference for these committees are on company.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary Dermot Mathias and Sally Walden, non-executive directors who to each committee.
Minutes of meetings are circulated to all joined the Board on 1 October 2012, are receiving separate tailored directors.
Reports from each committee follow on pages 53 to inductions according to their individual experience and skills as 64. well as familiarisation with the business, its employees and Set out below is attendance at the scheduled Board and portfolio.
Additional meetings were held to deal Directors may seek independent professional advice at the with routine and operational matters as required and are not Groups expense in furtherance of their duties as directors.
Evaluation RemunThe Board undertakes an annual review of its performance Audit eration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee andthe performance of the Committees to ensure that each continues to operate effectively.
Following last years external Number of evaluation, this year the process was conducted internally.
scheduled Itfocused on the areas considered in detail last year including meetings 5344 the composition and diversity of the Board and succession Attended Attended Attended Attended planning, particularly for non-executive directors with more than six years service.
The Nomination Committee and the Executive directors Board considered the results at the July 2012 Board meeting.
B Bickell 5 No issues were identified following this years process.
S J Quayle 5 ACCOUNTABILITY T J C Welton 5 Internal control and risk management procedures C P A Ward 4 4 The directors are responsible for the Groups systems of J S Lane 5 internal controls and risk management and for reviewing their Non-executive directors effectiveness.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks faced by the business and can provide P J Manser 5 - - 4 only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material W G McQueen 5 3 4 4 misstatement or loss.
Their adequacy and effectiveness are O J D Marriott 5 3 4 4 monitored through the risk management and audit processes J C Little 5 3 4 4 which include financial and portfolio management audits.
H S Riva 5 3 3 4 The principal risks and uncertainties identified by the Board and how they are managed or mitigated are summarised on J R K Emly 2 2 - - 2 2 pages 18 and 19.
Numbers in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings a director could have attended during their period of appointment.
Hilary Riva missed one Committee meeting due to exceptional circumstances.
There was otherwise full attendance.
SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 51 corporate governance corporate governance continued REMUNERATION Executive directors and senior employees meet regularly to review the risks facing the business, the controls established to minimise This information is contained in the Remuneration Report on those risks and their effectiveness in operation.
The aim of pages 55 to 62. these reviews is to provide reasonable assurance that material risks and problems are identified with appropriate action taken RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS at an early stage to mitigate them including insurance being in The Board considers its relationship with both institutional and place where appropriate.
Reports on this review are submitted private shareholders to be extremely important.
The Board during the year to the Audit Committee and the Board to enable encourages contact with all shareholders throughout the year them to assess the effectiveness of the process and ensure and at the AGM.
The Chairman and Committee Chairmen are that the Group complies with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal present at the AGM to deal with any matters raised by Control.
This year it also included an additional review of the shareholders.
All directors attended the 2012 AGM.
strategic risks facing the business which was externally Institutional shareholders hold approximately 95% of the facilitated.
The Chief Executive and executive The key elements of the Groups procedures and internal directors meet institutional investors regularly during the year financial control framework, which are monitored throughout to discuss strategic and other issues within the constraints the year, are: imposed by the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The meetings frequently include visits a The close involvement of the executive directors in all to the Groups portfolio.
During 2012, over 200 such meetings aspects of day-to-day operations, including regular were held.
meetings with employees to review all operational aspects of the business.
The small number of employees ensures Following the announcement of its annual and half year results, familiarity with all aspects of the business: the Chief Executive and executive directors make presentations b Clearly defined responsibilities and limits of authority.
to institutional investors and analysts.
Non-executive directors TheBoard has responsibility for strategy and has adopted also attend a number of these presentations.
The presentations aschedule of matters which are required to be brought to it of annual and half year results are made available on the for decision including all acquisitions, all disposals, major Groups website in the investor relations section.
The Board contracts and major refurbishment or development receives regular reports on shareholder meetings.
The proposals: Chairman met a number of shareholders during the year.
c A c omprehensive system of financial reporting and The Senior Independent Director and a non-executive director forecasting.
Group accounts are prepared quarterly and met shareholders representing almost 50% of the Groups submitted to the Board.
Forecasts of profit, cash flow and issued share capital as part of the consultation process for the bank facility covenant compliance are prepared at least Chairmans succession.
quarterly, approved by the Board and used to monitor The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders as actual performance: an alternative channel of communication with the Board.
d The Financ e Director has overall responsibility for the preparation of the financial information which is submitted Going concern to the Audit Committee and the Board.
The Audit The Groups business activities, together with the factors Committee ensures that the internal controls in the affecting performance, financial position and future financial reporting process are in place and effective: development are set out in the Business Review on pages 14 to e The dayto-day estate management of the Groups portfolio 17.
The financial position of the Group including cash flow, is outsourced to three managing agents.
The Group liquidity, borrowings including undrawn facilities and debt monitors the performance of each managing agent and has maturity analysis are set out on pages 34 to 36. established extensive financial and operational controls to The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has ensure that each maintains an acceptable level of service.
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the The Group also uses the services of an external consultant foreseeable future.
Therefore, they continue to adopt the going to review periodically the operational processes and concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
controls of each managing agent: f A c omprehensive manual recording the key business processes and related controls across the whole of the Groups business is maintained and regularly updated.
The Audit Committee has not identified any material weaknesses in the Groups control structure during the year.
The Board confirms that procedures to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by the Group have been in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
page 52 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 corporate governance
