OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE G GO OVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION audit committee The Committees focus this year, in addition to the publication of financial information, has been on astrategic review of the key business risks faced by the Group.
A detailed exercise supplemented the normal risk management process.
The strategic risks and their treatment are discussed in detail in theBusiness Review.
Gordon McQueen Chairman of the Audit Committee COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE The composition of the Committee complied with the requirements of the Code throughout the year.
All members are Gordon McQueen Chairman independent non-executive directors.
Gordon McQueen and Jill Little Dermot Mathias are the members of the Committee with Oliver Marriott recent and relevant financial experience.
Hilary Riva Dermot Mathias from 1 October 2012 The Finance Director and the auditors attend meetings.
Sally Walden from 1 October 2012 Theauditors have the opportunity for discussion without management present.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups website.
ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR The Committee met three times during the year to deal with the following matters: Standing matters Additional matters Reviewed published financial information including the year end Strategic review of the key business risks results, preliminary announcement, Annual Report, half year Approved non-audit assignment awarded to the external audit firm results, Half Year Report and the Interim Management Statements Reviewed management accounts against forecasts Reviewed all areas of judgement with the potential to have amaterial impact on the financial statements and made anyconsequent recommendations to the Board Met with the Groups valuers to discuss the valuation process Reviewed key business procedures and controls Reviewed six monthly the risk and internal controlframework Considered the appropriateness of the going concern assumption Monitored audit and non-audit fees Considered the independence of the auditors Reviewed the auditors performance and made a recommendation for the appointment of the Groups  Planned for year end Reviewed the whistleblowing policy Considered the need for an internal audit function Reviewed the Committees performance Reviewed the Committee Report SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 63 audit committee audit committee continued RISK REVIEW PROCESS AUDIT FEES During the year the Committee and the Board undertook Fees payable to the Groups auditors for audit and non-audit anin-depth review of the risks to the business which was services are set out below: facilitated by an external advisor.
This was in addition to the standard business risk review which is conducted every six 2012 2011 000 000 months.
This review focused on strategic risks faced by the business.
The Groups principal risks and uncertainties are Audit of the Companys annual accounts 45 40 reported in the BusinessReview.
Audit of subsidiaries and joint venture 89 79 FINANCIAL REPORTING AND THE VALUATION PROCESS Total audit services 134 119 The Committee considers all financial information published inthe annual and half year financial statements and considers accounting policies adopted by the Group.
Audit related assurance services 19 19 One of the key components of the annual and half year financial Other assurance services 6 - results is the valuation of the Groups portfolio by its external valuers.
This is an important area of judgement for the Board Total assurance services 25 19 and is material to the Groups results.
As well as detailed management procedures and reviews of the process, members of the Committee meet the Groups valuers without management Total audit and assurance services 159 138 present to discuss the valuation process.
The Board considers the valuation in detail at its meetings to approve the financial statements.
The auditors also hold discussions with the Tax compliance services 56 49 valuers.
Tax advisory service 88 149 TENURE OF AUDITORS AND TENDER FOR AUDIT SERVICES Services related to taxation 144 198  LLP or its predecessor firms has been the Companys auditors since it listed on the London Stock Exchange in October 1987.
The audit was tendered in 2010.
Other non-audit services - 9 TheCommittee resolved to recommend to the Board that Total fees related to taxation  LLP continue as auditors.
andothernon-audit services 144 207  LLP are recommended for re-appointment at the 2013 AGM.
Total fees 303 345 INTERNAL AUDIT In view of the focused nature of the Groups business, its Fees relate to half year review.
modest size and relatively simple structure together with the This year non-audit fees 144,000 were less than audit and regular independent reviews of the processes and controls of assurance fees 159,000. managing agents, the Committee recommended to the Board that at the present time there is no need to establish an The audit fees for the Company and the Group are relatively low internal audit function.
due primarily to the simple corporate structure of the Group.
AWARD OF NON-AUDIT ASSIGNMENTS TO THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR CONFIRMATION AUDIT FIRM  LLP has confirmed to the Committee: The policy of the Committee is that non-audit assignments will 7KDW WKH KDYH LQWHUQDO SURFHGXUHV LQ SODFH WR LGHQWLI DQ not be awarded to the external audit firm where there is a risk aspects of non-audit work which could compromise their role that their audit independence and objectivity could be as auditors and to ensure the objectivity of their audit report: compromised and that, other than in exceptional circumstances, non-audit fees should not exceed audit and assurance fees.
7KDW WKH WRWDO IHHV SDLG E WKH URXS GXULQJ WKH HDU GR QRW represent a material part of their firms fee income: and In addition, the award of any non-audit assignment to the Groups auditors in excess of 25,000 is subject to the prior 7KDW WKH FRQVLGHU WKDW WKH KDYH PDLQWDLQHG WKHLU DXGLW approval of the Committee.
One assignment was approved independence throughout the year.
during the year under this policy for the Groups corporate The Committee is satisfied with the independence of the taxcompliance work.
SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 64 audit committee
