30 Corporate Governance Dear Shareholder, The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and to complying with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and I am pleased to report that except in one limited respect, the Company has complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code for the period under review.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good governance and this report, together with the Directors Remuneration Report, set out on pages 42 to 56, describes how the main principles of governance set out in the Code have been applied by the Company.
Following the appointment of Steve Foots as the The Board fully supports greater diversity The Committee will ensure that the specication Companys Group Chief Executive in January within our business.
A greater diversity of ideas, for a new Non-Executive Director is equally 2012, in February 2012 Keith Layden was skills, knowledge, experience, and, not least, suited to both female and male applicants.
appointed to the Board as Chief Technology gender throughout our organisation is very We especially wish to attract and encourage officer.
In support of the Groups strategy of important for our continuing long term success.
talented women candidates to the role and, innovation, Keith is responsible for the Enterprise This also applies when it comes to the as with all our Board appointments, we will appoint search consultants that have signed up Technology Group, charged with identifying the composition of our Board to ensure that it is to the voluntary code on diversity and instruct next generation of technologies and well equipped to lead the business effectively, them to compile a long list of candidates that accelerating their capture.
embrace new ideas and satisfy all the different includes a good proportion of strong women stakeholders we have as a global organisation Relationships at Board level were further candidates.
Regarding all future appointments and member of the FTSE 100. strengthened during the year and both to the Board, whether for Non-Executive or Steve Foots and I have fostered an open Whilst we have women in a number of senior Executive positions, we will continue to carefully atmosphere in the boardroom where all the roles including on our Executive Committee, we consider the benets of greater diversity, Directors are encouraged to engage in want to encourage more to join the business including gender diversity, whilst ensuring that challenging but constructive debates on and progress within it.
To achieve this, we are we full our obligations to our shareholders to important issues and risk areas.
developing initiatives to create an environment recruit the best person to the relevant role.
where the next generation of women in our An externally facilitated Board effectiveness business have the opportunity to become future On pages 4 and 5 of the Group Chief Executives review was conducted during the year in line leaders, both at senior management level and review there is an explanation of the Groups with the requirements of the Code.
business model and the basis on which the feedback from the review indicated that the Group generates value over the long term and Board and its Committees are operating well Over the coming months our Nomination the plan for delivering our strategic objectives.
and the composition of the Board reects Committee will be looking closely at the balance In the coming year, the Board will undertake a a good range of appropriate skills and and composition of the Board as part of its detailed review of the Companys innovation expertise.
I have created an action plan for the succession planning.
The term of our longest strategy, the globalisation of manufacturing and Board following the review and personalised serving Non-Executive Director, Stanley its focus on emerging markets.
The Board will development plans for each Non-Executive Musesengwa, is due to expire in May 2014. also be overseeing the Executive led root and Director.
The review process, together with As usual every effort will be made to appoint branch review of the Companys remuneration a summary of the actions the Board and a new Non-Executive Director whose skills and philosophy, framework and policies and in experience will not only be of significant benefit its Committees are taking following the review addition will develop a policy on Board diversity.
to Croda but will also be complementary to are discussed further on page 34. existing Board members and enhance the Boards overall effectiveness.
Martin Flower, Chairman 31 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Leadership Role of the Board Governance Structure The Board has ultimate responsibility for the The Board has three main committees, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and overall leadership of the Company and in this the Nomination Committee.
role it assists in the development of a clear Audit Committee Chaired by Alan Ferguson strategy for the Group, monitors operational The Committee monitors the integrity of the Companys financial statements announcements, and financial performance against agreed the accounting processes and effectiveness of internal controls and risk management.
goals and objectives and ensures that For more information on the Audit Committee see pages 38 and 39. appropriate controls and systems are in place to manage risk.
It has a formal schedule of Remuneration Committee Chaired by Stanley Musesengwa matters specically reserved for it, a full copy of The Committee approves the Companys remuneration policy and framework and determines which can be found on the Companys website the remuneration packages for members of senior management.
For more information on the www.
The principal matters Remuneration Committee see page 50. reserved for the Board are set out on page 32.
At the date of this report the Board comprises Nomination Committee Chaired by Martin Flower the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees.
Group Finance Director, the Chief Technology It identies and nominates suitable candidates for appointment to the Board and is responsible officer and four independent Non-Executive for succession planning.
For more information on the Nomination Committee see page 40.
Directors, who have a broad range of business, financial and international skills and experience.
The day to day operational management of the business is delegated by the Board to the Group This provides an appropriate balance and Chief Executive, who utilises a number of committees to assist him in this task: the Group Executive diversity within the Board.
Biographical notes Committee, the Finance Committee, the Risk Management Committee, the Group SHE Steering appear on pages 28 and 29.
Committee and the Routine Business Committee.
For further information on each of these committees see page 41.
Details of the Companys Board and Committee governance structure are set out below.
The terms of reference for each Committee of the Board can be found on the Companys website.
Membership and activities of the various committees are summarised on the following pages.
Board Membership of the Board as at 31 December 2012 and attendance eligibility at Board meetings held during the year.
Meetings during the year 8 Nomination Audit Remuneration Group Chief Current members Committee Committee Committee Executive Martin Flower Chairman 8 8 Sean Christie 8 8 Alan Ferguson 8 8 Steve Foots 8 8 Keith Layden 8 8 Routine Business Group SHE Risk Management Finance Group Executive Stanley Musesengwa 8 8 Committee Steering Committee Committee Committee Committee Nigel Turner 8 8 Steve Williams 8 8 The overall feedback from the review indicated that the Board and its Committees are operating well and the composition of the Board reects a good range of appropriate skills and expertise.
"32 Corporate Governance Leadership Principal Matters Reserved for the Board Strategy and management s ! SLONGTERMOBJECTIVES  Financial reporting and controls s !PPROVALOFTHE'ROUP SlNANCIALSTATEMENTS s  s ! Internal controls s % Public communication s ! Board membership and other appointments s 4HESIZE ""OARDANDITS#OMMITTEES s "" Delegation of authority s !#HAIRMANAND'ROUP#HIEF% of Board Committees Remuneration s $$ Contracts, acquisitions, disposals s ! and investments Policies s ! Other s !   SPENSIONSCHEMES Role of Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief The Group Chief Executive has day to day In addition to the formal Board meetings, all the Executive are separate and clearly dened with responsibility for the effective management Directors attended a half day meeting to review the division of responsibilities set out in writing of the Companys business and in ensuring the Groups strategy and attended the Annual and agreed by the Board."
the implementation of decisions of the Board.
They also met with The Group Chief Executive plays a key role in the Companys financial and public relations The Chairman leads the Board and is devising and reviewing sustainable strategies advisers to discuss the feedback from investors responsible for promoting an open and effective for the development of the Company for and analysts on the Groups 2011 annual results.
communication between the Executive and discussion and approval by the Board.
He is The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors and for creating an tasked with providing regular reports to the meet together without the Executive Directors environment at Board meetings in which all the Board on all matters of signicance relating present on an ad hoc basis and the NonDirectors contribute to boardroom discussions to the Companys business or its reputation to Executive Directors meet at least annually in the and feel comfortable in engaging in healthy ensure the Board has accurate, timely and absence of the Chairman in order to appraise debate and constructive challenge.
The clear information on all matters on which a his performance.
Chairman sets the annual Board agenda decision of the Board is required.
The Group In addition, senior management are invited to programme and Board meeting agendas and Chief Executive promotes the Companys attend and present on specic issues at Board determines the number of meetings to be culture and standards.
meetings which provides an opportunity for the held during the year.
He ensures that there is Non-Executive Directors to meet the Groups adequate time dedicated during meetings and The Chairman and Group Chief Executive liaise business leaders and enhance their understanding throughout the year to discuss all material closely and have frequent meetings, face-toof the business.
Advisers also attend some matters, including strategic, financial, operational, face or by telephone, in which the Chairman is kept appraised of significant developments meetings for discussion of specic topics.
business, risk, HR and governance issues.
This also ensures any The Chairman leads the annual Board areas of potential conict between the Executive effectiveness review process and ensures and Non-Executive Directors are minimised.
all new Directors undertake an appropriately tailored induction process.
The Chairman is The Senior Independent Directors role includes responsible for ensuring effective providing a sounding board for the Chairman communication with shareholders and for and acting as an intermediary for the Nonensuring the Board develops an understanding Executive Directors, where necessary.
He is of the views of major shareholders.
The available to shareholders where communication Chairman also ensures that the Company through the Chairman or Executive Directors has complies with good practice in corporate not been successful or where it may not seem governance, ethical, environmental and human appropriate.
The Senior Independent Director is resources matters and upholds high standards responsible for leading the Non-Executive of integrity and probity.
Directors in appraising the performance of the Chairman and in their discussions of the Chairmans term of appointment and fees.
33 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The Boards Activities During the Year and Priorities for 2013 The Board has an annual agenda programme to ensure that strategic, operational and business, financial, HR and corporate governance items are discussed at the appropriate time at Board meetings during the year.
Some key highlights of the Boards activities during the year, and areas for focus during 2013, are set out below.
Strategy The Board held a strategy day in October 2012 at which senior management presented their proposals for the strategic development of the business.
At each Board meeting the Board discusses strategic corporate development and M&A opportunities.
During the year the Board agreed to acquire two companies, Italian based IRB and US based Innovachem.
During 2013 the Board will be undertaking detailed reviews of its innovation strategy, the globalisation of its manufacturing and its focus on emerging markets.
Operations The Board were given regular quarterly updates on Safety, Health and Environment SHE, Corporate Social Responsibility CSR, and business and IT.
The Board invites senior managers from across the business to give presentations on their business.
These items will also be discussed in 2013.
Finance The Board monitored regularly the Groups financial performance and approved the financial statements, dividend policy and treasury policies.
HR The Board undertook a detailed review of succession planning and talent development during the year.
In 2013 the Board will oversee the Executive led root and branch review of the Companys remuneration philosophy, framework and policies.
Corporate The Board launched a comprehensive anti-bribery and corruption policy, training and awareness campaign that will continue Governance in 2013.
The Board undertook an externally facilitated review of its effectiveness and the effectiveness of its Committees, further details of which can be found on page 34.
During 2013 the Board will develop a Board diversity policy.
Board Re-election The Board contains a broad range of skills The Companys Articles of Association require The Companys Articles of Association and experience from different industries and the Directors to offer themselves for re-election require the Directors to offer themselves advisory roles as well as across international at least once every three years and for newly for re-election at least markets.
These skills support the strategic aims appointed Directors to offer themselves for of the Company for the future.
Following election at the first AGM after the date of their individual performance assessments, the Board appointment.
However, in accordance with the once every is satisfied that each Director continues to UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors perform effectively, allocates sufficient time to will stand for re-election at the 2013 AGM.
Full three years discharge their duties and remains fully biographies for the Directors can be found on committed to their role in the Company.
34 Corporate Governance Effectiveness The Nomination Committee Mrs Crane attended the October 2012 Board The review concluded that the Board is aligned The Nomination Committee Report, which and Committee meetings and conducted a to the Groups strategy, with its focus on describes the membership of the Nomination series of one-to-one meetings with each of emerging markets and innovation.
The Board Committee, its responsibilities, its main activities the Directors to gather their views overall on has good oversight of financial reporting and during the year and its priorities for 2013, is set how the Board is working and on specic areas it was noted that the Group Chief Executive and out on page 40. considered most valuable including: strategy: the Chairman of the Audit Committee have financial monitoring: risk management: Board provided increased confidence in this area Board Evaluation dynamics: balance and composition: and during the year.
The Board undertakes a formal review of its succession planning and HR.
performance and that of its Committees each The Company has a sound control environment year.
This year we commissioned our first The Board had a feedback session, facilitated with robust risk management systems and a externally facilitated review in accordance with by Mrs Crane, which included an open and strong safety record.
The Board is collegiate the Code.
The review was conducted by Sheena detailed discussion of the findings.
Separately, with trusted relationships based on mutual Crane, an experienced consultant, who does not the Chairman provided feedback on a respect.
The size and composition of the have any other connection with the Company.
one-to-one basis to each of the Non-Executive Board encourages good open debate and Directors and to the Group Chief Executive and there is a good range of skills and experience has created personalised development plans at Board level.
for 2013 for each Non-Executive Director.
Actions and objectives have been agreed based on the feedback and the Board has already begun to implement many of the action points.
The key actions are summarised below.
"s 4HE"" lNANCIALRISKS HEALTHANDSAFETY CSR and sustainability."
"s 4HE""OARDWILLDEVELOPA""#RODAORGANISATION s 4HE""OARDWILLBELOOKINGAT."
ON %XECUTIVE$  to Croda in the future.
"s 4HE""#HIEF%XECUTIVE s 4HE2EMUNERATION#%#OMPANY s 4HE"" s 4HE#HAIRMANAND'ROUP#HIEF%""OARDAND# most efficient use of the Boards time."
Directors Induction Training and briengs are available to all On joining Croda, Directors receive a Directors on appointment and subsequently, The review concluded that tailored induction programme based on as appropriate, taking into account their existing their experience as a Director of a listed experience, qualications and skills.
In order to the Board is aligned to the company and knowledge of the industry build and increase the Non-Executive Directors Groups strategy, with its sector.
This includes: time with the Company familiarity with, and understanding of, the Secretary, members of the Executive Groups people and businesses and the focus on emerging Committee and other senior management markets in which it operates, presentations from across the business: meetings with advisers: senior managers are made at Board meetings markets and innovation.
visits to operations around the Group: and on a regular basis.
The Board also usually holds provision of current and historical information at least one Board meeting a year at a Croda about the Company and the Group and operating site.
In September the Board held its The size and composition specic details on duties of Directors.
meeting in Singapore, which gave the Non-Executive Directors the opportunity to visit of the Board encourages Board Support our Singapore manufacturing site, observe the Each Director has access to the Company good open debate.
operations at first hand and to meet with the Secretary for his advice and services.
Where senior management and local employees of our necessary the Directors may take independent Asian region and gain their insight into the Asian professional advice at the Companys expense.
Non-Executive Directors also Directors are granted an indemnity from the undertake site visits on an individual basis.
Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their positions to the extent permitted Prior to each meeting, the Company Secretary by law.
In addition the Company maintained ensures papers and other information are Directors and Ofcers liability insurance cover delivered sufciently in advance of the meeting throughout the year.
to assist in ensuring that each Director has the time and resources to full their duties.
35 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION During the year the Board moved to the During 2012 no Non-Executive Director or electronic distribution of Board papers via the Chairman had served on the Board for iPad.
This ensures Directors have more time more than nine years from the date of their On joining Croda, Directors to review the information for Board meetings first election.
and embrace more efficient methods of receive a tailored induction The terms and conditions of appointment of communication.
Non-Executive Directors can be viewed on programme based on Non-Executive Directors the Companys website www.
Croda complies with the Code in having They can be inspected during normal business their experience as a experienced Non-Executive Directors who hours at the Companys registered ofce by Director of a listed represent a source of strong advice, judgement contacting the Group General Counsel and and challenge to the Executive Directors.
Company Secretary and will be available for company and knowledge At present there are five such Directors, inspection at the AGM.
including the Chairman and the Senior of the industry sector.
Training Independent Director, Nigel Turner, each of The Board receives regular briengs from whom has significant commercial experience.
the Company Secretary on governance, legal Their understanding of the Groups operations and regulatory matters and briengs from is enhanced by regular business presentations the Companys professional advisers.
As noted and by site visits.
on page 30 personalised training and The independence of the Non-Executive development plans have been prepared for Directors is kept under review.
The Chairman each Non-Executive Director for 2013. was independent on his appointment in Time Commitment 2005 but, as Chairman, is not classied as Each Director is aware of the need to allocate independent.
Steve Williams has consultancy sufficient time to the Company to discharge their roles with Eversheds LLP, which provides some responsibilities effectively.
The Board monitors legal services to the Group and Spencer Stuart, the extent of any interest and conicts of each a search consultancy rm that has previously Director.
During the year Alan Ferguson been used by the Group.
The Board does not undertook a temporary role providing financial consider that these roles would affect his support to Lonmin Plc who were undertaking judgement in relation to Croda and its business a renancing and rights issue.
Mr Ferguson and, therefore, it is the Boards opinion that all had previously been Chief Financial officer of the Non-Executive Directors who have served Lonmin, a role he had held until the end of 2011. during the year are independent in character Before agreeing to full the temporary role, and judgement with no relationships or Mr Ferguson discussed this appointment with circumstances which are likely to affect, the Chairman.
Mr Fergusons commitment and or could appear to affect, their judgement.
availability to Croda and in his role as Chairman The Board has an established process for of the Audit Committee were not affected.
declaring and monitoring actual and potential External Consultants conicts.
The Articles of Association of the The Board effectiveness review was conducted Company allow the non-conicted members by Sheena Crane, an experienced consultant, of the Board to authorise a conict or potential who does not have any other connection with conict situation.
In addition to the potential the Company.
New Bridge Street, now part of conicts of Steve Williams noted above, Nigel Aon plc, acts as remuneration consultant to Turner declared a potential conict in relation to the Remuneration Committee.
Whilst the the possible sale of farm produce oilseed rape Aon group provides insurance services to through agents to Croda.
In November 2012 the Company, these services are not provided Sean Christie was appointed as a non-executive by New Bridge Street.
director of Eminate, a subsidiary of Nottingham University whose IP could possibly be of interest to Croda.
After careful review the Board authorised these potential conicts.
Details of the professional commitments of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are included in their biographies on pages 28 and 29.
The Board is satisfied that these do not interfere with the performance of their respective duties to the Company.
As noted above, during the year Sean Christie was appointed as a non-executive director of Eminate.
Details of the payments received in respect of this appointment are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 48.
36 Corporate Governance Accountability The Audit Committee In particular there are clear procedures and dened authorities to act for: The Audit Committee Report, which describes s &INANCIALREPORTING  the membership of the Audit Committee, its and preparation of the financial statements.
A clear framework of controls which are expected responsibilities, its main activities during the to be in place is documented and each reporting location prepares an annual self assessment year and its priorities for 2013, is set out on of compliance with these controls.
This is assured via planned internal audit visits which are pages 38 and 39. approved by the Audit Committee.
Risk Management and Internal Control s #  The Board acknowledges its responsibility for Risk Management Committee.
The Groups approach to risk management is discussed in more ensuring the maintenance of a sound system detail in the Financial Review on pages 16 to 19 and in the Groups separate Sustainability Report.
of internal controls and risk management.
In accordance with the Turnbull guidance s #APITALINVESTMENT  RISKANALYSIS AUTHORISATIONANDPOST INVESTMENTREVIEW 2005 and in order to discharge this responsibility, the Directors have utilised an organisational structure with clear operating The Board has discharged its responsibility for reviewing the operational effectiveness procedures, lines of responsibility, and of the systems of internal control and risk management throughout the financial year and up to delegated authority.
the date of approval of the annual report using a process which involved: s  operation of those elements of the system for which they are responsible: s  0-',  #ONTROL Manager to the Audit Committee: and s  Such a system is designed to mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board also, where appropriate, ensures that necessary actions have been, or are being, taken to remedy significant failings or weaknesses identied from the review of effectiveness of internal controls.
Relations with Shareholders Communication with Shareholders The Company recognises the importance to listen to their views in order to help develop of communicating with its shareholders.
a balanced understanding of the issues and The Company recognises The Group Chief Executive and the Group concerns of major shareholders.
The Board Finance Director maintain regular contact considers that there is sufficient dialogue with the importance of with major shareholders and they ensure that shareholders through the Group Chief Executive, their views are communicated to the Board Group Finance Director and the Chairman, communicating with its as a whole through the reporting of feedback who meet with shareholders on a regular shareholders.
from shareholder meetings and the provision basis.
These meetings provide an appropriate of brokers reports.
The Board invites the mechanism for the views of shareholders to Companys brokers and financial public relations be listened to and the Board is regularly advisers to attend at least one meeting each apprised of shareholders views and key issues.
year at which the economic and investment The Board does not believe that it is necessary environment, Crodas performance, both for the Senior Independent Director or other generally, and in comparison with its sector Non-Executive Directors to attend further peers, and investor reaction are discussed.
All the Non-Executive Directors are, however, available The Chairman met with shareholders throughout to attend such meetings if requested by the year and he and the Non-Executive Directors shareholders and the Senior Independent attended the Companys results announcements Director would be available to discuss matters and capital markets day.
relating to the Chairman should the need arise.
The Company has not complied with part of The Board believes both that its practices are Code provision E. 1.1, which provides that consistent with the relevant main principle of the non-executive directors should be offered the Code concerning dialogue with shareholders opportunity to attend scheduled meetings with and are consistent with good governance.
major shareholders and that the senior independent director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders 37 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Shareholder Information Substantial Shareholders Ordinary shares % of share capital As at 31 December 2012, the Company had received notication of the following Mondrian Investment Partners 6,180,992 4.57% material shareholdings pursuant to the Legal & General Investment Management 5,404,596 3.99% Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority: MFS Investment Management 4,935,950 3.65% Investor Concentration Analysis of ordinary shareholders as at 31 December 2012 Number of % of issued Geographical breakdown shares capital UK 87,362,632 62.43% Geographical Europe excluding UK 21,892,148 15.64% breakdown of shares North America 26,083,789 18.64% Asia 3,700,869 2.64% Rest of World 910,531 0.65% Number of Number of % of issued Size of holding holders shares capital 1-1000 2,455 590,966 0.42% 1,001-5,000 2,037 2,155,772 1.54% Size of 5,001-10,000 679 2,169,043 1.55% holding 10,001-50,000 234 1,662,518 1.19% 50,001-100,000 268 6,266,359 4.48% 100,001-500,000 101 7,375,064 5.27% 500,001-upwards 190 119,730,247 85.55% Number of Number of % of issued Type of holder holders shares capital Private holders 3,370 7,442,755 5.32% Type of Institutional and corporate holders 2,590 126,800,216 90.60% holder Treasury shares 1 4,646,198 3.32% Shares held in Croda trusts 3 1,060,800 0.76% Annual General Meeting Deadlines for Exercising Voting Rights The Annual General Meeting AGM provides The AGM will be held at Carlton Towers, Votes are exercisable at a General Meeting an opportunity for private shareholders to raise Carlton, Goole, East Yorkshire DN14 9LZ on of the Company in respect of which the questions with the members of the Board.
The Thursday, 25 April 2013 at 12 noon.
business being voted upon is being heard.
Directors are also available to answer questions Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, after the meeting in a more informal setting.
The or in relation to corporate members, by annual report and accounts, including notice of corporate representatives.
The Articles of AGM, are sent to shareholders at least twenty Association of the Company provide a deadline working days before the meeting.
There is a for submission of proxy forms of not less than separate investor relations section on the 48 hours before the time appointed for the Companys website www.
com which holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
includes, amongst other items, presentations made to analysts.
38 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report of the Audit Committee for the financial year 31 December 2012 Governance Members and attendance eligibility at meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2012.
Meetings during the year 4 Current members Alan Ferguson Chairman 4 4 Stanley Musesengwa 4 4 Nigel Turner 4 4 Steve Williams 4 4 Dear Shareholder, The Key Responsibilities of the Committee are to: The Committee is made up of four Non-Executive s #OMPANY Directors.
The Board considers the Chairman including its annual and half-yearly reports, interim management statements, preliminary Alan Ferguson and each of the members to be results announcements and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance: independent within the denition of the Code s  and that each of them has relevant financial experience.
Alan Ferguson has held a number s #OMPANY  of senior financial roles, most recently as Chief management systems: Financial officer of Lonmin Plc and is currently chairman of the Audit Committee of two other s #OMPANY  THE FTSE 100 companies.
This provides the Board procedures for detecting fraud and the systems and controls for the prevention of bribery: with assurance that the Audit Committee has the appropriate skills and experience and that s #OMPANY  it meets the Code requirements that at least the Companys overall risk management system: one member of the Committee has significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
s  RE APPOINTMENTAND removal of the Companys external auditor: The Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group s DEVELOP #OMPANY  Financial Controller, the Group Risk and Control non-audit services by the external auditor, taking into account any relevant ethical guidance on Manager and representatives from the external the matter: and internal auditors regularly attend meetings by invitation.
The Committee periodically meets s  separately with the Group Risk and Control terms of engagement: Manager, who is responsible for the internal audit function, and also with the external auditors s  without the Executives being present.
resources and the effectiveness of the audit process: and The Committees remit is to assist the Board to s MONITORTHECO  full its responsibility for ensuring that the Groups financial systems provide accurate and up to The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the 2013 AGM to respond to any questions date information on its financial position and that shareholders may raise on any of the Committees activities.
the Groups published financial statements represent a true and fair reection of this position.
Key Financial Reporting and Accounting issues In undertaking its role of monitoring the financial Intangible assets: the Committee reviewed the assumptions made in testing for impairment.
statements and results announcements of the Inventory: the Committee reviewed the carrying value of inventory and considered this Company, the Committee reviewed whether was appropriate.
suitable accounting policies had been adopted Pensions: the Committee continued to monitor the Groups pension arrangements, and in particular and whether management had made the liability in respect of the dened benefit plans in the UK, US and Netherlands.
The Committee appropriate estimates and judgements.
With considered managements actuarial assumptions to be reasonable.
support from the external auditors, the key Provisions: the Committee reviewed whether certain environmental, reorganisation, fair value, financial reporting and accounting issues were litigation and other legal provisions were considered sufficient to cover estimated costs and were discussed and the main issues for the year satisfied they were reasonable and appropriate.
ended 31 December 2012 are described in the following table.
Tax: the Committee reviewed the basis of calculation of the effective tax rate.
39 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Main Activities During the Year External Auditors Audit and Non-Audit Fees Audit independence The Committee met four times during the year The total fees paid to the Groups external The Committee and the Board place great and I reported the key issues covered to the auditors,  LLP PwC in emphasis on the objectivity of the Groups subsequent Board meeting.
The main activities the year ended 31 December 2012 were 2.6m external auditors in their reporting to of the Committee during the year were as follows: 2011: 2.0m of which 1.8m related to non-audit shareholders.
The PwC audit partner is present fees 2011: 1.3m.
Of the total of non-audit fees at all Audit Committee meetings to ensure full s4HE# 1.1m related to work carried out in assisting the communication of matters relating to the audit.
statements and results announcements of implementation of the Groups ERP Enterprise PwC were the Companys joint auditors from the Company and reviewed key financial Resource Planning systems 2011: 0.7m.
This 1970 to 1980 and have been sole auditors since reporting and accounting issues as further cost was capitalised in accordance with the 1981.
To ensure objectivity, the rotation of audit described on page 38.
Companys accounting policy for Intangible Assets.
partners responsibilities within PwC is required s$URINGTHEYEARTHE#OMMITTEEREVIEWED During the year the Committee undertook a by their professions ethical standards, is actively and approved the internal audit plan and detailed review of the provision of non-audit encouraged and has taken place.
The PwC lead considered the results of internal audits, services by PwC and updated the Companys audit partner for the Company has held the the adequacy of managements response policy in this area.
Assignments awarded to position since 2010. to the matters raised and the time taken to PwC are subject to controls by management The scope of the audit was discussed in resolve any such matters.
that have been agreed by the Audit Committee advance by the Audit Committee and audit fees in order to ensure that audit independence is s!TEACHMEETINGTHE#OMMITTEERECEIVED are reviewed by the Committee and then not compromised.
The Chairman of the Audit a report from the chairman of the Risk referred to the Board for approval.
During the Committee is required to give prior approval of Management Committee and the Group year the Committee reviewed PwCs work carried out by PwC and its associates in Risk and Control Manager and monitored effectiveness taking into account the views of excess of predetermined thresholds, which compliance with the Group risk management management and feedback is to be provided to were lowered from 50,000 to 20,000 in programme.
The Groups highest risks were senior members of PwC unrelated to the audit.
recognition by the Committee of the level of discussed and the adequacy of mitigating The Committee considered the degree to which spend on non-audit services performed by PwC.
the auditor was able to assess key accounting Part of the Committee Chairmans review and audit judgements.
A review of effectiveness is to determine that other potential providers of s4HE# also forms part of PwCs own system of quality the services have been properly considered.
The Committee concluded that the audit As first disclosed in the 2010 report and was effective and that the effectiveness should s4HE# accounts, PwC is providing advisory services be kept under review.
in relation to the implementation of the ERP The Committee recognises the changes made s4HE# computer system which increased signicantly by the UK Financial Reporting Council to of the external auditor to confirm the their non-audit activities for 2011 and 2012. mandatorily retender auditors and will discuss appropriateness of their reappointment and Given the nature of these services the full Audit during the year when would be the appropriate undertook a review of the independence and Committee considered and approved PwCs time to retender the audit.
objectivity of the external auditor.
This work, undertaken in a number of the Groups smaller locations, In July, the Committee adopted a policy that s4HE# will continue in 2013 as the Group completes governed how and when employees and non-audit services by the external auditor the roll out of its ERP system to the global sales former employees of the Companys auditors and updated the Companys policy in this area.
All responsibility for the design and can be employed by the Company.
implementation of the ERP system resides with s4HE# management.
This includes managing the for the year, including the scope and Priorities for 2013 systems operation, monitoring its internal materiality level and the audit fees.
controls and ensuring data integrity.
PwCs role  s4HE# is restricted to assessing the systems the recent changes to the UK Corporate material accounting standards and implementation against the design criteria Governance Code, including the governance changes that would impact developed by management.
appropriate timing for audit retender.
The Committee examined carefully the continued s#ONTINUETOMONITOR0W# SNON AUDITFEES use of PwC on the ERP roll out and were satisfied s4HE#  that given their continued high performance and external audit without management the operational finance team.
and excellent knowledge of the Groups systems being present.
In reaching its decision the  s4HE# Committee had regard to the fact that a change terms of reference in the year and prepared in provider could extend completion of the roll  an annual plan to help ensure appropriate out programme considerably, that the mapping exercise.
time is allocated to agenda items.
programme was nearing completion and that PwCs continued role did not compromise their independence as auditor of the Company.
Alan Ferguson Notwithstanding the fact that in 2013 we will incur Chairman of the Audit Committee approximately 0.5m in non-audit fees as PwC complete their work on this three year project, it is the intention that total non-audit spend will not exceed audit spend unless the Committee feels this would be in the best interest of shareholders.
40 Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Governance Members and attendance eligibility at meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2012.
Meetings during the year 2 Current members Martin Flower Chairman 2 2 Alan Ferguson 2 2 Steve Foots appointed 1 January 2012 2 2 Stanley Musesengwa 2 2 Nigel Turner 2 2 Steve Williams 2 2 Dear Shareholder, The Key Responsibilities of the Committee are to: The Nomination Committee consists of the s  SIZEANDCOMPOSITION INCLUDINGTHESKILLS KNOWLEDGE EXPERIENCE Chairman of the Board, the Non-Executive and diversity of the Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
Directors and the Group Chief Executive.
It meets on an ad hoc basis and is responsible s $%XECUTIVESINTHE for nominating, for approval by the Board, course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and candidates for appointment to the Board what skills and expertise are therefore needed on the Board in the future.
"s 7HEREA""  KNOWLEDGE EXPERIENCEAND Main Activities During the Year diversity on the Board and, in the light of that evaluation, prepare a description of the role and During the year the Committee recommended capabilities required for a particular appointment."
"that the Board extend Nigel Turners term of ofce for a further three years until May s DENTIFYANDNOMINATE FORTHEAPPROVALOFTHE""OARD CANDIDATESTOlLL""OARDVACANCIESASAND 2015 and that he retain his role as Senior when they arise."
ON %XECUTIVE The Committee carried out its customary with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the corporate governance review and was satisfied marketplace: that the size, structure and composition of the Board and the required time commitment from s .
"ON %XECUTIVE$IRECTORANDTHE#HAIRMAN Non-Executive Directors remained appropriate and that all the Non-Executive Directors """"OARD continued to full the criteria of independence and were able to commit the required time for The Chairman of the Nomination Committee will be available at the 2013 AGM to respond to any the proper performance of their duties."
questions shareholders may raise on any of the Committees activities.
In accordance with the Code, all Non-Executive Directors with a term beyond six years have been subject to a rigorous review.
In January 2013 the Committee recommended the Priorities for 2013 extension of Stanley Musesengwas term of s  ofce for a further one year to May 2014, which recent Board evaluation, review the would bring his term to seven years.
The balance, experience and skills of the Nomination Committee felt the extension of his Board including gender.
term beyond six years was in the best interest of the Company as Mr Musesengwa would  S be asked to take the lead in overseeing the term of ofce in May 2014, undertake a Executive led root and branch remuneration search for a new Non-Executive Director.
review during 2013 and his experience as the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee s$ would be invaluable.
"Since the end of the financial year, the Committee has recommended that the s$EVELOPA""OARDDIVERSITYPOLICY Board extend Steve Williams term of ofce for a further three years until June 2015."
Nigel Turner, Martin Flower Senior Independent Director, also chaired the Chairman of the Nomination Committee Committee in its discussion of Martin Flowers term of ofce.
The Committee recommended the Board extend Martins term of ofce as Chairman of the Board for a further two years until September 2015.
41 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Other Committees The management of the business is delegated In June 2012 Miguel fide Bellis retired and Group SHE Steering Committee The Group operates a Safety, Health and by the Board to the Group Chief Executive.
He Nick Challoner took the role of President Environment SHE Steering Committee that utilises a series of committees to assist him in Latin America.
In this role Nick Challoner joined meets quarterly and monitors progress against this task.
The role of each of the Executive level the Group Executive Committee, the Finance the Group SHE objectives and targets, reviews committees is set out below together with a Committee, the Risk Management Committee safety performance, safety audits and table showing the membership of each and the Group SHE Steering Committee.
determines the requirement for new or revised committee during 2012.
In December 2012 Louise Scott stepped down SHE policies, procedures and objectives.
Stuart as Company Secretary and Legal Counsel and There were a number of changes made to Arnott, President Global Operations replaced Tom Brophy joined as Group General Counsel the Executive level committees during the year.
Kevin Nutbrown as the Chairman of the and Company Secretary.
In this role Tom Brophy Committee in July 2012.
The Committee In February 2012 Steve Foots relinquished his joined the Group Executive Committee, the comprises the Regional Presidents, heads of role as President, Europe and the European Finance Committee, the Risk Management operational functions, the Chief Technology business was divided into two areas under Committee, the Group SHE Steering Committee officer, the Group General Counsel and the leadership of Sandra Breene, President and became an alternate on the Routine Company Secretary, the Group Financial Consumer Care Europe and Maarten Business Committee.
Controller and the Vice President Group SHE.
Heybroek, President Performance Group Executive Committee Technologies & Industrial Chemicals Europe.
Routine Business Committee The Committee meets quarterly and its remit Consequently, both have joined the Group The Routine Business Committee comprises the is responsibility for the development and Executive Committee, the Finance Committee, Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance implementation of strategy, operational plans, the Risk Management Committee and the Director with the Group General Counsel and policies, procedures and budgets, the Group SHE Steering Committee.
Company Secretary and Group Financial monitoring of operating and financial Controller acting as alternates.
The Committee Graham Myers Group Financial Controller performance, the assessment and control of risk may make decisions with one Executive Director and Treasurer, was appointed to the Group and the prioritisation and allocation of resources.
and the alternate for the other Executive Director Executive Committee and Risk Management Finance Committee being present.
It attends to business of a routine Committee in July 2012.
Graham was already The Finance Committee meets monthly to nature and to the administration of matters, a member of the Finance Committee and joins review monthly operating results, identify the principles of which have been agreed the Group SHE Steering Committee.
operational and risk issues and examine previously by the Board or the Group At the end of June 2012 Kevin Nutbrown retired capital expenditure proposals.
and Stuart Arnott took the role of President Risk Management Committee Global Operations.
In this role Stuart Arnott The Committees role is to evaluate, propose joined the Group Executive Committee, the policies and monitor processes to control the Finance Committee, the Risk Management business, operational and compliance risks Committee and became Chairman of the faced by the Group.
It normally meets four Group SHE Steering Committee.
Group Executive Finance Risk Management Committee Membership Committee Committee Committee Steve Foots Group Chief Executive 1 Stuart Arnott President Global Operations David Barraclough President Asia 2 Sandra Breene President Consumer Care Europe 3 Tom Brophy Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Sean Christie Group Finance Director 4 Nick Challoner President Latin America Kevin Gallagher President North America 5 Maarten Heybroek President Performance Technologies & Industrial Chemicals Europe Keith Layden Chief Technology officer Graham Myers Group Financial Controller and Treasurer Members who left during the year 6 Miguel fide Bellis formerly President Latin America 7 Kevin Nutbrown formerly President Global Operations 8 Louise Scott formerly Company Secretary and Legal Counsel Chairman Member Attendee 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Joined in July 2012 Joined in February 2012 Joined in December 2012 Joined in June 2012 Joined in February 2012 Left in June 2012 Left in June 2012 Left in December 2012
