Corporate governance report evaluation and management of risks the Board and its Committees associated with the conduct of the function to ensure compliance with Groups business, and the the principles of corporate implementation of new processes or governance.
In this report and the reporting systems to enable the Business Review on pages 40 to 44, directors to ensure that they receive we also explain how we encourage relevant and timely information on the our employees across the Group to Group in connection with meeting its accept their individual accountability objectives and to support the Board for ensuring that the Group as a in the performance of its duties.
whole operates to high standards of governance.
As a unitary Board, your directors Ron Mackintosh also have a shared responsibility for Corporate Chairman the long term success of the Group.
This is performed through the Governance Report formulation and execution of the Statement of compliance Groups strategy, making enquiries of  management, assessing , performance, demonstrating therefore,  independence, knowledge and , theBoard experience and holding management Chairmans introduction  to account.
We consider the Board is Your Board is accountable to the  sufficiently diverse, having regard for Companys shareholders for creating  the provisions of the UK Corporate and delivering sustainable shareholder  Governance Code the Code on value through the management of the  diversity, and has the right balance of Groups business.
A key aspect of CorporateGovernance theCode.
this is our commitment that the Board  This balance and diversity is and all employees operate to high  periodically evaluated and, in standards of corporate governance,  considering new appointments to the which we consider to be fundamental .
The Board, attention is given to sustaining to business integrity and enabling the  the appropriate balance, with due Group to operate successfully.
thenewCode, publishedinSeptember regard for the evolution of the Group.
Fulfillment of the principles of good  governance is founded on personal  In 2012, we believe CSR took further accountability of members of the 1October2012.
Inthisreport, we important steps in delivering its long Board and all employees.
I and your  term strategic objectives, most other Board members believe this is .
significant being the disposal in driven from the top of the Company October 2012 of the handset The Companys American depositary and should pervade throughout the connectivity and handset location receipts are listed on the NASDAQ organisation.
development operations and Stock Market LLC NASDAQ and technology to Samsung Electronics Together with my fellow directors, we the Company is therefore subject to Co. Ltd. Samsung.
Atthe same expect all employees to act honestly, the rules of the NASDAQ and US time, the Company was actively with integrity and fairness and this is Securities laws and the rules of the engaged in meeting targets identified supported by established policies and US Securities and Exchange as part of the effective integration of is reinforced through a culture that is Commission the SEC applicable to what had been the separate CSR and driven from the Board members foreign private issuers.
Zoran businesses, following the across the organisation.
As an Other than the provision relating to acquisition of Zoran completed in the increasingly global business, the the balance of executive and nonautumn of 2011, as well as Board expects its various operations executive directors on the Board, the improvements in key processes to act in accordance with the laws Board has complied with the associated with delivering new and customs of the countries in which provisions of the Code.
For the period products and technologies.
Your they operate, adopt proper standards from 2 January 2012 to 30 June Board has played an active role in of business practice and procedures 2012, the provision of the Code on matters concerned directly with these and respect the culture of every the balance of independent nonchanges, whilst also ensuring country where we do business.
executive directors and of executive continued focus on ensuring the Together with the executive team who directors was not met.
Company and the wider Group has day-to-day management of the continue to conduct its business in business, the Board plays a key role For the period from 2 January 2012 keeping with the principles of good in setting these standards.
Your to 30 June 2012, the Board governance and sound management.
Board receives regular reports across comprised the Chairman, Mr. Ron all aspects of the Groups business, Mackintosh, four independent nonThe following report, which includes including in areas directly related to executive directors, being on pages 58 to 62 the report of the good governance.
These range from Mr. Anthony Carlisle, Mr. Andrew Audit Committee, and the separate matters such as the progress in Allner, Mr. Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio report of the Remuneration implementing training associated with and Ms. Teresa Vega, one nonCommittee on pages 66 to 75, the UK Bribery Act, which has executive director, who was not explains how the Board operates, the continued through 2012, to the independent, Dr Levy Gerzberg, who roles of the Board members and how 52 53 www.
During 2012, the Board and Dr. Levy Gerzberg, who was a Corporate gave significant attention to the co-founder of Zoran and previously Governance Report impact of the disposal of the handset their chief executive officer, a operations to Samsung and the company acquired by CSR on continued associated restructuring of the Group.
Mr. Chris Stone The Board has received regular joined the Board as a non-executive reports on the implementation of the director on 16 July 2012 and is new organisation structure, the considered independent.
recruitment of additional people Mr. Mackintosh has served as necessary to support the Groups Chairman of the Board since May objectives, including, as appropriate, 2007 and as a non-executive director smaller acquisitions of new of the Company since May 2004.
In joined the Board following the capabilities that complement our the opinion of the Board, on each of acquisition of Zoran Corporation in strategy.
These form part of broader his appointments as a non-executive August 2011 and four executive considerations associated with director and as Chairman, directors, being Mr. Joep van succession planning, which is Mr. Mackintosh was independent of Beurden, Chief Executive Officer, expected to be an area of attention in management.
The Board is satisfied Mr. Will Gardiner, Chief Financial 2013. that Mr. Mackintosh is able to devote Officer, Mr. Kanwar Chadha, Chief Ethics policy the necessary time commitment to Marketing Officer and Mr. Chris All employees of the Group, including the role of Chairman of the Board.
the directors and senior officers, must Mr. Anthony Carlisle has served as With effect from 30 June 2012, comply with the Groups Ethics the Senior Independent Director since Mr. Kanwar Chadha, Chief Marketing Policy, which was first adopted in May 2009 and Mr. Andrew Allner, a Officer, stood down from the Board.
2009 following the Companys chartered accountant with recent and Following Mr. Chadhas resignation, registration with the SEC.
In addition, relevant financial experience, has the balance of the Board complied the Company has adopted an served as Chairman of the Audit with the Code.
Executive Ethics Policy that applies to Committee since May 2009.
Board members, senior officers and On 16 July 2012, Mr. Chris Stone Mr. Gardiner is the director other specified employees and is joined the board as a non-executive responsible for health and safety.
intended to meet the code of ethics director.
Mr. Stone is considered by Mr. Brett Gladden served as requirements of Section 406 of the the Board to be independent of Company Secretary throughout the US SarbanesOxley Act.
the Executive Ethics Policy may be extensive experience as a senior found at www.
Board balance and diversity executive and in his most recent Information on the Companys The Board believes that it has an former role, at Northgate Information website is not incorporated by appropriate balance of diverse skills Solutions, was responsible for reference in the filing of the Form 20-F and experience that contribute to the growing a business with world leading with the SEC.
effective performance of the business positions in a dynamic technology The following statements describe and contribution of the Board.
how the Board operates and the Board includes executive and nonThe Board recognizes that respective roles of the Chairman, executive directors with extensive Dr Gerzberg does not satisfy the non-executive and executive knowledge of the background and requirements under the Code as an directors.
We independent non-executive director believe that the directors have a wide The Board based on his previous executive role experience in industries relevant to As at 28 December 2012, the Board within Zoran.
The Board however those in which the Group operates.
comprised ten members, being the considers that Dr Gerzbergs This experience encompasses the Chairman, Mr. Ron Mackintosh, three experience and considerable cycle of product research, executive directors and six nonknowledge of Zoran and of its development, strategic marketing and executive directors, one of whom is technologies and markets has and will communications, customer not independent.
Of those in post as continue to contribute significantly to knowledge, and wider corporate at 28 December 2012, nine directors the understanding of the Board and development, including financial including Mr. Mackintosh had served to the conduct of its business.
management and experience in throughout the year.
The Board The Board remains satisfied that an believes that it is important to The three executive directors in office appropriate balance of skills and consider board diversity within the at 28 December 2012 who had experience has been in place to context of ensuring those appointed served throughout the year were enable the Board to perform its to the Board are able to contribute Mr. Joep van Beurden, Chief responsibilities effectively.
An effectively based on relevant skills and Executive Officer, Mr. Will Gardiner, overview of the balance of skills and knowledge.
The Board acknowledges Chief Financial Officer, and Mr. Chris experience on the Board is given developments in promoting broader Ladas, Operations Director.
diversity on company boards that non-executive directors who served reflect the wider gender, ethnicity and Succession planning and throughout the year, four of whom are cultural backgrounds that make up organisational development considered independent of our society.
The Board is supportive The Board recognises the importance management, were Mr. Anthony of such matters and is satisfied that in that succession planning plays in Carlisle, Mr. Andrew Allner, Mr. Sergio its consideration of the composition of supporting the delivery of the Groups Giacoletto-Roggio, Ms. Teresa Vega CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Corporate governance report the Board and in executive The Chairmans role is to ensure that meeting agreed goals and objectives management, the Company reflects the Board functions effectively, and monitor the reporting of this principle.
In the appointment of overseeing the timely and effective performance of management.
personnel to roles in the Company, provision of information to the Board Non-executive directors attend including those at Board level, the and that the business of the Board is meetings with management outside Company has demonstrated its properly conducted.
Briefing papers the normal cycle of formal meetings, willingness to promulgate diversity and a meeting agenda are provided either to receive updates in areas of where this is also consistent with to each director in advance of each specific interest or to discuss the ensuring people are appointed who meeting.
Decisions are taken by the planning and execution of tasks possess the necessary talent and Board, taking into account, where connected with specific matters, experience to support the Company appropriate, the recommendations of which, in 2012, included assessing and Board in its activities.
its Committees and advice from the strategic and business case for external consultants and executive Reflecting the global market within the disposal of the handset management, as appropriate.
which the Group operates, the Board operations to Samsung and comprises directors from five different The Board regularly reviews strategy subsequently preparing nationalities with experience of as part of its normal business.
This documentation issued to managing businesses in each of the includes holding off-site meetings shareholders to approve the disposal.
continents in which the Group is during each year, the agendas for Independence of non-executive present.
A detailed biography for which cover a broad range of directors and segregation of duties each member of the Board is given financial, commercial and technical In accordance with the provisions of on pages 51 and 52. aspects concerning the strategic the Code, consideration has been objectives for the Group.
In 2012, the The conduct of the business of the given to the independence of all the one off-site meeting was held in the Board non-executive directors.
The Board summer, with members of the The Board meets regularly during the considers all the non-executive management team attending.
As part year as well as on an ad hoc basis as directors to be independent of of the process for reviewing strategy required by time critical business management and free from any both within its normal business and needs.
Primarily in connection with business or other relationship that the off-site review, the Board the disposal of the handset could materially interfere with the considers the known and potential operations to Samsung, a number of exercise of independent judgement.
challenges associated with the ad hoc meetings were held in 2012 The Board considers that Dr. execution of the objectives.
The beyond the scheduled business.
Gerzberg, formerly Chief Executive Board also considers the risks to the Officer and a co-founder of Zoran Group in delivering the strategy, The Board is responsible for the Corporation, acts in a manner which assessing managements mitigation overall conduct of the Groups is independent of management and of identified risks and also to what business and is accountable to the Company.
extent risks should be accepted in the shareholders for the effective and execution of its objectives.
proper management and control of The division of responsibilities the Company and Group and has a between the non-executive Chairman The non-executive directors of the formal schedule of matters reserved and Mr. van Beurden, Chief Executive Board have diverse business, financial for its decisions.
These include the Officer CEO, is sufficiently clear and technical experience, details of review and approval of: and established in the opinion of the which are summarised on pages 51 Board that it is not required that it be and 52.
Each non-executive directorGroup strategy and long term plans: formally documented.
The Chairman plays a full role in contributing to the the annual budget and plan: is responsible for the running and determination of agenda items and leadership of the Board.
the consideration of matters broughtacquisitions and disposals and before the Board.
This includes: requests for major capital It is the responsibility of the Chairman expenditure: considering, approving and to: monitoring performance againstGroup financial structure, including run the Board and set its agenda, strategic objectives through detailed tax and treasury: and taking into account the concerns of reviews conducted at Board level: all Board members:annual and quarterly financial results providing entrepreneurial leadership and other significant financial ensure that Board members receive within a framework of prudent and matters.
accurate, timely and clear effective controls, which were information, in particular about the The process of review and approval created to enable risks to be Companys performance, to enable of the foregoing matters is undertaken assessed and managed: and the Board to carry out its duties following discussions in conjunction setting the Groups values and effectively: with senior executive management, standards and ensuring that its who in turn are responsible for theenable constructive debate and obligations to shareholders and conduct of the Groups operations effective decision making, ensuring other stakeholders are understood and for reporting to the Board on the sufficient time is allowed for and met.
progress being made in meeting the discussion of complex or objectives.
The schedule of matters contentious issues: Non-executive directors are expected reserved for the Board was reviewed to constructively challenge andensure that Board decisions are in December 2012. contribute to the development of the effectively implemented: Groups strategy, scrutinise the performance of management in 54 55 www.
provisions of the new Code and its Corporate Representatives from these teams guidance on the conduct at least Governance Report attend and report to an executive once every three years of an leadership forum which includes the evaluation of the performance of the continued executive directors.
The CEO also Board supported by an external meets regularly with the managers agent.
In the autumn of 2011, and leaders in various established Armstrong Bonham-Carter was forums that fit with the operational appointed to support the evaluation cycles of the Group.
The CEO process to consider the effectiveness formally reports at each meeting of of the Board, and its Committees, the Board on salient matters arising individual contributions and the from the execution of his Groups performance as a whole.
The promote the highest standards of responsibilities.
evaluation was conducted through corporate governance and business the latter part of 2011.
The Board receives reports within its ethics throughout the Group: and normal business on the activities Armstrong Bonham-Carter submitted ensure effective communication with across the Group, including strategic, their reports and findings on the shareholders.
financial, commercial and on human Board and its Committees during resources.
Overall the findings The CEO is responsible for leading the executive management that report were that the Board and its and managing the business within the into the CEO attend these meetings Committees were performing authorities delegated by the Board and report on areas of their effectively.
The Board implemented and to promote the interests of the responsibility.
At these meetings, the specific actions addressing findings Company and Group as a whole.
Board will receive status reports on arising from the review.
In its 2012 progress against specific targets, for performance review which was led by It is the responsibility of the CEO to: example in performance against the Chairman with the support of the devote substantially the whole of his project milestones, or assessments Secretary, the Board considered both time and his attention and skill to the on the launch of new products.
This the performance during the year and duties of his office: will include an assessment of any the progress in addressing the potential risks associated with the specific actions arising from the 2011develop strategy proposals for deliverables and possible mitigation review, for example in enhancements recommendation to the Board and measures.
As a global business, the to the scope and content of regular ensure that agreed strategies and Board considers it important to reports considered by the Board and associated plans are reflected in the receive information on the business of also in giving further time during the business: the offices across the world.
year to consideration of the be responsible to the Board for the Accordingly, reports are provided by appropriate composition of the performance of the business the executive management on the Board, the latter item resulting in the consistent with agreed strategy, results of their visits to the Groups appointment in July 2012 of Mr. Chris plans and policies: offices, as well as meetings with Stone to the Board.
The conclusion customers and suppliers.
The Board at all times keep the Board and the was that in these matters good is proposing to visit two of the Chairman promptly and fully progress had been made in Groups locations outside of the informed of his conduct of the addressing the areas for attention.
United Kingdom during 2013. business and affairs of the Company The Board was also satisfied with the and of the Group as a whole and performance of the Board and its The Board met 13 times during the provide such explanations as the Committees.
year through scheduled regular Board or the Chairman may require meetings and ad hoc meetings Policy on appointment and rein connection therewith: and reflecting the business needs of the appointment faithfully and diligently perform such Group and the attendance of each of In accordance with the provisions of duties and exercise such powers, the directors is shown on page 65. the Code, which was effective for the consistent with the office to which Meetings of duly appointed reporting period of the Company he is appointed, as is from time to committees to the Board met a commencing on 1 January 2011, the time assigned or vested in him by further nine times enacting elements Board determined to adopt the the Board.
of business specifically delegated and provisions in regards to election and which were attended by at least one re-election of directors ahead of the The CEO has day-to-day non-executive director and two Codes actual implementation date.
Accordingly, all directors serving on executive management, who are the Board have stood for re-election responsible for the performance of Evaluation of the performance of since the Annual General Meeting discrete commercial and operational the Board held in May 2011, and this practice activities of the Group, report to the The Board has undertaken an annual will continue for future AGMs.
The executive management evaluation of the performance of the includes management teams Board and its Committees on which it Mr. Stone was appointed a nonresponsible for reviewing the has reported since 2006.
Since executive director with effect from implementation of established inception of the evaluation until 2011, 16 July 2012 and has a letter of objectives and assessing these evaluations have been appointment effective for a three year performance of particular functions conducted through a written survey term from that date.
In accordance prepared by the Company Secretary.
with the Companys Articles, The Board has considered the Mr. Stone will be offering himself for CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Corporate governance report election at the 2013 Annual General understanding of objectives with its Committee.
He stood down as a Meeting being the first Annual General major shareholders through regular member of the Audit Committee in Meeting of the Company since his meetings and presentations following April 2012.
Ms. Vega served as a appointment.
announcements of each quarters member of the Audit Committee from results.
Mr. Stone served as a Further information on Mr. Stone who engagement with all shareholders, member of the Remuneration is standing for election and each of including smaller investors, is Committee from December 2012. the directors standing for re-election important and welcomes the Mr. Mackintosh chairs the Nomination is set forth in the Notice of the Annual attendance of shareholders at the Committee, is a member of the General Meeting, which is in a Companys Annual General Meeting Remuneration Committee and separate document issued to all which in 2013 will be held in London.
attends meetings of the Audit shareholders.
For the meeting in 2012, Committee by invitation.
arrangements included an area set On appointment, all directors are In accordance with the Code, the aside to show applications of the asked to confirm they have sufficient duties of the Committees are set out Companys technologies in various time to devote to their duties which, in formal terms of reference.
These products, including demonstrations along with their duties and roles, are are available from the Company provided by members of the project confirmed in their letter of Secretary and can be found on the teams.
They are also advised Companys website, www.
that they have access to the advice The Senior Independent Director, Membership of the Committees is and services of the Company Mr. Anthony Carlisle, is available to shown on pages 51 and 52.
Secretary and, in addition, that they meet institutional shareholders should Information on the Companys are entitled to seek independent there be unresolved matters they wish website is not incorporated by professional advice in the furtherance to bring to his attention.
The Board is reference in the filing of this Annual of their duties, if necessary, at the also apprised of discussions with Report with the US Securities and Companys expense.
As part of their major shareholders to ensure that Exchange Commission.
The induction, the directors are provided executive and non-executive directors Company Secretary acts as secretary with information explaining their role consider any matters which might be to each of the Committees.
Each and duties, in addition to background raised by those shareholders and to Committee undertakes an annual information on the Company and enable all directors to understand review of its terms of reference and Group as well as the function and shareholders views.
This includes makes recommendations to the recent deliberations of the Board and feedback from the meetings attended Board for changes where its Committees by way of recent by executive directors and the appropriate.
The Board considers that papers and reports, for example Chairman, in addition to reports from the terms of reference of these those from the auditors in the most the Companys advisers on their Committees are generally responsive recent full financial year.
Following his engagement with shareholders on to the relevant NASDAQ rules but appointment in July 2012, Mr. Stone behalf of the Company.
During 2012, may not address all aspects of these met with members of the Board and the Chairman engaged with a number rules, see US Listing Requirements executive management, in addition to of shareholders to discuss the on pages 63 to 65. advisers to the Company, in order to proposed disposal of the handset support his induction.
Remuneration Committee operations to Samsung and Mr. Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio was proposals for the return of capital to Directors are also provided with throughout 2012 the Chairman of the shareholders, and to discuss the information and assistance in the Remuneration Committee, a position Groups strategy.
event of any change in their role.
The Non-executive directors attend the other members of the Committee at Indemnities to Directors Annual General Meetings and will also 28 December 2012 were Messrs.
In accordance with the Companys make themselves available to meet Allner, Carlisle, Stone and Articles of Association, directors are with shareholders on other occasions Mackintosh.
granted an indemnity from the where requested.
Corporate Company to the extent permitted by The principal function of the information is available on the law in respect of liabilities incurred as Remuneration Committee is to Companys website, www.
a result of the performance of their establish and review the terms and Information on the website is not duties in their capacity as directors of conditions for the executive directors, incorporated by reference in the filing the Company.
The indemnity would and the overall policy framework for of the Form 20-F with the US not provide any coverage to the the remuneration of other senior Securities and Exchange extent that a director is proven to executives and the Group as a whole.
have acted fraudulently or The Remuneration Committee met dishonestly.
The Company has also Committees of the Board four times during the year and the arranged insurance coverage in The Board has three Committees, attendance of its members is shown respect of legal action against the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination.
in the table on page 65. directors and officers.
Throughout the year, each of The report to shareholders on the role Mr. Allner and Mr. Carlisle were Communications with shareholders of the Remuneration Committee and members of the Remuneration, Audit The Board makes considerable efforts how directors are remunerated, and Nomination Committees.
to maintain good relationships with together with details of individual Mr. Giacoletto-Roggio was shareholders.
Principally via the directors remuneration are set out on throughout the year Chairman of the executive directors, the Company pages 66 to 75.
Remuneration Committee and a seeks to build on a mutual member of the Nomination 56 57 www.
com  reviewed various aspects associated Corporate , with the proposed transaction, Governance Report Mr.  including for example the assessment  of the Groups anticipated revenue continued Rule5605 a 2  profile and cash resources in the NASDAQStockMarket.
period immediately following the disposal and for the longer term.
This The other members of the Audit included consideration of those Committee at 28 December 2012 ongoing revenues expected to be were Mr. Carlisle and Ms. Vega who generated from that part of the joined the Committee in April 2012. handset business retained by the Mr. Mackintosh, Chairman of the Group under the terms of the Board, attends meetings of the Audit Nomination Committee transaction with Samsung.
The Mr. Ron Mackintosh is the Chairman Committee has also reviewed experience and expertise of the of the Nomination Committee, a progress by management in delivering members of the Audit Committee are position he has held since May 2007. key financial targets set at the summarised on pages 51 and 52.
The other members of the Nomination beginning of the financial year.
This The attendance of its members is Committee at 28 December 2012 included overseeing the analysis of shown in the table on page 65.
Each were Messrs. Allner, Carlisle and appropriate revisions to those targets member of the Committee is Giacoletto-Roggio.
in order to reflect the disposal of the financially literate, having the Handset Operations as well as The role of the Nomination Committee necessary ability and experience to subsequent reductions in operating is to consider appointments to the understand financial statements.
costs which have been implemented.
Board and succession planning at As part of encouraging continuous senior levels within the Company.
The The acquisition of Zoran Corporation improvement, the Audit Committee Nomination Committee reviews the in 2011 resulted in the Group supports management in identifying composition of the Board, particularly conducting business in a number of targets and objectives for extending in relation to the diversity of skills, new territories.
The Audit Committee existing processes and ensuring that experience and terms of office and has received reports during 2012 on it works in tandem with changes to seeks to ensure that both executive how the geographic spread of the the Group which are a feature of and non-executive directors have the Group impacts its fiscal strategy and operating in a dynamic industry.
necessary skills and attributes for the planning for tax matters.
Areas in which the Committee worked future success of the Group.
with management in this regard are Recognising the volatile  considered in more detail below.
economic conditions facing the  Group across its various product and  geographical markets, the Committee Introduction from the Chairman of  has considered various matters and the Audit Committee totheBoard.
During2012, the forecasts concerned with the Your Audit Committee believes that it  performance of the Group and how is essential for the success of the RussellReynolds, executivesearch potential or actual adverse Company that there is a sound consultants, whoareindependentof performance against expectations are framework of internal controls, risk theCompany, toundertakeasearch being addressed and where possible management, and management and  measures taken.
This has financial reporting to enable the Board  included the financial standing of to assess the performance of theappointmentofMr.
Stoneeffective customers and consideration, for management in achieving its strategic from16July2012.
TheBoardis example, of terms of business, and operational objectives and hence  including the credit extended to third enable improvement in its business  parties with whom the Group and financial performance.
Stones conducts business and the basis on .
which these are set and reviewed.
In the following sections of this report, The Committee has reviewed we explain how during 2012, the During 2012, the Nomination progress on the implementation of Audit Committee has contributed to Committee did not meet separately, new information systems in support of this process in reviewing and but did meet as part of the formal the Groups strategy, including providing guidance to management in proceedings of the Board to consider changes in the Oracle operating the execution of a number of the appointment of Mr. Stone.
system and two sales-based tools, important projects, linked to the Demantra and SalesForce, that continuing development of the Group Audit Committee support timely sharing of information and also matters associated with Mr. Andrew Allner is the Chairman of in support of the performance of the ongoing regulatory compliance.
In the Audit Committee, a position he business, customer engagement and 2012, one such area of focus was the has held since May 2009.
The Board evaluation of sales opportunities.
review of reports from management has determined that Mr. Allner, a and advisers in connection with the Chartered Accountant, has recent The Committee has also received proposed disposal of the Handset and relevant financial experience for regular reports on the Groups Operations to Samsung including the purposes of the Code and is an implementation of training to meet the those disclosures made to audit committee financial expert for requirements of the UK Bribery Act, shareholders in the circular issued the purposes of US securities laws.
for which the Company was under UK and US reporting recognized at the E-Learning Age requirements.
The Committee CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
