Afren plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Corporate governance statement Chairman and Chief Executive Non-Executive Directors The Board is responsible for providing leadership, setting the Groups Our Non-Executive Directors contribute international operational strategic objectives and key policies, ensuring that appropriate know-how and were chosen for their wide range of skills and resources are in place to enable the Group to meet its objectives, experience.
They understand the sectors in which we operate reviewing the Groups performance and overseeing the Groups andhave valuable knowledge of international capital markets.
internal control systems and is responsible to shareholders for the Inaddition they bring in-depth understanding of the health, safety, proper management of the Group.
At the end of the period of this environmental, political and community challenges we face.
report, the Board comprised a Non-Executive Chairman, three Each Non-Executive Director is appointed for a three-year xed term, Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
All Non-Executive Directors Afren benets from an experienced Board with extensive African appointment letters are available for inspection at the registered experience and relationships plus a broad range of commercial, address of the Company.
financial and other relevant expertise.
Brief biographies are included The Non-Executive Directors: on pages 70 to 71.
The Nomination Committee periodically reviews the composition of the Board including the balance between scrutinise, measure and review the performance of management Executive and Non-Executive Directors and considers succession assist in strategy development planning for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the Groups senior management.
It is also responsible for the process for review the Groups financial information new Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board ensure appropriate and effective systems of internal control and on the appointment of new Directors and is responsible for ensuring risk management that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
review the relationship with the external auditors through the In making appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee Audit and Risk Committee considers the skills, experience and knowledge of the existing Directors and assesses which of the potential candidates would bring review the remuneration of and succession planning for the Board.
the most benefit to the Board.
It considers the potential candidates Senior Independent Director knowledge and experience of the territories in which we operate, Mr Toby Hayward is the Senior Independent Director.
Mr Hayward the oil and gas industry, capital markets and the regulatory was selected for the role because of his experience and expertise.
environment, and that, in the case of Non-Executive Director Inhis role as Senior Independent Director, Mr Hayward is available appointments, they have sufficient time to devote to the role.
The toshareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed Chairman ensures that any new Directors are provided with a full through normal channels.
induction on joining the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, which may be extended Independence of Non-Executive Directors by mutual agreement subject to satisfactory performance.
The letters The independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors is of appointment of each Non-Executive Director are available for considered upon appointment, annually and at any other time inspection at the registered ofce of the Company.
aDirectors circumstances change in a way that warrants reconsideration.
Following a review of Board composition, the Company has reassessed the independence of all its Non-Executive Directors.
It regards all as independent within the meaning of the term as dened in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board has a policy that it uses to determine the independence of its Directors.
This policy provides that the test of independence iswhether the Director is independent of management and any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of objective and unfettered or independent judgement by the Director or the Directors ability to act in the best interests of the shareholders.
Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 75 Composition Independence Non-Executive Directors 5 Independent 5 1 1 Executive Directors 3 Non-independent 3 Chairman 1 Chairman 1 3 3 5 5 Where a Director is considered by the Board to be independent, but In addition, any commercial dealings with St. John Advisors Ltd is affected by circumstances that may give rise to a perception that and STJAdvisors LLP have been approved by the independent the Director is not independent, the Board has undertaken to explain Non-Executive Directors, as they will be should they continue the reasons why it has reached its conclusion.
The Board considers in the future.
John and the Executive Directors absent relationships with management, major shareholders, associated themselves fully fromthese deliberations.
companies and other parties with whom the Group transacts Transactions during the year that amounted to related party business against predetermined materiality thresholds, all of which transactions under the International Financial Reporting Standards are set out in the policy.
IFRS are outlined in note 5.11 to the financial statements.
Tested against this policy, the Board considers that each of the TheCompany does not consider the level of fees paid to St. John Non-Executive Directors has retained independence of character and Advisors Ltd and STJ Advisors LLP to be material to either business.
judgement andhas not formed associations with management or All transactions with Directors, including Mr St. John, qualify under others that might compromise their ability to exercise independent the exemption for smaller related party transactions in respect of judgement oract in the best interests of the Company.
The theRelated Party Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Chairman is not eligible to be independent under the Code, and is Board composition therefore excludedfrom consideration.
The Board considers that there is an appropriate balance between The Board gave particular consideration to the independence of Executive and Non-Executive Directors for governing the business MrPeter Bingham and Mr John St. John.
This is because, historically, effectively and promoting shareholder interests.
It also considers that Non-Executive Directors were eligible for share option awards prior both Executive and Non-Executive Directors have the necessary skills, to the Companys admission to the Ofcial List of the United knowledge and experience to enable them to govern the business Kingdom Listing Authority in December 2009.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors met twice during MrSt.
John are the only independent Non-Executive Directors who the financial year without the Executive Directors being present.
The Share Option Scheme Rules were amended in November 2009 to prohibit the award of share options A summary of the skills and experience of the Board is shown on the to Non-Executive Directors.
Since Afrens admission to the Ofcial diagram on page 69.
List, no share options have been granted to any Non-Executive Succession: Board and Committee membership Director.
We take the view that this does not impact the independence of the Non-Executive Directors.
For more information Since the beginning of 2012, the following changes have taken place see the Directors remuneration report.
to the composition of the Board: Some of the Directors hold, or previously held, positions in Mr Patrick Obath joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director companies with which we have commercial relationships.
The Board inFebruary 2012 has assessed all of the relationships between the Company and Mr John St. John stepped down from the Audit and Risk and the companies in which the Directors hold or held positions.
It has Remuneration Committees in June 2012 concluded that, in all cases, the relationships do not interfere with the Directors exercise of objective, unfettered or independent Mr Toby Hayward joined the Remuneration Committee and was judgement or their ability to act in the best interests of our business.
appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in June 2012 In the case of Mr St. John, the Board has considered the fact that he Mr Patrick Obath joined the Audit and Risk Committee in June is a shareholder in St. John Advisors Ltd and a partner in STJ Advisors 2012 and the Remuneration Committee from 2013.
LLP, two companies in the financial advisory sector with which Afren At present, no Director has held tenure for longer than nine years has had commercial dealings.
It is Mr St. Johns breadth of expertise, andtherefore length of tenure is not considered to affect the experience, knowledge and connections gained while providing independence of the Board.
However, the Board is mindful of the capital markets advice to companies that brings significant value to need to ensure appropriate succession planning is in place and of the Board.
Prior to Mr St. Johns appointment, the Board assessed thepotential impairment to independence that can occur when the relationships between Afren and St. John Advisors Ltd and STJ aNon-Executive Director has held tenure for a significant length Advisors LLP.
It remains satisfied that Mr St. John is able to apply oftime, and this will be part of the Boards agenda for 2013. objective, unfettered and independent judgement and act in the best interests of the Company, notwithstanding his role with St. John Advisors Ltd and STJ Advisors LLP.
Afren plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Corporate governance statement Continued Meetings of the Board The Board reviewed succession planning in consultation with the Nomination Committee.
It considered in detail the skills which will The Directors have collective responsibility for the conduct of the be desirable in relation to future Non-Executive appointments, and Groups business and are expected, wherever possible, to attend it kept under review the steps being undertaken to identify further allBoard meetings, relevant Committee meetings and the Annual Non-Executive appointments.
The Board considered the issue of General Meeting AGM.
A table detailing the Directors attendance Board diversity, the recommendations made by Lord Davies in his at each of the Companys scheduled Board and Committee report entitled Women on Boards and the FRCs consultation on meetings during 2012 is included below.
proposed consequential changes to the UK Corporate Governance Board meeting attendance in 2012 Code.
Itapproved the Chairmans Statement on Board Diversity prepared in accordance with Lord Daviess recommendations.
During the year the Board agreed to increase the number of scheduled Board meetings from five to six.
In addition to the five The Board considers that, during 2012, an appropriate mix of its scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a quorate basis on time was allocated between strategic and operational matters 12 occasions to address specic matters.
The Board also held an and governance-related issues, including remuneration strategy.
off-site meeting, which considered the Groups strategy.
Board diversity Key activities of the Board in 2012 The Board recognises the benets of diversity in its widest sense, Performance both at Board level and throughout all levels in the organisation.
A summary of the Boards key activities during 2012 is shown below.
Diversity takes many forms: gender is one aspect, but other As well as the consideration of performance and strategic matters, important attributes to consider will include, for example, nationality the Board received detailed briengs on specic aspects of and experience.
compliance and corporate governance which affect the Company During its search for additional Non-Executive Directors in 2012, and the Group, the Board and their respective obligations.
culminating in the appointment of Patrick Obath, the Company The Board received a brieng on the Groups anti-corruption policies made clear to its external search consultancies that male-only and procedures and the recommended enhancements following an shortlists of candidates would not be accepted.
internal review to ensure continued alignment with best practice and The Company hopes to increase the level of representation of the UK Bribery Act and its associated guidance, and will look to females when refreshing and renewing Board membership over the approve a revised version of the Afren Code of Business Conduct to coming years.
However, this aspiration is subject to the imperative take effect in 2013. toensure that appointments are made on merit and with regard toan appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge required on the Board.
The Board will continue to take into account diversity, in all its forms, when making appointments.
Board and Committee meeting attendance in 2012 Number of Board Audit and Nomination Remuneration meetingsattended Risk Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors: Dr Osman Shahenshah 5 5 Mr Shahid Ullah 5 5 Mr Darra Comyn 5 5 Non-Executive Directors: Egbert Imomoh 5 5 3 3 Toby Hayward 5 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 Peter Bingham 5 5 3 3 3 3 John St. John 5 5 1 1 Ennio Sganzerla 5 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 Patrick Obath 5 5 2 2 Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 77 The Board is pleased that, below Board level, there is gender In deciding whether to authorise a conict or potential conict, diversity amongst the Companys senior management positions, and theDirectors must have regard to their general duties under in particular that Shirin Johri, the Groups General Counsel, and Jane theCompanies Act 2006.
The procedure operates to ensure the Barker, Group Head of Human Resources, are regular attendees of disclosure of conicts, and for the consideration and, if appropriate, Board meetings in an advisory capacity.
their authorisation by non-conicted Directors.
The Nomination Committee supports the Board in this process, both by reviewing As a London-listed, Africa and Middle East-focused company, it is requests from Directors for authorisations of situations of actual important that the Board reects the geographical diversity of the orpotential conict and making recommendations to the Board.
The Board consists of nationals from the United Kingdom, Itcan also review any situations of actual or potential conict that Africa and beyond and is satisfied that this representation provides the Board has previously authorised, and make recommendations astrong mix of views and experience to support its decision-making asto whether the authorisation remains appropriate.
Information and professional development Conicts of interest All Directors receive a personalised induction on joining the Board The Board has formal procedures for managing compliance with which is tailored to their experience, background and particular the conicts of interest provisions of the Companies Act 2006. areasof focus, and is designed to develop their knowledge and The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to authorise understanding of the Group.
Non-Executive Directors also receive situational conicts.
The Company established procedures for the afull programme of briengs on all areas of the Companys business disclosure and review of any conicts of interest, actual or potential, from the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary andother which the Directors may have and for the authorisation of such senior executives, and they may request such further information conict matters by the Board.
The Chairman agrees the personalised Directors are required to give advance notice of any conict issues to induction plan for each new Director and ensures that it is the Company Secretary, and these are considered at the next Board appropriately tailored.
In the last year the Board received training meeting.
The Board conducts an annual review of all previously focusing on recent corporate governance developments.
The Board authorised situational conicts, considering each one afresh.
held one of the scheduled meetings in the Houston ofce, to Directors are excluded from the quorum and the vote in respect facilitate the Directors understanding of the Groups international ofany matters in which they have an interest.
The Board may review operations.
All Directors receive briengs designed to update their the authorisation of a conict matter, and the terms of authorisation, skills and knowledge on a regular basis, for example in relation to at any time.
the business and on legal and regulatory requirements.
Board activities 2012 Board experience Tenure of Non-Executive Directors 6 2 1 12 6 4 2 41 2 4 4 41 % Strategic and operational matters 41 Oil and gas industry 6 0-3 years 1 Governance related issues 41 Engineering 4 4-5 years 2 Board oversight 12 Finance 4 6-10 years 2 Other matters 6 Capital markets 4 Accountancy 2 Afren plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Corporate governance statement Continued Following his appointment to the Board as a Non-Executive Director, Key conclusions of the 2012 evaluation Patrick Obath attended induction briengs covering the Groups The Board has made considerable progress since the last review and strategy, its organisational structure and its business functions overall was considered to be effective.
The review suggested further and activities, including its statutory reporting cycle and nancing improvement in the development of strategy, Board composition principles, operational activities, information technology strategy inrelation to diversity, succession planning, how operations are and legal and regulatory issues.
He also attended sessions addressing monitored and stakeholder management.
corporate governance, and Premium Listing regime compliance.
The externally facilitated review also reported that the Boards The full Board received briengs on a number of legal and regulatory Committees had improved their effectiveness.
developments, including the outcome of Lord Daviess review of gender equality on the boards of UK listed companies, anupdate Shareholder engagement on the UK Corporate Governance, an update on the Premium Listing The Board maintains a dialogue with investors directed towards regime delivered by an external presenter and developments in ensuring a mutual understanding of objectives.
Its primary contact relation to the Bribery Act 2010. isthrough the Executive Directors, but the Chairman and the Chief Executive also contact major shareholders periodically and in Evaluation of Board performance advance of the Annual General Meeting AGM each year in order The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous review of its tounderstand their views on the Company and to ensure that their performance and that of its committees each financial year.
In the views are communicated to the Board as a whole.
In addition, the winter of 2012, Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP conducted a Board Senior Independent Director and the other Non-Executive Directors review which took the form of a facilitated self-evaluation by the are available to meet with major shareholders inorder to understand Board.
The review included the completion of condential, their views and any concerns which they may have.
unattributable questionnaires, with each Board member, the Head At least twice a year, the Acquisitions and Investor Relations Director of HR and Company Secretary, which covered corporate governance, presents a report to the Board on investor relations generally, identifying Board effectiveness, strategy development, risk management and the key issues raised by institutional shareholders.
In addition, the Board Board and committee organisation, composition, operation and receives a report at each of its meetings on any changes to the holdings dynamics.
Each Director assessed themself, and all the other of the Companys main institutional shareholders.
Specic issues raised Directors against a number of personal effectiveness criteria, by individual institutions are also reported to the Board, as appropriate.
including awareness of the Group strategy, ability to think strategically and challenge constructively, level of commitment and Communications with shareholders regarding business strategy and preparedness, communication and listening skills, and contribution financial performance are co-ordinated by a dedicated Investor to decision-making.
The Chairman was also assessed on his ability Relations department that reports to the Acquisitions and Investor to create the conditions for overall Board effectiveness and for Relations Director.
Communications regarding the general setting the tone at the top.
administration ofshareholdings are co-ordinated by the Deputy Company Secretary, reporting to the Group General Counsel and The facilitators collated and analysed the results from each element Company Secretary.
of the evaluation and prepared separate reports, summarising key points and including non-attributable comments given in individual The Group conducts a dedicated investor relations programme responses.
The Board and Director Reports were initially discussed withinstitutional investors, analysts and the media which includes with the Chairman.
presentations and roadshows, as well as a regular series of one-toone and group meetings and a bi-annual Investor event involving The Board report was then presented by Armstrong Bonham Carter detailed presentations on the Companys strategy and performance.
Each Director received a copy of the report Investor presentations are published on www.
com and results on his or her own effectiveness and those reports on individual presentations are available by webcast during the year.
Additionally, performances were discussed by the Chairman with each Director this Annual Report and our Half Year Results Announcement, which asappropriate.
The Chairmans performance was discussed initially are sent to all registered shareholders, contain extensive information with the Senior Independent Director before he provided feedback about the Groups activities.
The Board welcomes enquiries from individual shareholders, both on matters relating to their shareholdings and the business of the Group.
Italso encourages shareholders to attend the AGM to discuss the Groups progress, make their views known and to raise any matters ofconcern directly.
The Company reports formally to shareholders twiceayear with its half-year and full-year results.
Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 79 Annual General Meeting Market disclosure We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of Company Secretaries disclosure.
These ensure that all investors and potential investors Ms Shirin Johri is the Group Company Secretary and has been called have the same timely access to relevant information, to assist them to the New York Bar.
Ms Johri is supported by Mr Elekwachi Ukwu, in making informed decisions.
We publish copies of announcements who is the Joint Company Secretary.
An England & Wales solicitor, to the market, investor presentations, the Annual Report and other Mr Ukwu has also been called to the Nigerian Bar.
The Company relevant information on our website.
Secretaries are responsible for developing and maintaining the information systems and processes that enable the Board to full its Board Committees role.
They are also responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board The Board has established four principal Board Committees, to which procedures are complied with and for advising on governance it has delegated certain of its responsibilities.
They are the Audit and matters.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretaries, Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, each of which has whom the Board has the power to appoint and remove.
dened terms of reference that are summarised below and available in full on the Company website.
The Board is kept fully informed of the Insurance cover work of these Committees.
A summary of the operations of these The Company maintains Directors and Ofcers liability insurance Committees is also set out below.
cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
Each Committee and Director has the authority to seek independent Election and re-election professional advice where necessary, at Afrens expense, to discharge The Board is committed to transparency in determining Board their respective duties.
In addition, each Director and Committee has membership.
All new Directors are required by the Companys access to the advice of the Company Secretaries, MsShirin Johri and Articles of Association to be elected by shareholders at the first Mr Elekwachi Ukwu.
Subsequently, Directors are subject tore-election by shareholders every three years.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have complied with the Corporate Governance Code recommendation to submit themselves for re-election every year if they wish to continue servingand are considered by the Board to be eligible.
The Board has proposed a special resolution, toincorporate this recommendation into the Companys Articles ofAssociation.
The New Articles incorporate amendments to the current Articles of Association theCurrent Articles to reect the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code including the recommendation for Directors to submit themselves for re-election every year.
An explanation of the main changes between the New Articles and the Current Articles is set out in the Appendix of the Notice of the AGM.
Share Dealing Code The Company has a Share Dealing Code which covers dealings by Directors, Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities PDMR, and relevant employees.
The Code complies with the provisions set out in the Model Code contained in Annex 1 to Listing Rule 9 of the UK Listing Authority Rules.
It restricts dealings in shares and other relevant securities by PDMRs and employees during designated prohibited periods and at any time when they are in possession ofunpublished, price-sensitive information.
