Afren plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Afrens Board ofDirectors Board of Directors Name and Title Mr Egbert Imomoh Dr Osman Shahenshah Mr Shahid Ullah Mr Darra Comyn Mr Peter Bingham Non-Executive Chief Executive Chief Operating Group Finance Non-Executive Chairman officer Director Director Mr Imomoh, a founder Dr Shahenshah is a founder Mr Ullah brings extensive Mr Comyn was previously Mr Bingham is a Biography ofAfren, was previously ofAfren and has over 20 technical and commercial the Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director of Managing Director and years experience in oil knowledge of the African for ITEGroup plc and Afren appointed in 2005.
Executive Chairman of andgas finance.
His petroleum industry to Expomedia Group plc Mr Bingham began his Afren Energy Resources international career began Afren.
MrUllah holds a bothinternational groups career at Barclays Bank Limited.
He successfully with Credit Suisse First degree in Petroleum focused on emerging group.
He subsequently ledthe growth ofAfrens Boston and has included Engineering from markets : and in the oil held a succession of Nigerian asset base, seniorpositions in the oil theUniversity of Texas industry with Chevron Oil Directorships, first in established anumber and gas finance groups of andreceived executive UK and Dragon Oil where London at branch level, of successful indigenous the International Finance development training at he was GroupFinancial then in Barclays merchant partnerships and achieved Corporation the private Oxford University andthe Controller and Company banking division and BZW the First Oil milestone at sector arm of the World London Business School.
MrComyn is a now known as Barclays the Okoro Setu project.
Bank, and the investment Heis a member of the Chartered Accountant with Capital.
There he set up The Society of Petroleum banking divisions of Engineering Advisory Board a degree inEconomics from the credit risk management Engineers has named Dresdner Kleinwort atthe University of Texas.
Trinity College, University team, before becoming MrImomoh as its 2013 Wasserstein and ofDublin.
Head ofBanking at BZW President, and he has Mediocredito Centrale.
and serving as a member of served on itsboard Heholds a PhD from the the central Barclays Group as Regional Director University of Pennsylvania, Credit Committee.
a Masters Degree from Columbia University and aBachelors Degree from Brown University.
2005 2004 2008 2010 2005 Year Appointed Meetings Attended 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 Mr Imomoh brings a Dr Shahenshah has been Through the senior Mr Comyn has extensive With over 40 years Experience wealth of knowledge of actively involved in the management positions held financial, accounting and experience, Mr Bingham the oil and gas industry African oil and gas industry by Mr Ullah prior to joining capital markets experience brings considerable inNigeria and Africa, for more than 15 years, Afren, at Western Atlas in both the emerging knowledge in international acquired through many working with companies andBaker Hughes where markets and the oil and financial markets.
years of industry including Shell, Chevron, he was responsible for gasindustry.
experience including Total, Eni, and the Nigerian managing significant serving as Deputy National Petroleum petroleum interests and Managing Director of Shell Corporation.
assets, he has considerable Petroleum Development experience in the oil and Dr Shahenshah also brings Company Nigeria prior gas industry.
to Afren his extensive toestablishing Afrens experience of the Nigerian subsidiary.
international capital markets and of oil and gas finance.
Nomination Committee Audit and Risk Committee Committee Remuneration Committee Membership Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Yes Independent Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 71 Associate Directors Mr John St. John Mr Ennio Sganzerla Mr Toby Hayward Mr Patrick Obath Iain Wright Galib Virani Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Associate Director Associate Director Director Director Director Director Mr St. John was appointed Mr Sganzerla is a senior oil A qualied chartered Mr Obath, an East African Mr Wright has over Mr Virani joined Afren in to the Board of Afren in industrypractitioner with a accountant, Mr Hayward national, was appointed 25years of industry 2006 following a career November 2006.
He has wealth of African upstream has helda number of senior tothe Board in 2012.
Mr experience, having held in the City of London in acted as an adviser on over experience.
He was equitycapital market Obath currently also serves senior positions at Randall corporate finance and US$100 billion of equity previously Senior Vice positions inLondon.
He as Chairman of PZ Cussons & Dewey, Baker Hughes, mergers and acquisitions and equity-linked issuance President E&P at Eni, was Head of Oil and Gas EA Limited and is a Qatar Petroleum, Conoco predominantly covering in all major markets having joined the group in Equity Capital Markets Non-Executive Director at UK and Anadrill the energy sector.
From 1997, he was atCanaccord Adams, Standard Chartered Bank Schlumberger prior to Heis a Fellow of the formerly Global Head of responsible for Enis largest before joining Jefferies Kenya Limited and Kenya joining Afren in 2008.
Securities Institute, and Equity Capital Markets at business unit encompassing International Limited as Power and Lighting Mr Wright is a Certied has a Master of Finance Dresdner Kleinwort, the North Sea, America, Managing Director and Company Limited.
He is Petroleum Geologist with &Investment with Commerzbank and Lehman Australasia and Russia, Head of Corporate Broking, Chairman of the Kenya the AAPG, and a fellow Distinction and a Master Brothers and European with production in excess where hewas responsible Private Sector Alliance and ofthe Geological Society, of Philosophy in Emerging Head ofEquity Capital of 500,000 boepd.
for all international equity has received a number of SPE, and PESGB.
Markets at Citigroup, and equity linked East African Honorary formerly Salomon Brothers.
transactions together with recognitions, including the He was also until recently corporate broking and Order of the Grand Warrior the Chairman of Equity Nomad responsibilities.
OGW by H. E. the President Capital Markets at of the Republic of Kenya, NomuraInternational plc.
the National Peace Award, MrSt.
John is a founding Kenya, and the Order of the Partner of STJ Advisers.
Moran of the Burning Spear MBS by H. E. the President of the Republic of Kenya.
2007 2009 2009 2012 2010 2010 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 Mr St. Johns significant Over the course of his Mr Hayward has extensive With over 36 years of Mr Wright brings extensive Mr Virani contributes a experience provides wide-ranging career at Eni, expertise in the equity industry experience, geosciences experience to wealth of corporate considerable insight into the MrSganzerla has acquired capital markets, as well as including 20 years in Afren, having served in finance experience to international capital and significant experience in bringing financial and various positions at Shell, both development and Afren, and has played a financial markets.
establishing and developing accountancy experience MrObath has a wealth of exploration geology roles.
key role in the inorganic oil and gas assets in West tothe Board.
experience as a senior oil growth of the Groups Africa including Nigeria, and gas industry asset portfolio.
Mr Virani Gabon and Congo and practitioner.
is an East African national inleading merger and and oversees the regional acquisitions activities in aspects of Afrens theoil and gas industry, activities in East Africa.
including the acquisition ofLasmo plc andBritish Borneo.
Audit and Risk Committee Audit and Risk Committee Audit and Risk Committee Audit and Risk Committee Not applicable Not applicable Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Yes Yes Yes Yes Not applicable Not applicable Stepped down Joined 6 June 2012 Joined 6 June 2012 6 June2012 Appointment effective from 2013 onwards
