Afren plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Corporate governance statement Continued Introduction Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee meets at least once a year and is Egbert Imomoh, responsible for reviewing and recommending to the Board suitable Chairman of Nomination Committee candidates for appointment as Directors of the Company.
It regularly reviews the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required on the Board.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Board Directors, based on merit and against objective criteria.
The Nomination Committee met three times during the year to deal with the recruitment of additional Non-Executive Directors and consider Effectiveness of the Nomination Committee the composition of the Board.
The searches for Non-Executive Directors involved the use of independent recruitment consultants.
Who is on the Nomination Committee?
The Nomination Committee currently comprises Mr Egbert Imomoh The Committees activities during 2012 Chairman, Mr Ennio Sganzerla and Mr Toby Hayward.
Priority matter Matters discussed Appointment of new Conducted a thorough and transparent Member No.
of meetings Non-Executive Director appointment process for the recommendation Mr Egbert Imomoh Chairman 3 3 of a new Non-Executive Director to ensure the Board is appropriately supported and Mr Ennio Sganzerla 3 3 strengthened for the future Mr Toby Hayward 3 3 Existing Board structure Conducted a thorough review and debated the skills and diversity of the existing Boardmembership to ensure that the Board has the appropriate balance of skills and experience to support the future development of the business Suitability of future Reviewed the Board and Committee Boardstructure composition following the appointment ofa new Non-Executive Director continues to grow and expand.
Notwithstanding that our two Dear Shareholder most recent appointments to the Board have been male, we This year proved to be another busy one for the Nomination remain committed to our aspiration that a significant proportion Committee.
Mr Patrick Obath joined the Board in February 2012 of our Board should be female by 2015.
In the case of Mr Patrick and Mr Toby Hayward took over the role of Chairman of the Obaths appointment as Non-Executive Director in 2012, we Remuneration Committee after the AGM in June 2012.
Following requested our search consultants to ensure that female candidates the decision by the Board to appoint a further Non-Executive were included on our long and short lists for the role but Director, the Committee initiated an extensive selection process ultimately we concluded that Patrick was the best candidate.
We toidentify suitable candidates to join the Board.
are committed to appoint new Directors on merit whilst seeking With the assistance of specialist recruitment consultants, Odgers to strengthen the diversity of the Board.
Berndtson, a planned recruitment exercise was undertaken, We will continue to press our search consultants to include more involving a mapping phase against agreed key criteria for the female candidates in any future external searches.
A long list of candidates was initially identied from which six will continue to monitor diversity for the Group asawhole.
Each of the Committee members met with the final candidates and following this rigorous process, Patrick Obaths appointment as Non-Executive Director was recommended to the Board by the Committee.
We regularly review the composition and balance of the Board toensure that we have the right structure, skills, knowledge and Egbert Imomoh experience in place to deliver our strategy in an organisation which Chairman
