Afren plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance The Directors submit their Annual Report on the affairs of the Group together with the financial statements and audit report of Afren plc Directors for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The Corporate governance statement on pages 68 to 84 forms part of this Directors report.
Having taken all the matters considered by the Board and brought tothe attention of the Board during the year into account, we are report satisfied that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and reasonable.
Principal activities On the basis of the above, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources The Groups principal activities are oil and gas exploration, to continue in operational existence forthe foreseeable future.
They development and production in Africa and the Kurdistan region of therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting Iraq.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting inpreparing the annual financial statements.
the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in notes 4.7 and 6.2 to the consolidated financial statements.
Results and dividends Business review The Groups profit for the year was US$203.4 million 2011: US$125.4 million.
The Directors have not recommended the The Company is required by the Companies Act to include a business payment of a dividend 2011: US$nil.
The information that fulls the reviews requirements is set out within the Chairmans statement and Chief The Directors and their interests Executives review, Operations review and the Financial review, The Directors who served during the year and subsequently, together whichare incorporated into this report by reference.
These sections also with their and their families beneficial interests in shares in the include details of expected future developments in the Groups business Company, were as shown below.
Details of Directors share options and details of the Key Performance Indicators used by management.
are provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 85 to 96.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries is given in note 3.3 to the financial statements.
Supplier payment policy The Companys policy, which is also applied by the Group, is to settle Details of significant events affecting the Company and the Group terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each since the balance sheet date are contained in note 6.15 to the transaction, ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of financial statements.
the payment, and abide by the terms of the payment.
Trade creditors Going concern ofthe Group at 31 December 2012 were equivalent to30 days purchases 2011: 30 days, based on the actual year end balance.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out Charitable and political donations in the Operations review.
The financial position of the Group at the During the year, the Group made charitable donations ofUS$6.6 year end, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities million, the majority of which related to Africanand  in the Financial review onpages 32to37.
Inaddition, focused charities and institutions 2011: US$1.7 million.
section 3 of the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk No political donations were made in either 2012 or 2011. management objectives and details of its financial instruments and hedging activities.
Note 5.4 describes its exposures to credit risk and Capital structure liquidity risk.
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the Afrens production outlook for 2013 and beyond, together with its year, are shown innote 3.5.
The Company has one class of ordinary funding facilities, provides confidence that the Group will continue shares, which carries no right to xed income.
Each share carries the togenerate sufficient working capital for the foreseeable future to right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
The ordinary enable it to fund its ongoing exploration and development activities.
shares reect 100% of the total issued nominal value of all sharecapital.
Directors and their interests Committees Ordinary shares of 0.01 each Name Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration At 22 March 2013 At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Egbert Imomoh, Chairman 3,972,246 3,972,246 3,972,246 Osman Shahenshah, Chief Executive 4,895,856 4,895,856 4,181,515 Shahid Ullah, Chief Operating officer 4,360,106 4,360,106 3,268,961 Darra Comyn, Group Finance Director Peter Bingham, Non-Executive Director Toby Hayward, Senior Non-Executive Director 205,000 205,000 205,000 Ennio Sganzerla, Non-Executive Director 24,000 24,000 24,000 John St. John, Non-Executive Director 177,823 177,823 175,922 Patrick Obath, Non-Executive Director Or resignation, if earlier.
Or on appointment, if later.
Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 73 There are no specic restrictions on the size of a holding nor on Acquisition of the Companys own shares thetransfer of shares, which are both governed by the general At the end of the year the Directors had authority, under the provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
shareholders resolutions of 6 June 2012, to purchase through the The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders market 97,832,886 of the Companys ordinary shares at prices, per ofthe Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the share, ranging between one penny and the higher of i the amount transfer ofsecurities or on voting rights.
equal to 105% of the average of the closing middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 5.9.
Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on No person has any special rights of control over the Companys which the ordinary share is purchased and ii the amount stipulated by share capital, and all issued shares are fully paid.
Details of significant article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulations 2003 in each shareholdings are set out below.
This authority expires on 30 June 2013.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, Auditors theCompany is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Corporate Governance Code, theCompanies Act and related legislation.
Annual Report confirms that: The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit shareholders.
The powers of Directors are described in the Main information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Board Terms of Reference, copies of which areavailable on request, the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken and the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 68 to 84. asa Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit In respect of the Groups assets in Ghana, Block 10A in Kenya, the information and to establish thatthe Companys auditors are Seychelles and Ethiopia, our partners may have a right of first refusal to aware of that information.
acquire the Companys interest should a competitor directly or indirectly This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance take control of the Company.
In relation to the Ebok asset, our partner with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Oriental would have asimilar right of first refusal to acquire our interest upon a direct or indirect change of control.
In addition, under the Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofce as terms on which the Senior Secured Notes of US$500 million and auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the US$300 million were issued, upon a change of control, each holder forthcoming AnnualGeneralMeeting.
ofthe notes has the right to require Afren to repurchase all or any The Company intends to follow the provisions of the 2012 UK partof its holding.
Corporate Governance Code and put the external audit contract out There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate to tender at least every ten years.
The timing of the next tender will upon a change of control of the Company such as commercial be aligned with the cycle for rotating the audit engagement partner.
contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these is considered to be significant in Annual General Meeting terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company, resolutions will be Furthermore, there are no agreements between the Company and proposed to receive these accounts and the Directors and auditors itsDirectors or employees that provide for compensation for loss reports and to re-elect allDirectors at the Annual General Meeting, ofofce or employment thatoccurs because of a takeover bid.
in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Substantial shareholdings Resolutions will also be proposed to: As of 22 March 2013 being the latest practicable date prior to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditors publication of the Annual Report, interests notied to the Company authorise the Directors to x Deloitte LLPs remuneration as auditors in accordance with Chapter 5 ofthe Disclosure and Transparency grant the Directors authority to allot ordinary shares Rules comprised: buy back the Companys ordinary shares Vidacos Nominees Standard Life 8.00% allow a general meeting to be held at not less than 14 days notice.
BlackRock, Inc. 5.01% For a more detailed explanation of these and other amendments, SKAGEN Global 5.01% please refer to the Notes on Resolutions set out in the Notice of Van Eck Associates Corporation 4.97% Annual General Meeting.
AllianceBerstein LP 4.94% Investec Asset Management Ltd 4.49% On behalf of the Board HSBC Client Holdings UK Limited 4.93% GLG Partners LP 3.60% Legal & General Group Plc 3.01% Deutsche Bank AG 3.01% Osman Shahenshah Percentages are based on the issued share capital at the date of notication.
