Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 81 Introduction Audit and Risk Committee The role of the Audit and Risk Committee is to oversee the Peter Bingham, accounting, financial reporting, internal control and risk management Chairman of Audit and Risk Committee processes of the Company and the robustness and quality of the audit process of the financial statements of the Company and Group.
It also ensures that the Board regularly assesses business risks, riskmanagement and risk mitigation strategies.
In doing so, the Committee places reliance on reports and input from executive andsenior management, the external auditors and the outputs of internal audit reviews.
The Chairman of the Company, the Finance Effectiveness of the Audit and Risk Committee Director and other members of senior management attend meetings of the Committee by invitation.
The Companys external auditors, Who is on the Audit and Risk Committee?
Deloitte LLP Deloitte, also attend meetings in part, as well as The members of the Audit and Risk Committee are listed below.
meeting privately with the Committee at least once a year to discuss TheBoard has determined that Mr Toby Hayward, a chartered any matters which the auditors may wish to raise without Executive accountant, has recent and relevant financial experience through Directors being present.
The other Committee members also The Committee met three times during 2012 and its activities, have a range of financial, commercial and other relevant experience.
aswell as additional attendees, are summarised below.
The Board iskept updated and informed of the Audit and Risk Committees Member No.
of meetings activities and any issues arising through verbal reports given at every Mr Peter Bingham Chairman 3 3 Board meeting immediately following a Committee meeting, and Mr Toby Hayward 3 3 through the circulation of the Committees minutes.
Mr Ennio Sganzerla 3 3 Mr Patrick Obath 2 2 Members who left during the year Mr John St. John 1 1 Dear Shareholder I am pleased to announce that, during 2012, the Committee approved the appointment of a Senior Internal Audit Manager As Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, I see the whowill report independently to the Committee on matters ofrisk Committees key role is in providing support and reassurance management and internal control effectiveness.
Thisappointment totheBoard on the areas of risk which affect the Company and reects the continuing development of the Companys approach the tolerance and appetite of the Board and management to tomanaging and monitoring risk as the business develops and theseriskareas.
theenvironments in which we operate continue to expand This reassurance is provided through reference to Afrens financial andchange.
reporting procedures and application of accounting policies and judgements, its internal control and risk management frameworks and its demonstration of commitment to, and application of, good corporate governance.
The Committee is supported in this role by its interaction with Peter Bingham seniormanagement and the Companys external auditors, and the Chairman Committees meetings are always attended by the Finance Director, the lead partner of our external auditors, andbyindividual managers who are responsible for specic topics, such as risk management, financial control, and internal compliance procedures.
Afren plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Corporate governance statement Continued The Committees activities during 2012 Date of meeting Other attendees Matters discussed 22 March Company Chairman Report from Deloitte on audit and accounting judgements relating to the 2011 Annual Report.
2012 Itemsofparticular focus included: Finance Director Assumptions used in assessing the carrying values of intangible assets and oil and gas assets Senior finance management The valuation methodology applied to options held in an associate company and the related Business Process Director accounting gains recorded in the year Group General Counsel Assumptions relating to future tax charges and related liabilities Deloitte Lead Audit Partner The assumptions made in providing for future decommissioning liabilities and Senior Manager The suitability of the going concern assumption used as a basis of preparation for the accounts Acquisition accounting by Afren plc for Barda Rash and Ain Sifni, and by FHN for OML 26 The application of hedge accounting for oil price hedges The accounting policy and underlying assumptions applied in calculating the charge for depletion, depreciation and amortisation DD&A The level of audit and non-audit fees paid to the external auditor during 2011 and the outlook for 2012 Afrens risk management and risk assessment procedures, and how these mapped to the Groups internal procedures and mitigating action plans The financial control review plan for 2012, with a focus on controls over procurement and payments, and monitoring external contractor compliance A review of the internal audit process, with a recommendation to recruit an internal auditor The Groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC procedures and findings from recently introduced policies.
No significant matters of non-compliance were noted Matters reported to the Committee via the Groups whistle-blowing process 16 August Finance Director Report from Deloitte on audit and accounting judgements underlying the half-year results 2012 toJune2012.
These included: Senior finance management The approach undertaken by Deloitte in carrying out their review of the financial information, Deloitte Lead Audit Partner including materiality judgements and Director Assumptions underlying the valuation of oil and gas and intangible assets, and liabilities for future tax and royalty payments and for future decommissioning liabilities The accounting treatment applied to arrangements with partners on the Groups licences The assumptions and judgements made relating to liquidity and going concern Consistency of accounting policies and estimates underlying the DD&A charge incurred in the half year Updates on ongoing control and risk assessment processes, with a particular focus on exploration failure risk and how to control and mitigate this Ongoing roll-out and compliance with ABC procedures Review of the ongoing suitability of the Committees Terms of Reference 4 December Finance Director Report from Deloitte on their plan for the audit of the 2012 Annual Report, including: 2012 Senior finance management Audit scope and materiality judgements Head of Risk Management Areas of judgement and risk requiring particular audit focus these are summarised in note 1.6 to and Assurance the Financial Statements Deloitte Lead Audit Partner Overview of key risks facing the Group and Company and the ongoing development of managements and Director action plans for mitigating these Approval of the candidate proposed by management to take on the Senior Internal Audit Manager role the candidate had been interviewed separately by the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman in advance of the meeting Changes to the UK corporate governance framework and a summary of the technical updates received by the members of the Committee throughout the year Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 83 The Senior Internal Audit Manager has direct access and Internal control and risk management responsibility to the Audit and Risk Committee, and his main The Board has applied principle C. 2 of the UK Corporate responsibilities include: Governance Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Carrying out internal audit and compliance monitoring work, Groupfaces.
The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board supported by independent specialist consultants as required, indischarging its review responsibilities.
addressing both the financial and overall risk management objectives of the Group The Directors conduct reviews of Afrens overall system of risk management and internal control through reports from management, Evaluating and developing the Groups overall control the external auditors and through the findings of internal audit environment and its processes for risk identication reviews, in accordance with the requirements of the revised Turnbull andmanagement Guidance on Internal Control, published by the FRC, and the Code.
These responsibilities were presented to and approved by the Audit These systems have been operating throughout 2012 and to the and Risk Committee at its meeting on 18 March 2013.
Once his date of this report.
initial scoping has been completed, the Senior Internal Audit The Group also maintains a Risk Register, which contains the Manager will present a programme of work for the Groups internal keyrisks faced by the Group, including their likelihood and impact, audit function which will be presented to and approved by the aswell as the controls and procedures implemented to mitigate Audit and Risk Committee later in 2013. these risks.
The content of the Register is determined through Financial management and reporting regular discussions with senior management and is reviewed bytheAudit and Risk Committee.
These key risks are summarised During the year the Committee reviewed, prior to publication, on pages 28 to31 of the Business review section of this thehalf-year and annual financial statements and other major AnnualReport.
statements affecting the Group that concerned price sensitive information.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for the ongoing review of its effectiveness.
Such a system In monitoring the financial reporting practices, the Audit and Risk isdesigned to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure Committee reviewed the accounting policies, areas of judgement, toachieve business objectives.
It can only provide reasonable and going concern assumption and compliance with accounting not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
standards, the Disclosure and Transparency rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
These matters were discussed with Internal audit procedures management and reviewed alongside analysis undertaken by the At its meeting on 4 December 2012, the Audit and Risk Committee Groups external auditors, with particular focus given to the key approved the establishment of a formal internal audit department assumptions underlying the accounting for the valuation of oil for the Group and the appointment of a Senior Internal Audit andgas assets, intangible exploration and evaluation assets, Manager to oversee this function.
This appointment reects the decommissioning provisions, and liabilities in respect of taxation increase in the size and complexity of the Group in terms of androyalties.
production and exploration activities, financial results, geographical spread and staff numbers.
The Senior Internal Audit Manager joined Afren on 25 February 2013.
The internal audit and compliance responsibilities previously undertaken by the Groups Director of Business Processes have been handed over to the Senior Internal Audit Manager.
Afren plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Corporate governance statement Continued External audit Control framework and activities Based on managements proposals, the Audit and Risk Committee The Board has established a management structure with dened lines has recommended to the Board that the current auditors, of responsibility and clear delegation of authority.
The various DeloitteLLP, be reappointed as external auditors.
In making the committees are key elements of the overall control structure.
These recommendation, it has taken into consideration the independence include the Executive Committee, which meets at least bi-monthly matters noted below and the past service of the auditors who and is responsible for all strategic and operational activities day-to-day.
wererst appointed in 2005 following a full tender process.
The Group has developed a formal structured business planning TheCommittee has also considered the likelihood of a withdrawal process, which operates on an annual cycle.
The Board approves of the auditors from the market and noted that there are no theconsolidated annual budget, and performance against budget contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditors.
ismonitored and reported to the Board.
The Audit and Risk Committee has a policy for assessing whether The Groups risk management process is described on pages 26 toemploy the external auditors to supply services other than audit to27.
TheAudit and Risk Committee and senior executives of the services, and closely monitors the level of audit and non-audit Company regularly review significant risks, their potential impact services the external auditors provide to the Group.
Non-audit onthe Groups financial position, and actions taken to manage services are normally limited to assignments that are closely related those risks during the year.
to the annual audit, or where the work is of a nature that a detailed understanding of the Group is necessary.
The external auditors are specically excluded from providing internal audit services, litigation support, remuneration advice and legal advice services.
The Committee assesses every other piece ofnon-audit work separately, and places it depending on which professional services rm it considers best suited.
In addition, any non-audit work with a total fee greater than 25% of the annual audit fee must be approved by the Chairman of the Audit and RiskCommittee prior to the appointment being made.
The Board is satisfied that this policy is conducive to the maintenance of auditor independence and objectivity.
During the year external auditors performed a significant amount of non-audit related work in relation to the issuance of Senior Secured Notes in March 2012, work that would ordinarily be performed by external auditors for companies involved in such projects.
The Audit and Risk Committee is satisfied that the carrying out of this work has not impaired the independence of the external auditors.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditors in respect ofaudit and non-audit work is included in note 5.2 to the nancialstatements.
