50 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Companys competition compliance regime which includes This Report explains the approach taken by the Company to compulsory training and testing for all relevant employees which was compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code published by adopted in 2008, a Supplier Corporate Responsibility policy adopted the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010.
The Code is available in 2010 and the Groups Business Conduct policy adopted in 2011: at www.
all of which set out the standards of ethical behaviour which the Company expects its suppliers and employees to exhibit.
Additional The Company believes good governance is achieved through a information about the Groups values and work undertaken around combination of clear values, appropriate policy and an environment them can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section at pages of transparency and accountability, all of which should apply to the 29 to 33 and in the Groups online Corporate Responsibility Report Companys dealings with all of its stakeholders.
The work which published at www.
commenced in 2007 with the adoption of a set of core values continues and has been further enhanced through the adoption of The Board considers that the Company has complied with the Code suitable policies and procedures, including, for example, the throughout the year.
Governance framework Dairy Crest Group plc Board Strategic direction Management Board St Hubert Dairies Board Foods Board Cross functional strategic support & planning Strategy & policy Leadership Team Finance IT Systems Supply Chain HR Innovation Marketing Sales Vision & Values Health & Safety Leadership Leadership Leadership Leadership Leadership Leadership Leadership Leadership Leadership Team Team Team Team Team Team Team Team Team The Board The Board leads and controls the Company in the delivery of Consistent with the Guidance on Audit Committees, all members of long-term success and the discharge of the Companys obligations the Committee are independent Non-executive Directors.
Andrew is to its shareholders and other stakeholders.
It is collectively deemed by the Board to be the Audit Committee financial expert responsible for the Groups strategy, values and governance and with recent and relevant financial experience and independent for ensuring that the resources required to meet the Groups objectives the purposes of the Code.
All of the Committee members have are available within a framework of prudent controls.
Certain matters extensive commercial experience see page 11.
Further information have been reserved to the Board whilst others have been delegated on the Companys application of the Code and on the Audit to its Committees.
The Boards principal responsibilities include: Committee and its work during the year is set out in its Report on t Approval of the Groups long-term objectives and business pages 53 to 55. strategy.
t Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets.
The Remuneration Committee t Approval of the Companys Interim and Preliminary Results Stephen Alexander chairs the Committee.
Andrew Carr-Locke and Announcements and Annual Report and Accounts.
Sue Farr are the other members of the Committee.
A detailed t Declaration of interim dividends and the recommendation of a final description of the Committees remit and work during 2011 12, dividend.
including further information on the Companys application of the t Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control principles of the Code, is contained in the Remuneration Report and risk management.
which was approved by the Board on pages 38 to 45. t Approval of the Companys governance framework, including key Group policies, for example Health and Safety and Business Nomination Committee Conduct.
The Committee is responsible for succession planning at Board t Approval of resolutions to be put to shareholders at the AGM.
level, overseeing the selection and appointment of Directors and making its recommendations to the Board.
It is also responsible, in Committees conjunction with the Chairman, for evaluating the commitments of There are five Committees of the Board: Audit: Remuneration: individual Directors and the balance of skills, knowledge and Nomination: Corporate Responsibility and Management Board.
The experience on the Board and ensures that the membership of the Code prescribes certain requirements for terms of reference for the Board and its principal committees are refreshed periodically.
Where Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Each of the appropriate, the Committee will prepare an outline of the role and Boards Committees terms of reference are published on the Groups capabilities required for particular appointments and use an external website and to the extent required, they comply with the Code.
search consultancy and or advertising in relation to Board appointments.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Andrew Carr-Locke.
The other During 2011 12, the Committees focus remained on succession members are Stephen Alexander and Richard Macdonald.
Andrew planning for the Board.
With the assistance of external consultants it is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
continued to search for additional candidates to join the Board to Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 51 enhance further the balance of skills and diversity amongst its the Company in the management of its approach to key areas, such members.
The Company has adopted a broad approach to diversity, as health and safety.
As appropriate, reports are provided by the interpreting it in its widest sense.
It aims to achieve the best possible various leadership teams to the Management Board, the SPLT and leadership for the Group by ensuring an appropriate balance of the Board skills, backgrounds, experience and knowledge amongst the Directors.
Following the Committees work in the prior year which Chairman and Chief Executive resulted in the appointment of Richard Macdonald and Stephen There is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles of Alexander, who brought with them valuable experience in FMCG Chairman who serves in a non-executive capacity and Chief and agricultural sectors, the Committees continued search Executive which is set out in writing and which has been approved conducted with the assistance of external consultants led to its by the Board.
The Chairman and Chief Executive work closely recommendation that Sue Farr be invited to join the Board.
The together to full their responsibilities.
As Chairman, Anthony Fry Committee felt that Sues communications experience would be of leads the Board and is accountable for ensuring the Boards particular value to the Board, there being no Director with a specic effectiveness in discharging its responsibilities, including background in communications: and that her marketing experience safeguarding shareholder and other stakeholder interests and would help to augment the breadth of marketing experience ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
In conjunction available to the Company in the expectation that Howard Mann with the Chief Executive he sets the agenda for Board meetings would, in line with the best practice requirements of the Code, be ensuring that adequate time is available for all agenda items, in coming to the end of his tenure.
The Committee continues to particular, strategic issues, and facilitates the effective contribution of maintain a watching brief for additional candidates who might further all Directors.
He promotes a culture of openness among the Board improve the balance of skills, backgrounds, experience, knowledge and ensures constructive relations between Executive and Nonand diversity amongst the Board.
He is supported by the Company Secretary in the discharge of his duties.
As Chief Executive, Mark Allen has Corporate Responsibility Committee overall responsibility for the effective implementation of the strategy The Committee oversees the Groups corporate responsibility approved by the Board, for the Groups business performance and programme and ensures that key social, ethical and environmental day-to-day management of the Groups operations, and for the risks are identied, assessed and prioritised.
Richard Macdonald effective management of the Groups people and assets.
During the year, a number of changes were made to the membership of the Committee, reecting a desire to Non-executive Directors ensure that its membership better reects executive responsibility for As members of a unitary board, the Non-executive Directors the various component parts of the Groups corporate responsibility scrutinise managements performance in meeting agreed goals and strategy.
Each of the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary & objectives.
The Board as a whole monitors the reporting of General Counsel and the Group HR Director are responsible for one performance.
The Chief Executives objectives, achievement of of the Groups values, reecting the core elements of Business in the which inuences his remuneration, are agreed with the Communitys corporate responsibility framework, which the Group Remuneration Committee following initial discussion with the has adopted, and for ensuring they are embedded within the Chairman.
Performance against those objectives is scrutinised by business.
Details of the Committees activities during 2011 12 are set the Remuneration Committee.
The Audit Committee monitors and out in the Corporate Responsibility Report at pages 29 to 33. scrutinises the integrity of financial information as well as the robustness and defensibility of financial controls and systems of risk Management Board management.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for The Chief Executive chairs the Management Board which comprises determining appropriate levels of remuneration for Executive the other Executive Directors and senior members of the Groups Directors.
The Nomination Committee has a prime role in selecting executive team.
During the year, the membership of the and appointing Executive Directors and in succession planning.
The Management Board was extended to ensure that other key parts of appointment of Directors to or the removal of Directors from the the Groups business are represented on it.
Details of the members Board is a matter reserved to the Board as a whole.
of the Management Board can be found at pages 10 to 12.
The Management Board is responsible, amongst other matters, for Howard Mann, who was considered independent for the purposes implementing the Groups strategic direction and monitoring the of the Code during the whole of his tenure, was the Senior performance of the business and its control procedures on a Independent Director during the 2011 12 financial year.
Howard stood down from the Board on 18 May 2012, Richard Macdonald succeeded him as Senior Independent Director.
Richard Frequency of meetings and membership is considered independent for the purposes of the Code and is Details of the frequency of Board and Committee meetings during available to shareholders as required.
the year together with Directors attendance are set out in the table at page 11.
Changes to the membership of the Board and its The Chairman periodically meets individually or collectively with the Committees are set out in the notes to the table on page 11.
Non-executive Directors in the absence of the Executive Directors.
The process for appraising the Chairmans performance is set out Other committees on page 52.
Were Directors to have unresolved concerns about the There are other committees within the Groups governance running of the Company or a proposed action, they would be framework which are not committees of the Board which are used recorded in the Board minutes.
The Non-executive Directors to support the work of the Board and the Management Board.
The recognise the principle that if on resignation from the Board a St Hubert, Dairies and Foods Boards have day-to-day operational Director has unresolved concerns, that Director should provide a and profit and loss accountability, and the Strategy and Policy written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board.
The Leadership Team SPLT and the other leadership teams below it, concept that Non-executive Directors are free to question any which are chaired by members of the SPLT, provide cross-functional executive decision of the Company is enshrined in the engagement strategic support, planning and guidance.
They focus on assisting letter of each Non-executive Director.
Governance 52 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued The Composition of the Board developments in the dairy sector generally.
The Directors keep Board balance and independence abreast with the Groups business through meetings and At the date of this Report, the Board has eight Directors three presentations by management below Board level and visits to Executive Directors, a Non-executive Chairman who was operational sites.
independent on appointment and four independent for the purposes of the Code Non-executive Directors.
Their biographies, Information and support responsibilities and Committee memberships are set out on pages Under the Chairmans stewardship, the Company Secretary advises 10 to 11.
No Non-executive Director or the Chairman has any the Board on all governance matters and ensures Board procedures business or other relationship with the Group which may inuence are followed and applicable rules and regulations complied with.
He their independence or judgement and the Board believes them to be ensures that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with independent of management.
information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable the Board to discharge its duties.
Following the recommendation contained in Lord Davies report, the Chairman has published a statement on Board diversity.
Dairy Crest All Directors individually, the Board and each of the Board believes in the benets which diversity, in its broadest sense, brings Committees, have access to the advice and services of the and manages an ongoing refreshment and succession planning Company Secretariat and the Secretary.
They all receive regular process for its Board which is intended to achieve an appropriate reports on corporate governance issues from the Company balance, amongst other things, of skills, backgrounds, experience Secretariat.
There are also procedures in place enabling Directors in and knowledge - all with the aim of providing the best possible the furtherance of their duties to seek independent professional leadership.
The Board believes that it has an appropriate balance of advice at the Companys expense.
Executive and Non-executive Directors with a suitable breadth of experience and backgrounds to provide effective leadership for the Evaluation Group.
The Company will maintain a highly proactive approach to With the help of an external facilitator, a review was conducted the management of the Board to ensure that all Board appointments during March and April this year, the Board by then having worked continue to reect diversity.
The full statement can be found on the together for almost a year after the majority of recent changes.
process adopted eschewed questionnaires in favour of facilitated discussion.
It was aimed at identifying areas for improvement and Appointments to the Board enhancement.
Recognising the importance of the Chairmans role in The Articles provide that the Directors or the members, by ordinary the effectiveness of the Board, the evaluation of the Chairmans resolution, may appoint a director either to ll a vacancy or as an performance was a key focus of the review alongside the evaluation additional director.
A director appointed by the Directors shall retire of other individual Directors.
at the next AGM following appointment and shall be eligible for election by the members.
The Chairman and Company Secretary identied a number of possible service providers and undertook a rigorous process to Commitment arrive at a recommendation for the Board to appointment All Non-executive Directors including the Chairman confirmed on Rathmullan Associates Rathmullan, a boutique evaluation and appointment that they had sufficient time available to full their performance audit consultancy.
Rathmullan does not and has not obligations as Directors and that they would inform the Board should provided other services to the Company.
After appointment by the the position change.
Details of the Chairmans other significant Board, the Chairman and Company Secretary agreed a brief with professional commitments are included in his biography page 11.
Rathmullan in accordance with the Boards instructions and each of the Directors and the Company Secretary were then individually Summaries of Executive Directors service agreements and interviewed, following which, Rathmullan collated and provided Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are published on the feedback on the Board.
All significant commitments of Non-executive Directors were disclosed to the Board prior to their appointment and The review concluded that the Board is effective and Board the Board was informed of subsequent changes.
No Executive relationships are working well with suitably challenging, constructive Director is a non-executive director or chairman of a FTSE 100 and respectful interaction between Directors.
benets, it concluded, from the Board being more visible to the wider business through more frequent visits to operational sites and Development from better focus on succession planning at the level immediately The Company Secretary ensures that Directors undergo a below the Board.
No performance concerns related to individual comprehensive induction programme on appointment.
Sue Farrs Directors were identied.
induction programme included visits to the Groups main operating sites Foston, Nuneaton, Severnside, Frome and Davidstow.
Those As the incumbent and incoming Senior Independent Directors, sites were chosen to ensure that Sue saw the full range of the Howard Mann and Richard Macdonald led the review of the Groups operations.
Sue met with managers and staff at each of the Chairmans performance.
The Board reviewed the outcome of the manufacturing, packing and logistic sites included in her induction review without the Chairman present and agreed feedback for him.
She received presentations explaining their histories The review was positive, the Board being satisfied with the and operations and undertook tours to see their activities first hand.
appropriateness of allocation of Board time, especially for strategic Through a tailored induction programme, Sue met with management matters.
Directors were happy that the Chairman facilitates and staff representing a cross section of the business including discussion at Board meetings well and pays appropriate attention to those at the Groups head ofce in Esher.
ensuring that all perspectives are aired.
It was agreed that the Chairman should raise his own prole in the wider business by Directors variously receive independent training on technical undertaking more site visits alone and that the Board could be accounting and other governance related matters from professional further enhanced by the Chairman facilitating more frequent service providers and institutions and bulletins from the Group on interaction between Directors outside Board meetings.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 53 In addition to the broader review of their performance by their fellow approved by the Board and reviewed each July and November Directors as part of the Board review, the performance of the when, where required, appropriate remedial action is agreed.
Executive Directors in the context of their management and t Exercise of oversight by the Audit Committee, with input from the operational responsibilities was appraised in the normal way, in Groups Internal Auditor, over the Groups control processes accordance with the Groups performance and development review designed to ensure the integrity of internal and external financial process which applies to all Hay Grade employees in the Group, reporting.
Under that process, the Chairman appraises t The preparation of monthly management accounts packs for the the performance of the Chief Executive and the Chief Executive business, including KPI dashboards for each constituent part of appraises the performance of the other Executive Directors.
The the Groups business, trading results, balance sheet and cash ow outcome of the reviews of performance of all of the Executive information by business Division with comparison against prior Directors was scrutinised by the Remuneration Committee.
year and budget, all of which are reviewed by the Management Board and the Board.
The Boards Committees have considered their performance and t Monthly scrutiny of performance against budget including action plans addressing areas considered appropriate for further analysis of key trends, variances and key risks and plans for enhancement.
mitigation as well as the continued appropriateness of those risks in meetings known internally as Accounts Reviews where each business Division and key department reports performance Re-election year-to-date and forecast against budget to a panel comprising The Articles require all Directors to be elected annually.
All Directors the Management Board and other senior executives.
will stand for re-election at the Companys 2012 AGM, except for t Formal documented financial controls and procedures including Sue Farr who, consistent with the Articles will stand for election, specic procedures for treasury transactions and the approval of having been appointed since the last AGM.
t Quarterly completion by each business Division of a selfHaving regard to the roles performed by each of the Directors, the assessment controls questionnaire that requires the approval of individual input and contribution they make and their individual business unit management.
expertise and experience, the Board is satisfied that each t Preparation and refreshment of risk registers which are reviewed candidates performance justifies nomination for election or by senior management, the Management Board and the Board re-election by shareholders.
with the assignment of individual responsibility for the ownership and mitigation of significant risks to senior managers and Financial and business reporting independent assurance over the appropriate implementation and The Directors recognise their responsibility to present a balanced operation of mitigating activities provided by the Groups Internal and understandable assessment of the Companys position and Auditor.
Their responsibility statement can be found at page 56. t Review by the Audit Committee of the Groups risk register processes.
An explanation of the Companys business model can be found t Review and approval of the Audit Plan for the Groups Internal under Strategy in the Chairmans Statement at page 13 and at Auditor together with progress against and revision of the Plan as pages 19 to 37.
The Directors make appropriate going concern appropriate, throughout the year.
statements in the Interim and Preliminary Results Announcements t Receipt by the Audit Committee and the Management Board of all and the Annual Report and Accounts.
The statement in this Report Group Internal Audit reports detailing audit issues noted, and Accounts can be found at page 46. corrective action plans and progress against those plans.
Risk management and internal control The Board has responsibility for establishing the nature and extent of Report of the Audit Committee the significant risks it is prepared to take in the achievement of its Members objectives, for the establishment and maintenance of systems of risk Details of the members of the Committee at the date of this Report management and internal control and for reviewing their and any changes throughout the year together with details of effectiveness.
The Board confirms that it has maintained sound attendance at meetings are set out at page 11. systems of risk management and internal control throughout the year which it has regularly reviewed during the year and which it is Terms of reference satisfied accord with the FRC Guidance on Internal Control revised The Committee reviews its terms of reference at least annually, October 2005.
The systems are designed to manage, rather than having regard, amongst other matters, to their continued compliance eliminate risks entirely: accordingly, they cannot provide absolute with the requirements of the Code, the FRCs Guidance on Internal assurance against material misstatement or loss.
They provide, Control revised October 2005 and the Guidance on Audit however, reasonable assurance that potential problems can be Committees December 2010.
Under its terms of reference, the promptly identied and appropriately remedied.
Committee is responsible for providing advice to the Board on the Groups Interim and Preliminary Results Announcements and Annual The key components of the risk management and internal control Report and Accounts: on accounting policies and on the control of systems include: its financial and business risks as well as reviewing the work of the t The reservation to the Board of control of, amongst other matters, Internal and External Auditors.
all significant strategic, financial and organisational risks.
t A management structure which includes clear lines of Frequency of meetings responsibility and documented delegations of authority with The Audit Committee met four times in 2011 12.
The Chairman of the appropriate policies, levels and rules for, amongst other matters, Audit Committee provided a report on the work of the Committee incurring capital expenditure or divesting of the Groups assets.
and any significant issues that may have arisen at the Board meeting t The operation of comprehensive financial and strategic planning, following each Committee meeting.
forecasting and review processes including an annual budget Governance 54 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued Attendees at meetings t Evaluating the performance of the External Auditor and satisfying The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Chairman and other itself as to the effectiveness of the audit.
senior management attend Committee meetings by invitation of the t Reviewing the Groups risk management processes and controls: Committee.
Representatives of the Groups External Auditor and the and their effectiveness.
Head of Group Internal Audit also attend these meetings by t Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups whistle blowing invitation.
In 2011 12, the External and Internal Auditors attended all procedures and satisfying itself that they allow for appropriate meetings, had direct access to the Committee during the meetings investigation and suitable follow-up actions.
and time was also set aside for them to have private discussions t Reviewing the effectiveness of the Committee.
jointly and independently with the Committee, in the absence of management.
External Auditor The Committee is responsible for overseeing the relationship with Audit Committee activity the External Auditor.
During 2011 12, the Committees work schedule embraced the Code requirements to: During the year, the Committee: t Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, t Approved the audit engagement letters and fee proposal, and and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial satisfied itself as to the External Auditors ability to conduct an performance, including reviewing significant financial reporting effective audit for such fee.
judgements and any disclosures contained in them.
t Reviewed and assessed the External Auditors independence and t Review the Companys internal financial controls and its internal objectivity taking into account relevant UK professional and control and risk management systems and to make regulatory requirements.
In doing so, the Committee reviewed the recommendations to the Board.
External Auditors own policies and procedures to safeguard its t Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit objectivity, independence and integrity together with its function.
The Committee received t Make recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the assurances from the Audit Engagement Partner that the External shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the Auditors reward and remuneration structure included no appointment, re-appointment and removal of the External Auditor incentives for audit engagement partners to cross sell non-audit and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the services to audit clients.
t Reviewed the Groups policy on the engagement of the External t Review and monitor the External Auditors independence and Auditor for the provision of non-audit services.
The Committee objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into was satisfied that such non-audit services as had been provided consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory by the External Auditor during the year had been provided in requirements.
accordance with the Groups policy.
t Review the Groups policy on the engagement of the External t Approved the annual Audit Plan and ensured that it was consistent Auditor to supply non-audit services and report to the Board with the scope of the audit engagement.
identifying matters in respect of which it considers action or t Reviewed the findings of the audit, including discussion of any improvement is needed and make recommendations as to the major issues arising, any accounting and audit judgements and steps to be taken.
the internal control reports including responses from management and any proposed remedial action.
t Reviewed the effectiveness of the audit and the External Auditor.
The Committees work during the period and up to the date of this t Reviewed the composition of the External Auditors team against Report included: auditor independence criteria, including the rotation of the Audit t Reviewing the Interim and Preliminary Results Announcements Engagement Partner.
and the Annual Report and Accounts prior to their submission to the Board.
In doing so, it took into account the External Auditors Internal Audit function view and considered reports from financial management and The Committee is required to assist the Board to full its Group Internal Audit.
responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans t Reviewing significant accounting policies, financial reporting of the Group Internal Audit function.
In doing so, the Committee: issues and judgements used in the preparation of the Companys t Reviewed and assessed the annual Internal Audit Plan and Interim and Preliminary Results Announcements and the Annual progress against it throughout the year.
t Reviewed all reports on the Group from Internal Audit.
t Reviewing managements letters of representation in connection t Reviewed the interaction between the Internal Audit function and with the Companys financial statements and the External External Auditor.
t Reviewed and monitored managements responsiveness to the t Reviewing areas where control weaknesses had arisen or been findings and recommendations of Group Internal Audit.
identied by Group Internal Audit or the External Auditor and t Reviewed a report from the Head of Group Internal Audit on risk monitoring the mitigation and remediation plans of management.
t Reviewing the regular reports of the External Auditor and the t Reviewed the implementation of recommendations to enhance the comments provided on the strength of the Groups internal effectiveness of Group Internal Audit arising from the independent controls.
review conducted by PwC in 2010 2011.
As a result of that review, t Receiving and reviewing regular reports from the Groups Internal Group Internal Audit commenced audit of the existence and Audit function.
effectiveness of controls cited in the Groups risk registers t Approving the External Audit Plan including audit scope, level of designed to mitigate against identied risks, thereby providing materiality, resources dedicated to the audit engagement and the independent assurance to the Board, Management Board and seniority expertise and experience of the engagement team and others that the controls and mitigation which management states satisfying itself as to the appropriateness and adequacy of the to have been implemented, have in fact been implemented and Plan.
Conversely where they have not been Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 55 implemented or are not effective, Group Internal Audit is able to t Due diligence and related advice for potential acquisitions, ag such issues to the Audit Committee and Board and to disposals or joint ventures provided any potential conict with management so that appropriate remediation may be vendor, purchaser or advisers is resolved.
During the year, consistent with the outcome of t Advice on complex structured tax planning or tax planning for PwCs review, the nature and scope of audits undertaken by major corporate activity.
Group Internal Audit was extended to include operational audits t Advice, review and or assistance on governance over major and non-financial risk audits in addition to the financial control projects impacting core IT systems.
audits traditionally undertaken, for example, an audit of contracts t Review of IT systems and other controls and risk management against the Groups purchasing and legal contracts review processes.
t Provision of seminars and training with regard to auditing, tax and t Reviewed Group Internal Audits charter dealing with that accounting matters including the provision of online reference functions role, scope, resourcing, reporting responsibilities, materials.
t Provision of services for the formatting and ling of statutory accounts and or tax returns.
Policy on the engagement of the External Auditor for the t Assistance and consultation as to questions, comments or provision of non-audit services inquiries made by regulatory agencies.
The Groups policy was revised during the year.
Although the policy t Data migration reviews.
already included a series of safeguards designed to ensure t Advice and assistance with Group corporate structure.
independence, the Committee felt that the Groups policy should be t Provision of assistance with government grant applications.
strengthened further by the inclusion of a presumption against the use of the External Auditor for non-audit services.
Accordingly, the External Auditors fees External Auditor may now only be engaged for the provision of Details of fees paid to the External Auditor for audit services, audit non-audit services, in contravention of that presumption, which are related services and other non-audit services may be found at Note expressly permitted and not prohibited and where there is a 3 to the Accounts on page 72. demonstrable efficiency, audit enhancement, or cost benefit in doing so, and alternative providers have been considered.
Re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young was first appointed as External Auditor to the Company in 1996.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Use of the External Auditor for any of the following services is Company with regard to its appointment.
The Audit Committee has prohibited: not considered it necessary since its initial appointment to require t Bookkeeping services and preparation of financial information.
the rm to tender competitively for the audit work.
In the light of the t Internal audit.
assessments and review undertaken and having considered a t The design, supply or implementation of financial information recommendation of the Committee to re-appoint Ernst & Young as systems.
the Companys and Groups External Auditor, the Board endorsed t Payroll services and processing.
the Committees recommendation which was approved by t Actuarial services.
shareholders in July 2011. t Executive management services including the secondment of staff to perform management functions.
At its meeting in May 2012, the Audit Committee considered the t Recruitment services or other Human Resources functions.
appropriateness of the re-appointment of Ernst & Young as the t Legal, broker, investment or banking services.
Groups External Auditor for the 2012 13 year.
In doing so it took t Appraisal or valuation services.
account of the public report on the 2010 11 inspection of Ernst & t Advice in co-ordination of risk assessments, methodology and Young published by the Audit Inspection Unit of the Financial systems.
Reporting Council, the Annual Report of the Audit Inspection Unit t Any other service which the External Auditor considers might 2010 11, the Committees review of the External Auditors impair or appear to impair its independence.
independence and objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit t Any other service which may be deemed inappropriate by a process together with other relevant review processes conducted relevant regulator.
The Committee noted that a new Audit Engagement Partner would be appointed in accordance with Ernst Any engagement for the provision of non-audit services must be & Youngs normal rotation policy and was satisfied that it should pre-authorised and must not be deemed to be inconsistent with the recommend to the Board the re-appointment of Ernst & Young as External Auditors objectivity and independence.
The fee thresholds the Companys and Group External Auditor at the AGM on 17 July at which authorisation is required, have been reduced, thus 2012. curtailing further the scope for the engagement of the External Auditor for the provision of non-audit services.
Under the revised Dialogue with shareholders policy, services with fees anticipated to be up to 25,000 must be The Group believes it is important to explain business developments pre-approved by the Group Finance Director and services where and financial results to its shareholders and to understand any anticipated fees are over 25,000 must be pre-approved by the shareholder concerns, and that suitable arrangements are in place Group Finance Director and chairman of the Committee.
Moreover, to ensure a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of where aggregate estimated fees in any financial year are more than major shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance 75% of estimated Group audit fees, then before the Group Finance Director have primary responsibility for investor relations.
They are Director or Audit Committee chairman authorise the provision by the supported by the Companys Corporate Affairs Director who, External Auditor of any additional non-audit services, the Committee amongst other matters, organises presentations for analysts and shall formally review all fees for that financial year.
institutional investors and holds meetings with key institutional shareholders to discuss strategy, financial performance and Subject to the above approvals the following are permitted non-audit investment activities immediately after the Interim and Preliminary services under the policy: Results Announcements.
Slide presentations made to institutional Governance 56 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance continued shareholders are also available on the Companys website.
All the law and the Articles, either posted in hard copy to shareholders or Non-executive Directors, and, in particular, the Chairman and Senior posted on the Companys website at least 21 days before the date Independent Director, are available to meet with major shareholders, if of the AGM.
Resolutions are proposed for each substantially such meetings are required.
Further financial and business information separate issue.
The Company proposes a resolution at the AGM is available on the Investors section of the Companys website.
relating to the Annual Report and Accounts.
Details of the proxy voting on each resolution are announced at the AGM after the Feedback from meetings with shareholders is provided to the Board results of the show of hands are known.
Proxy results, including the to ensure that the Non-executive Directors have a balanced level of votes for and against resolutions, and abstentions are posted understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
on the Companys website following the conclusion of the meeting.
This includes communication with the shareholders at the AGM, regular feedback from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Access to information Director on their meetings with major shareholders, and periodic Interim and Preliminary Results Announcements and Annual Reports reports to the Board on investor relations together with feedback and Accounts are published on the Companys website.
The from the Companys brokers on the views of major shareholders.
Company continues to seek more opportunities to communicate with shareholders electronically, that being the most efficient, cost The principal method of communication with private shareholders is effective and environmentally beneficial manner of communication.
through the Interim and Preliminary Results Announcements and the Other information which shareholders and third parties are entitled Annual Report and Accounts, the AGM and through the Companys to access is made available in accordance with legislative and website.
Constructive use of the AGM Approval A business review is presented by the Chairman at the AGM to The Corporate Governance Statement and the Audit Committee facilitate shareholder understanding of the Groups activities.
report contained in it have been approved by the Board.
Arrangements are made for all Directors to be available to answer shareholders questions.
All Directors attended the AGM in July 2011.
Notice of the AGM is, in accordance with applicable company Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the Group and Company financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Companies Act and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and of the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud or other irregularities.
Under Company Law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of financial position of the Group and Company, financial performance the corporate and financial information included on the Groups of the Group and cash ows of the Group for that period.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparing the financial statements the Directors are required to: preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
t select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and DTR 4.1 Statement Errors and then apply them consistently: Each of the Directors, the names and functions of whom are set out t present information, including accounting policies, in a manner on pages 10-11 confirms that to the best of his her knowledge, they that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial information: statements in accordance with applicable accounting standards and t provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand liabilities and financial position of the Group and the Company and of the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions the Groups income statement and the Companys profit for that on the financial position of the Group and Company and period.
In addition, each of the Directors confirms that the performance of the Group: management report represented by the Directors Report includes a t state that the Group and Company has complied with IFRSs, fair review of the development and performance of the business and subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the the position of the Company and Group, together with a description financial statements: and of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
t make judgements and estimates that are responsible and prudent.
On behalf of the Board The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and Mark Allen Chief Executive Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at Alastair Murray Finance Director any time the financial position of the Group and of the Company and
