SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE Corporate governance The Financial Services Authority FSA requires listed companies The duties of the Board and its committees are set out clearly todisclose, in relation to the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 in formal terms of reference, copies of which are available from theCode, how they have applied its principles and whether they www.
These are reviewed regularly, stating the have complied with its provisions throughout the accounting year.
items specically reserved for decisions by the Board.
The Board establishes overall Group strategy, including new activities and The Board of Kesa Electricals plc supports the principles of corporate withdrawal from existing activities.
It approves the Groups commercial governance advocated by the Code and the Board believes that it strategy and the operating budget and monitors divisional performance complies in full with the terms of the Code.
through the receipt of monthly reports and management accounts.
Theprocess for the approval of acquisitions divestments for the most Directors part is a matter reserved for the Board save that it delegates to the The Board consists of a Chairman, a Chief Executive plus one further Chief Executive the responsibility for such activities up to a specified Executive Director and following the appointment of Alison Reed in level of authority.
Similarly, there are authority levels covering capital February 2012 five Non-Executive Directors.
There is a clear division expenditure, which can be exercised by the Chief Executive.
Beyond of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
these levels of authority, projects are referred to the Board for approval.
All the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be Other matters reserved to the Board include: independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances which could affect, or appear to affect, a Directors Overview of financial control, audit and risk management.
Alan Parker is the Senior Independent Director.
Andrew Robb, an independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration: Audit Committee, is a qualied accountant.
He is considered to have The Groups framework of executive remuneration and recent and relevant financial experience.
its cost in the light of recommendations made by the Remuneration Committee.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its Directors and is satisfied that these do not conict with their duties as Non-Executive The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors do not hold any Non-Executive Directorships in other companies.
Senior management succession plans and the overall direction of management development.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms and the details of their respective appointments are set out in the report Pension schemes.
on Directors remuneration and related matters on page 42.
Copies of their respective letters of appointment or contracts are available for Corporate responsibility.
inspection at the Companys registered ofce and will also be available for inspection at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary.
All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and opportunity after their appointment and thereafter in accordance with of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
This includes Article 82 of the Companys Articles of Association.
The Directors are monthly management accounts irrespective of whether or not a Board following the best practice requirements of Principle B7.1 of the meeting is scheduled.
There is also a procedure under which Directors, Code and all will be retiring at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, in furtherance of their duties, are able to take independent professional and are offering themselves for re-election.
David Newlands will be advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Company retiring at the Annual General Meeting and, if elected, Alan Parker will Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are replace him as Chairman.
Andrew Robb will also be retiring at the followed and all Directors have access to his advice and services.
Annual General Meeting and, if elected, Alison Reed will replace him as Chair of the Audit Committee and she is considered by the Board The Directors receive training as part of their induction from the to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Companys legal advisers on the duties and responsibilities of being Directors of a publicly limited company.
The training needs of the The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet as a group without Directors are periodically discussed at Board meetings and briengs are the Executive Directors present.
The Non-Executive Directors meet in given by the Company Secretary on various elements of corporate the absence of the Chairman if there are any concerns, which the governance, regulatory compliance and best practice.
Chairman has failed to resolve, or to consider his performance or terms of appointment.
During the financial period, the Board, and each of the Audit and Remuneration Committees undertook performance evaluations.
The role of the Chairman is to ensure that the Board has full and timely The individual committee members initially completed separate access to all relevant information.
The Chairman leads the Board and questionnaires.
The results were compiled and analysed by the represents the Board to the Chief Executive as necessary between Company Secretary, who prepared reports to the Board and each of Board meetings.
The areas covered included the role of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the Board Board committees, preparation for and the performance at meetings, the effectiveness of the Board Board committees, leadership and culture and corporate 32 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE governance.
The results were considered by the Board and each of The main role and responsibilities are set out in written terms of these committees in meetings.
The Board and Board committees reference which encompass those recommended by the Combined consider that they are operating effectively.
Code, i. e: The Senior Independent Director, Alan Parker, also met with the To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman, to assess reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements theChairmans effectiveness.
Details of the Chairmans professional contained therein.
commitments are included in his biography on page 27.
To review the financial reports for publication and to ensure During the year ended 30 April 2012, the Board met eight times.
compliance with all accounting policies and standards.
This is felt adequate to enable effective running of the Company.
Theattendance record of individual Directors at Board and committee To review the Companys compliance with legal and regulatory meetings is detailed below: requirements.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination To review the Companys internal financial control and risk 8 meetings 5 meetings 2 meetings 1 meeting management systems and to review risk exposures and steps taken to monitor and control them.
David Newlands 8 N A N A 1 Thierry Falque-Pierrotin 8 N A N A 1 To monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal Dominic Platt 8 N A N A N A audit function.
Bernard Dufau 8 5 2 1 Michel Lonard 8 5 2 1 To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the Alan Parker 8 5 2 1 appointment of the external auditor and to approve the Alison Reed 2 2 0 0 remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor.
Andrew Robb 8 5 2 1 Appointed to the Board on 8 February 2012 To monitor and review the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account UK professional David Newlands will retire as Chairman at the forthcoming Annual and regulatory requirements.
If he is re-elected as a Director Alan Parker will become Chairman, and Michel Lonard will be appointed as Senior To monitor the operation of formal complaints procedures, Independent Director.
The Board has established a number of committees, including Audit, To satisfy itself that the Companys code of conduct is being enforced.
Remuneration and Nomination Committees: The removal and appointment of the Group Director of Risk a Audit Committee Management and Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee consists of five Non-Executive Directors, considered by the Board to be independent.
They are Andrew Robb These responsibilities have been discharged in the following manner in Chairman, Bernard Dufau, Michel Lonard, Alan Parker and, from the past financial year: 8February 2012, Alison Reed.
The Committee has at least one member, Andrew Robb, who possesses recent and relevant financial experience.
At its meetings in May, June, September and December 2011 the It will be seen from the Directors biographical details, appearing on focus was the review of the Annual report and financial statements, page 27, that the members of the Committee bring to it a wide range the half-year report and the interim management statements of experience from positions at the highest level both in the UK and respectively.
For the Annual report and financial statements, France.
Subject to her being elected it is intended that Alison Reed and the half-year report the Committee received reports from the will replace Andrew Robb as Chair of the Audit Committee.
external auditors identifying any accounting or judgemental issues requiring its attention.
The Committee normally meets at least four times a year.
Both the external auditors and the Director of Audit and Risk Management were A report from the Director of Audit and Risk Management was present at the meetings and, in addition, it is common practice for the presented at each of the five meetings, which highlighted any Committee to meet the external auditors without management present.
significant risk and control issues.
In addition, at the May 2011 The Director of Audit and Risk Management has the right to request meeting, the Director of Audit and Risk Management submitted a meeting without other management present, and he regularly meets the internal audit plans for the coming year.
the Chairman of the Audit Committee without management being present.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director attend meetings The external auditors presented their audit plans at the March 2012 as appropriate.
meeting, and there was a detailed review of the external auditors performance at the September 2011 meeting.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of meetings to the Board and the Board receives the minutes of all Audit Committee meetings.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 33 SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE Corporate governance Presentations were made to the Committee on the subject of risk, The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference covering the its identication, management and control.
authority delegated to it by the Board.
These include the following duties: As a matter of routine, the Committee was presented with To review regularly the Board performance, including structure, information on material litigation involving Group companies.
size and composition and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
As noted above, one of the duties of the Audit Committee is to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the Board appointments and removals are matters reserved for the external auditors.
The Committee, in assessing whether to recommend Board.
It is the responsibility of the Nomination Committee to identify the auditors for re-appointment, takes a number of factors into and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board, to ll Board account.
These include: vacancies as and when they arise and to review succession plans for both Board and senior executive positions.
The quality of reports provided to the Audit Committee and the Board and the quality of advice given: Setting policy for granting of service agreements including mitigation policy.
The level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups business and industry: Share capital and control The disclosures required under DTR 7.2.
6 are to be found on page 30 The objectivity of the auditors views on the controls around the of the Directors report.
Group: and Relations with shareholders Their ability to co-ordinate a global audit working to tight deadlines.
The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders and does this through its Annual and Interim reports and The Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the at the Annual General Meeting.
Although it does not have precise rules independence of the audit is not compromised and the auditors are covering meetings with institutional shareholders, it is always ready to restricted in their ability to perform any non-audit activities.
Arrangements enter into a dialogue with investors, and meetings take place frequently.
are in place for the auditors to report to the Committee on actions they take to comply with the professional and regulatory requirements and best The Board believes that good communication with shareholders is practice designed to ensure their independence from the Company.
There are programmes for the Chief Executive and Finance Director to meet the Companys institutional investors in the UK and b Remuneration Committee Europe and presentations are made on the operating and financial The Remuneration Committee consists exclusively of Non-Executive performance of the Group and its longer-term strategy.
Roadshows are Directors considered by the Board to be independent: Alan Parker held in the UK and Europe immediately after the presentation of the Chairman, Bernard Dufau, Michel Lonard, Andrew Robb and, from full-year and interim results.
If it is not possible to arrange face-to-face 8February 2012, Alison Reed.
If Alan Parker is appointed as Chairman meetings, meetings are held by telephone conference.
The presentations of the Board, then Michel Lonard will be appointed as Chairman made to representatives of the investment community following the of the Committee.
The Committees responsibilities include setting announcement of the full-year and interim results are available online at remuneration policy, ensuring that the remuneration and terms of service www.
com as a web cast of the results presentations.
of the Executive Directors are appropriate and that Directors are fairly rewarded for their individual contribution to the Companys overall The Non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the views performance.
It also ensures that the allocation of shares under the of institutional shareholders, and the Senior Independent Director, Groups share schemes are on a fair and equitable basis and in AlanParker, is available to meet institutional shareholders should there accordance with agreed performance criteria.
The application of be unresolved matters that shareholders believe should be brought corporate governance principles in relation to Directors remuneration to his attention.
is described in the report on Directors remuneration and related matters on pages 37 to 43.
The principal communication with private investors is through the Annual report, the half-year management statements and the Annual General c Nomination Committee Meeting.
A presentation is made at the Annual General Meeting to The members of the Nomination Committee are David Newlands facilitate greater awareness of the Groups activities.
Shareholders are Chairman, Thierry Falque-Pierrotin, Andrew Robb, Bernard Dufau, given the opportunity to ask questions of the Board and the Chairman Michel Lonard, Alan Parker and, from 8 February 2012, Alison Reed.
of each Board committee at the meeting and meet the Directors The Committee is chaired by the Senior Independent Director on any informally after the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for matter concerning the Chairmanship of the Company.
If Alan Parker each item of business and the for, against and abstention proxy isappointed as Chairman of the Board, Alan Parker will also become votes cast in respect of each resolution proposed at the meeting are Chairman of the Committee.
counted and announced after the shareholders present have voted on each resolution.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is posted to shareholders with the Annual report at least 20 working days before the date of the Annual General Meeting.
34 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE Financial and other information including the terms of reference for The Audit Committee has delegated r esponsibility for the Board and Board committees are available from the Companys considering operational, financial and compliance risks on registered ofce and are also available on the Companys website a regular basis and receives reports on the controls over these www.
This includes risks arising from social, environmental and ethical matters.
Accountability, risk management and internal control It is a requirement of the Code that the Board should present a Control environment and control activities: balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position The Group consists of a number of operating companies, and prospects.
In this context, reference should be made tothe each with its own management and control structures.
statement of Directors responsibilities on page 44, which includes a statement of compliance with the Code regarding the Groups The Gr oup has established procedures for delegated authority, status as a going concern, and to the report of the auditors which ensure that decisions that are significant, either because onpage 45, which includes a statement by the auditors about of the value or the impact on other parts of the Group, are taken their reporting responsibilities.
The Board recognises that its responsibility to present a balanced and The Gr oup has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with understandable assessment extends to interim and other price each significant risk that has been identied.
These strategies sensitive public reports and reports to regulators as well as information include not only internal controls but also other approaches such required to be presented by law.
The Board has in place systems and as insurance, joint ventures and treasury activities.
procedures for controlling and managing the preparation and release of these reports.
The operating companies work within a framework of policies and procedures laid down in organisation and authority manuals, Internal control and personnel are required to comply with these procedures.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal Policies and procedures cover key issues such as authorisation control and for reviewing its effectiveness and confirms that such a levels, segregation of duties, compliance with legislation and review has taken place throughout the year ended 30 April 2012 and physical and data security.
The Group has also established up to the date of this report.
Such a system is designed to manage a whistle-blowing policy.
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against Information and communication: material mis-statement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control effectiveness of the key procedures which have been established including monthly performance reviews for each major business to provide internal control.
These reviews are at a detailed level within the operating companies and at a higher level for the Group Board.
In line with publication of guidance for Directors on internal control inthe Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing On a monthly basis, the achievement of business objectives, process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant both financial and non-financial, is assessed using a range risksfaced by the Group.
These include those relating to social, ofkey performance indicators.
These indicators are reviewed environmental and ethical matters.
The process is reviewed by the toensure that they remain relevant and reliable.
Audit Committee, which reports its findings for consideration by the Board, and is in accordance with the Code andthe Turnbull Ther e are clear procedures in the major operating companies Committee guidance.
for employees to report suspected improprieties.
The key procedures, which operated throughout the year, are as follows: Monitoring: The effective application of internal control within the Group is Risk assessment: monitored by the following: The Group sets out its objectives clearly as part of its mediumterm planning process.
These objectives are then incorporated The Audit Committee, which in respect of the Group: as part of the budgeting and planning cycle and are supported by the use of both financial and non-financial monitors the integrity of the financial statements and any formal key performance indicators.
announcements relating to the financial performance: The operating companies make presentations on risk to their reviews internal financial controls and systems, and other audit committees whose reports are incorporated in the risk internal control and risk management systems including reports assessment reviewed by the Group Audit Committee, which from the external auditors and internal audit on any material reports to the Group Board on the risks and any weaknesses controlweaknesses: facing the businesses.
reviews risk management processes: The detailed assessment of strategic risks is delegated to the Chief Executive.
This review is carried out as part of the annual monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function budgeting and the monthly reporting and reforecasting cycles.
and the functions work plans.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 35 SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE Corporate governance The business head of each major operating company, who: The Directors can confirm that they review the effectiveness of this system of internal control, and that it accords with the guidance of the maintains systems that continually identify and evaluate significant Turnbull Committee on internal control.
risks resulting from their strategies and that apply to their areas of the business: The Boards review of the system of internal controls has not identied any significant failings or weaknesses, and therefore no remedial reviews and monitors the effectiveness of internal control systems actions are required.
through an operating company audit committee and reports from internal and external audit functions: has responsibility for identication and evaluation of significant risks to their business area, together with the design of mitigating controls: has responsibility for their local audit committee: supported by their operating company audit committee, reports on any control weaknesses or breakdowns that could be material to the Group: certies with the Finance Director for the operating company that all necessary information has been provided to the auditors.
The Internal Audit and Risk Management function, which: works with the operating companies to develop, improve and embed risk management tools and processes into their business operations: oversees the operation of the individual operating businesss auditcommittee: ensures that business risks are identied, managed and regularly reviewed at all levels of the Group and that Directors are periodically appraised of the key risks in accordance with the Turnbull guidance: provides the Board and the Group Audit Committee with assurance on the control environment across the Group: ensures that the operating companies have appropriate organisation and processes to carry out regular reviews of their internal controls: monitors adherence to the Groups key policies and principles.
Whilst management at each operating business has responsibility for the identication and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their business and any mitigating actions to be taken, Group executive management reviews, identies and evaluates the risks which are significant at a Group level as well as the mitigating actions against those risks.
These are then considered by the Board.
The type of risks identied include strategic risk, external factors such as the competitive environment and regulations change management programmes, health and safety, retention of key management and macro market risks.
The internal audit plans are designed to address the controls and actions in relation to each businesss significant identied risks.
Where appropriate the risk management process will include the use of insurance.
36 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12
