CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT General principles Composition of the Board The Board is collectively accountable to the Companys Following the appointment of Philip Rogerson 1 March 2012 shareholders for good corporate governance and all Directors are the Board comprises six independent Non-executive Directors, responsible for complying with their legal and duciary obligations.
the Non-executive Chairman and two Executive Directors.
The Board is rmly committed to complying with the highest The Board has concluded that its composition throughout standards of corporate governance, which is the system of internal the year was and remains appropriately balanced.
principles, controls and processes it approves and by which the There is a clear division between the management of the fide La Rue Group is run in order to achieve its objectives while Board and the Executive Directors responsibility for managing complying with the required standards of accountability and probity.
However, no individual or small group can Compliance with The UK Corporate Governance Code dominate decision taking.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief In the period to 31 March 2012, as detailed below and in the Executive are separated and clearly dened.
The Chairman is Remuneration report on page 45, the Company complied fully primarily responsible for the working and leadership of the Board.
with the requirements of The UK Corporate Governance Code The Chief Executive is responsible for running the business and the Code.
The Code is publicly available at www.
uk implementing Board strategy and policy.
The Groups corporate governance procedures, which are The Directors biographies appear on pages 34 and 35 and the approved by the Board, define the matters reserved to the Board, Boards policy is that the Chairman and Executive Directors should the terms of reference of various Committees of the Board and the accept appointments to the boards of other companies only with functions delegated to these Committees as well as dening the the prior approval of the Board and that Non-executive Directors jobs of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and must seek the agreement of the Chairman and conrmation by the Board before accepting additional commitments that may Non-executive Directors.
The Company reviews and amends its affect the time they devote to their role.
corporate governance policies to reect changes to legislation or good practice.
Board changes Nicholas Brookes will retire as Chairman and as a Non-executive The Board approved the Code of Business Principles which Director following the AGM on 26 July 2012.
Philip Rogerson joined strengthened, reinvigorated and replaced the existing Code of Conduct and defines the Groups business principles.
This is the Board as a Non-executive Director and Chairman designate on discussed further in this section of the Annual Report and in the 1 March 2012.
Philip Rogerson is a highly experienced chairman Corporate responsibility report on page 29.
The document can and non-executive director with considerable international be found on the Groups website.
experience and well proven leadership skills.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the Code The Non-executive Directors hold letters of appointment which will relating to internal control, which require the Board to review the be displayed at the AGM, together with the Executive Directors effectiveness of internal controls and to have in place an ongoing service agreements and Directors indemnification agreements.
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks Philip Rogerson was appointed a Director since the last AGM and, including financial and non financial, operational and compliance being eligible, will offer himself for election at the AGM.
controls as well as risk management systems.
As part of the Boards process for reviewing the effectiveness of the system The Board has a policy that each Director be required to submit of internal control, it delegates certain matters to the Audit themself for annual re-election and accordingly all other Directors Committee including: will retire and offer themselves for re-election.
s 4HE REVIEW OF EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL AUDIT PLANS The existing commitments of Directors appear on pages 34 and 35 and the Board is satisfied that these commitments do s #ONSIDERATION OF INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL AUDIT REPORTS ON THE SYSTEM not conict with their ability to carry out effectively their duties of internal control as Directors of the Company.
s !NY MATERIAL CONTROL WEAKNESSES AND DISCUSSIONS WITH Subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys management on the actions taken on problem areas identied Articles and any directions given by special resolution, the by Board and Audit Committee members, in internal audit Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company.
reports or in external audit management letters Succession planning This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the The Board reviews its composition at least annually, assessing the date of approval by the Board of the Annual Report and Accounts.
skills prole, diversity, type and number of Non-executive Directors The Board concluded its latest review in April 2012. required to enable the Board to perform effectively.
On the This does not extend to associated companies or joint ventures recommendation of the Nomination Committee, Philip Rogerson where the Group does not have management control.
was appointed a Non-executive Director and Chairman designate on 1 March 2012.
He will succeed Nicholas Brookes as Chairman Board of Directors at the conclusion of the AGM on 26 July 2012.
The Board also Board diversity reviews the Groups internal talent review process in planning The Board noted the publication in February 2011 of Lord Davies Executive Director and senior management succession.
of Abersochs report Women on Boards, and the subsequent consultation undertaken by the Financial Reporting Council in Objectives of the Board relation to potential changes to the Code.
The Board agreed a number of specic areas for focus during 2011 12, including the following: Women are already well represented on the Board of fide La Rue plc.
Twenty two per cent of the Board is currently s $ELIVERING VALUE TO SHAREHOLDERS AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS comprised of women and this gure will increase to 25 per s 3TRATEGIC GROWTH OPTIONS AND MPROVEMENT 0LAN cent after Nicholas Brookes retirement at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
The Board understands the benets of greater s 3UCCESSION PLANNING FOR THE #HAIRMAN board diversity and its aspiration and expectation is to maintain s 2ISK MANAGEMENT the proportion of women on the Board to at least the current level, while maintaining exibility to ensure that all appointments are s !DOPTION OF PRACTICES TO FURTHER ENHANCE THE EFFECTIVENESS made on merit, regardless of gender.
The Groups equality and of the Boards procedures and working practices diversity policy is discussed further in the Corporate responsibility s 2EMUNERATION STRATEGY AND POLICY AND COMMUNICATION report on page 32. to shareholders to be led by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 40 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Role and operation of the Board Board evaluation and effectiveness review The Board has a programme of xed meetings during the year A performance evaluation of the Board and each of the and it also meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
The Boards Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees is carried core procedures are: out annually.
The performance evaluation for 2011 12 involved the use of an external independent facilitator.
"The Risk Committee s 3ET OUT IN THE TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE ""OARD ITS #OMMITTEES was evaluated by the Board."
"The process involved completion and Directors of online questionnaires which focused on Board composition, s 4HE CONTROL OF RISK THROUGH AGREED EVALUATION AND CONTROL expertise and dynamics, Board support and process, structure, procedures reviewed and revised annually behaviours and key issues, such as strategy and succession, against delivery of the Boards objectives and addressing any s 4O MONITOR THE COMPOSITION OF THE ""OARD THROUGH THE."
OMINATION issues identied during the previous review or which became Committee relevant during the year.
A report on the performance of the The Board has also reserved certain matters to itself to reinforce Board and each of the principal Committees was compiled by the its control of the Group.
Full details are set out on the Groups external facilitator and presented to the Board and each relevant website.
These include: Committee as a tool for discussing and agreeing appropriate actions for the forthcoming year.
s $ETERMINING THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF $IRECTORS IN PARTICULAR THOSE of the Chairman and Chief Executive The Chairman and each Committee Chairman has discussions with each Director or Committee member based on the responses s !PPROVING INTERNAL CONTROL PROCESSES and each Directors own views regarding effectiveness of the s !PPROVING THE lNAL AND INTERIM &INANCIAL 3TATEMENTS Board or Committee as a whole and the individual Directors performance.
The Senior Independent Director is responsible s !PPROVING IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE !UDIT #OMMITTEE for appraising the Chairmans performance in discussions with the recommendation of dividends the Non-executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman.
"s !PPROVING APPOINTMENTS TO AND REMOVALS FROM THE ""OARD AND The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors also meet in the the terms of reference and membership of Board Committees absence of the Executive Directors."
The Board and individual Committees considered the output from the review in May 2012 s !PPROVING THE 'ROUP S STRATEGY AND ANNUAL BUDGET and concluded that the Board, its Committees and individual s !UTHORISATION OF AUTHORITY LEVELS lNANCIAL AND TREASURY POLICIES Director performance were effective.
Any areas for improvement and any acquisition or disposal are agreed by the Board.
The Board delegates authority to run the business to the Conicts of interests Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive manages the Groups day Directors have a duty to avoid a direct or indirect interest which to day activities and presents to the Board the strategic options conicts, or may conict, with the interests of the Group unless for growth in shareholder value.
In conjunction with the Executive that conict has been authorised by the Board.
Such conict Committee, comprising the business unit managing directors and may arise by reason of a situation or a specic transaction.
The other senior executives, the Chief Executive sets the operating Board has established a process to review at least annually and, plans and budgets required to deliver the agreed strategy.
if thought appropriate, authorise any conict of interest and has The role and responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief Executive, carried out such review and authorised all Directors situational Group Finance Director, Senior Independent Director and other conicts.
Any transactional conicts are reviewed as they arise.
Directors are also clearly dened.
Full details are set out on the Directors are asked to review and confirm reported conicts of Groups website.
The Executive Directors and the Executive interests as part of the year end process.
Committee operate within clearly dened limits of authority Indemnity delegated by the Board.
To the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the The Board provides leadership of the Group within a framework UKLA Listing Rules the Company indemnifies certain ofcers of prudent and effective internal controls, including financial, so that the Company may advance defence costs in civil operational and compliance controls and risk management or regulatory proceedings on such terms as the Board may systems.
These are required to identify and manage the risks reasonably determine but any advance must be refunded if the and their potential effect whilst ensuring that material changes Director or officer is subsequently convicted.
The indemnity will are reported to the Board in a timely fashion.
The Board reviews not provide cover where the Director or officer has acted the effectiveness of those controls and systems and is assisted fraudulently or dishonestly.
by the Audit and Risk Committees.
Details of attendance at Board and Committee meetings The controls by their nature are designed to manage, rather than The number of Board meetings and Committee meetings attended eliminate, risk and can only provide reasonable but not absolute by each Director during the year was as follows: assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Details of the Directors attendance Audit Nomination Remuneration processes and controls are set out more fully in the Risk and 2011 12 Committee Board Committee Committee risk management report on pages 25 to 28.
The Board reviews Number of matters reserved to itself and the performance of management in meetings held 4 13 2 5 achieving agreed goals and objectives at its meetings.
The Board timetable ensures that the Board receives regular reports and Nicholas Brookes 13 2 5 presentations from the Executive Directors, operational managing Colin Child 13 directors and key functions.
Directors receive agendas and Board Tim Cobbold 13 2 papers generally five days before each Board meeting: minutes Warren East 3 12 1 are circulated as soon as possible after the meeting.
The Board Sir Jeremy Greenstock 13 2 5 reviews progress on implementing actions arising from the Board Sir Julian Horn-Smith 4 10 1 3 and its Committee meetings each month.
Victoria Jarman 4 13 2 Gill Rider 4 13 2 5 There is also a dened procedure for dealing with urgent matters Philip Rogerson 1 1 between Board meetings.
Appointed to the Board and Nomination and Risk Committees 1 March 2012 Any Director can request additional information from management Number of meetings held during the year while a serving Director at any time.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the General Counsel and Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The Board decides the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ST ATEMENT CONTINUED Role of Non-executive Directors The Board, having carried out the effectiveness and evaluation The Non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered process, considers the performance of each of the Directors by the Board to be independent as at 31 March 2012, have standing for election and re-election at this years AGM to be fully an appropriate range of business, financial and international satisfactory and is of the opinion that they have demonstrated experience which is relevant to the Companys activities and which ongoing effectiveness and continued commitment to the role.
allows them constructively to assist in the development of strategy.
The Board strongly supports their election and re-election and None of the Non-executive Directors holds a material shareholding recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions in the Company.
Under the Code, Nicholas Brookes ceased to be at the AGM.
independent after his appointment on 22 July 2004 as Chairman Corporate responsibility but the Board considers that his contribution and objectivity in Information on the Groups initiatives and commitment to corporate Board and Committee discussions were fully consistent with responsibility can be found in the Corporate responsibility report those of an independent director.
Sir Jeremy Greenstock is the Senior Independent Director Business ethics and shareholders may contact the Senior Independent Director fide La Rue delivers high prole security print products to if they feel their concerns are not being addressed through customers across the world, offering them security, confidence normal channels.
It is essential that the Group maintains the trust Non-executive Directors confirm on appointment and any and confidence of its customers, and everyone it deals with, both reappointment that they are able to allocate sufficient time to inside and outside fide La Rue, by demonstrating complete integrity enable them to discharge their duties properly.
Directors who have in the way the Group and its business partners behave.
been unable to attend Board or Committee meetings have made fide La Rue has clear core values and principles which govern how known their views on pertinent matters before the meeting.
the Group does business and which everyone within fide La Rue Induction and training must follow.
The way fide La Rue delivers these will be reected All new Directors receive an induction on joining the Company, in the way the Group competes for business and delivers its services.
for which the Chairman is responsible.
This covers such matters as the strategy, operation and activities of the Group including All employees are required to follow the Code of Business key financial data, and business, social and environmental risks to Principles approved by the Board when performing their duties as the Groups activities, corporate governance matters such as the employees or where they are representing fide La Rue.
In addition, role of the Board and individual Committees, and the Companys all business partners worldwide must follow this Code of Business corporate governance procedures as outlined in this report.
They Principles when they are representing fide La Rue.
are advised on the duties and obligations of directors of a listed company.
Site visits and meetings with senior management More detailed policies and procedures supplement the Code of are also arranged.
Any newly appointed Director, who has not Business Principles.
The main principles are that employees and, previously been a director of a listed company, is invited to attend where relevant, business partners must: external training covering such duties and responsibilities.
Directors s. OT ACCEPT OFFER OR ENCOURAGE BRIBES are briefed, where appropriate, by the Companys internal and external advisers, on changes to legislation, regulation or market s #OMPLY WITH HEALTH AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS AND PROTECTION practice, as well as receiving briengs from individual businesses of the environment throughout the year.
The Board received specic brieng on the s #OMPLY WITH EMPLOYMENT AND DATA PROTECTION LAW key implications for the Company of the UK Bribery Act and on appropriate measures being adopted and implemented to address s #OMPLY WITH COMPETITION ANTI TRUST LAW these.
The Directors, especially Committee Chairmen, have the s #ONDUCT BUSINESS DEALINGS WITH CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD opportunity of attending appropriate training sessions.
parties honestly The Board visits an operational site at least annually Gateshead s !VOID CONmICTS OF INTERESTS IN ANY BUSINESS DEALINGS and Debden in 2011 12.
Directors are also encouraged to visit other sites and meet with staff.
The General Counsel and s #OMPLY WITH THE #OMPANY S 3HARE $EALING #ODE Company Secretary, in conjunction with the Chairman, ensures The policies have been reviewed and updated during the year and that there is proper communication between the Board and its a programme of Code of Business Principles refresher training will Committees and senior management and that Non-executive be rolled out during 2012 13.
The Code of Business Principles is Directors receive appropriate information.
The Chairman reviews a key feature of the induction programme given to all new starters.
and the General Counsel and Company Secretary facilitates Specic online training on competition law and working with third induction and other professional development as required.
party partners TPPs is made available to relevant employees.
Directors may take independent professional advice at the The policies and procedures related to the appointment and Companys expense, although no such advice was sought during reappointment of and management of distributors, sales agents the year.
and sales consultants are regularly reviewed to drive continuous Appointments and annual election improvements of the management of bribery and corruption Following a decision by the Board in 2010, all Directors are risks.
The Group third party partner team continues to develop required to submit themselves for annual re-election.
New Directors and rene the processes and procedures for the appointment are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after of distributors, sales agents and consultants.
All applications for their appointment.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an appointment and reappointment of TPPs are managed by this initial period of two years with the expectation of three such two central team which reports directly to the General Counsel and year terms subject to satisfactory performance.
The Board may invite a Non-executive Director to serve a further Due diligence undertaken on TPPs was extended during the year.
term after six years following a detailed review at the end of this An online training module focusing on anti bribery and corruption period, subject to re-election.
and other fide La Rue policies was launched during the year for completion by TPPs, to create a consistent and auditable training platform.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 42 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Committees of the Board The Committee, chaired by the General Counsel and Company The Board has established Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, Secretary, meets and reports to the Board at least twice a year.
General Business and Risk Committees with appointed Chairmen Other members of the Committee include the Chief Executive, and xed terms of reference which are reviewed annually.
Group Finance Director, heads of the principal functions, all The terms of reference and duties of the Audit, Nomination, business unit managing directors, Group Director of Risk and Remuneration and Risk Committees appear on the Groups Internal Audit and the Group Director of Security.
Any Director website and are also available on request.
The Board is satisfied is entitled to attend any meeting.
At the year end, following review that the Committees have the appropriate balance of skills, by the Audit Committee of internal financial controls and of the experience, independence and that they discharged their processes covering these controls, the Board evaluates the responsibilities satisfactorily.
Membership of these Committees results of the risk management procedures conducted by is given in the Directors biographies on pages 34 and 35. senior management.
Further details of Committees and key activities performed The Committee is assisted by Group wide committees which during the year are given in this Annual Report.
deal with specic areas of risk such as the Health, Safety and Nomination Committee Environment Committee and the Security Committee.
The Committee consists of six independent Non-executive Details of risk management and particular risks within the Group Directors at the date of this report together with the Chairman are set out on pages 25 to 28. and the Chief Executive.
Audit Committee The Committee meets at least once a year and otherwise Warren East was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee as necessary and makes recommendations to the Board with on 1 April 2009.
He is the chief executive of a listed company regard to any vacancies for Executive or Non-executive Directors with strong financial experience.
In addition, Victoria Jarman or changes that are considered necessary.
The Committee has had relevant financial experience with Lazard Corporate Finance the power to employ the services of such advisers as it deems and before that KPMG.
All members of the Audit Committee necessary in order to carry out its responsibilities.
The Committee are independent Non-executive Directors.
The external auditors, also reviews the time commitment required of Non-executive Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, General Directors at least once a year.
The Board, as a whole, approves Counsel and Company Secretary and the internal auditors, the appointment and removal of Directors and retains appropriate Ernst & Young LLP, attend each meeting at the invitation of executive search consultants, having prepared a job specication the Committee Chairman.
Ernst & Young LLP and KPMG Audit for the particular role to be lled.
The principal activity of the Plc each meet the Committee without Executive Directors or Committee under the leadership of Sir Jeremy Greenstock employees of the Company being present.
during 2011 12 was succession planning and the recruitment of Philip Rogerson, our new Non-executive Director and Chairman The Audit Committee provides an independent overview of the designate, following a rigorous recruitment process in conjunction effectiveness of the internal financial control systems and financial with an external search consultant.
Its principal responsibilities include: Remuneration Committee s 4HE APPOINTMENT OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR AND THE AGREEMENT Gill Rider was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in of terms of engagement at the start of each audit and the July 2006 and she has been the Committee Chairman since external audit fee 26 July 2007.
Details of the Committee and of the remuneration s !PPROVING AND REVIEWING PROGRESS ON AUDIT PLANS ACROSS policy can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 45 to 52. the businesses and the effectiveness of the internal audit General Business Committee s 2EVIEWING THE INTEGRITY OF THE INTERIM AND FULL YEAR &INANCIAL The Committee meets when necessary to deal with routine Statements matters arising between scheduled Board meetings.
Only independent Non-executive Directors may decide matters relating s 2EVIEWING AND MONITORING THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR S INDEPENDENCE to the administration or the implementation of the Companys and objectivity share schemes other than for the purpose of allotting shares s 2EVIEWING REPORTS ON THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE 'ROUP S on exercise.
whistleblowing procedures and arrangements, details of which Risk Committee are set out on pages 27 and 29 The terms of reference and the composition of the Risk Committee During the year, the Audit Committee met on four occasions and were amended recently.
"Core responsibilities of the Risk dealt with the following additional matters: Committee are to: s 2EVIEWED THE #OMPANY S 400 PROCESS s !SSIST THE ""OARD BY ASSESSING AND REPORTING ON THE EFFECTIVENESS of the Companys internal control and risk management systems s 4HE RISK MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT PROCESS s !SSIST THE ""OARD IN FULlLLING ITS RESPONSIBILITIES BY REVIEWING THE framework for managing risks throughout the Group s 0ROVIDE AN APPROPRIATE LEVEL OF REPORTING ON THE STATUS OF RISK management within the Group s 0ROMOTE AWARENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROL ISSUES AND RISK management s 0ROVIDE AN APPROPRIATE LEVEL OF REPORTING TO THE ""OARD WHICH retains the overall responsibility, on the status of internal risk management fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Internal audit Independence and objectivity of auditors Assurance over the design and operation of internal controls The Audit Committee has a detailed policy covering: across the Group is provided through a combination of techniques."
s #HOOSING THE STATUTORY AUDITOR AND APPROVING THE AUDIT FEE The Board through the Audit Committee monitors the effectiveness of internal control systems through reports received from the s #OMMISSIONING NON AUDIT WORK internal audit function during the year.
The internal audit function s $ElNING CIRCUMSTANCES IN WHICH IT IS APPROPRIATE OR INAPPROPRIATE is outsourced to Ernst & Young LLP.
Internal audit continued to for incumbent auditors to be allowed to provide or prohibited ensure that efforts were better aligned to the operational risks that from providing non audit work fide La Rue faces while maintaining an emphasis on reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of general finance and IT controls s $E, A 2UE S PROCEDURES FOR PROCURING NON AUDIT SERVICES across the Group on a cyclical basis.
In addition to internal audit from external sources, which specically prohibits KPMG from work, management operate a system of self assessment internal undertaking certain types of service including but not limited to control reviews, where management are required to detail and services where it would audit its own work, where it would act in certify controls in operation to ensure the control environment in an advocacy role for the Group or where it would participate in their business areas is appropriate.
Actions agreed are followed activities normally undertaken by management up by senior management to ensure that satisfactory control is It may be cost effective for KPMG to perform certain non audit maintained.
The internal audit plan is set and reviewed by the Audit services, in particular where the skills and experience required Committee.
Additionally, the Audit Committee reviews reports from make KPMG the most suitable supplier.
Certain categories of the external auditors KPMG Audit Plc KPMG on internal control non audit services, including corporation tax compliance and matters noted as part of their audit work.
due diligence services, must be subject to competitive tender Auditors unless it is justifiable in the circumstances not to do so.
Areas The Audit Committee assesses annually the qualication, which would not normally be acceptable non audit services but in exceptional circumstances may be considered appropriate, expertise and resources and independence of the external auditors such as litigation and compliance services, require the specic prior and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Audit Committees assessment is performed by an audit satisfaction questionnaire approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The selection completed by the Chairman, relevant senior management and criteria include detailed proposals, timescales, local resource, Audit Committee members.
cost and the safeguards put in place by KPMG.
In addition, any individual assignment to be undertaken by KPMG where the fee KPMG have been the Companys auditors since 11 October 2006. is likely to be in excess of 50,000 must be approved by the Audit The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with Committee prior to any commencement of work.
During 2011 12 the auditors is working well and remains satisfied with their the amount of non audit fees paid to KPMG was 0.3m.
During the year, the Audit Committee considered the tenure, performance and audit fees of the external auditor, The safeguards KPMG put in place avoid compromising their and the level of non audit work undertaken, and recommended objectivity and independence.
They report to the Audit Committee to the Board that a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG on how they comply with professional and regulatory requirements for a further year as the Companys auditor be proposed to and best practice designed to ensure their independence.
Key shareholders at the AGM in July 2011.
The resolution was members of the KPMG audit team rotate and the rm ensures, passed and KPMG was reappointed for a further year.
where appropriate, that condentiality is maintained between different parts of the rm providing services to fide La Rue.
KPMGs Senior Statutory Auditor has served as the Groups audit engagement partner for six years, one more than would usually A copy of the Corporate governance statement will be made be the case.
The one year extension, which is permitted in certain available on the Groups website.
circumstances, was considered necessary by the Audit Committee By order of the Board in order to preserve audit quality in the context of the issues facing the Group in 2010 11 and the changes in executive management.
A new audit engagement partner will be responsible for the audit Edward Peppiatt of the Groups 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
Company Secretary The Audit Committee places great emphasis on the objectivity 29 May 2012 of the Groups auditors, KPMG, in reporting to shareholders.
The KPMG audit partner is present at Audit Committee meetings to ensure communication of matters relating to the audit.
The Audit Committee has discussions with the auditors, without management being present, on the adequacy of controls and on judgemental areas and receives and reviews the auditors highlights reports and management letters which are one of the main outputs from the external audit.
The scope and key focus of the forthcoming years audit is discussed with, and approved by, the Audit Committee.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 44
