Corporate governance report Gender ratios Role of the board is willing to take in achieving the Companys The board of Debenhams is collectively strategic and operational plans, approval of responsible for the long-term success of the Companys Financial Statements: major the Company and is ultimately accountable capital expenditure: major acquisitions and for the Groups strategy, risk management disposals: approval of changes to governance and performance.
and business policies: and a review of the eff ectiveness of the board and its committees.
Following the retirement of Adam Crozier The board delegates the operational decisions from the board on 1 September 2012, at the for the implementation of these matters to end of the year the board of Debenhams plc the Companys management.
comprised the non-executive Chairman, two executive directors and four independent Reports from the executive directors are non-executive directors.
Peter Fitzgerald circulated in advance of each board meeting Main board No.
was subsequently appointed as an and they focus on major operational matters.
Male 6 independent non-executive director Reports are also produced by specialists on Female 2 on 4 October 2012.
Dennis Millard general and Company business areas and is the Senior Independent Director.
by other executives and external advisers on key business areas.
Various sectors of the Debenhams has 25% female representation business present to the board on a rotating on the board.
Women account for one third basis.
During last year these overviews were of the executive committee and 43% of the presented by menswear, womenswear, senior management team.
In 2012 other The board held fi five meetings during 2012 matters considered by the board included which were fully attended by all the board presentations from marketing and PR, members apart from the meeting on 12 April investor relations, taxation, health and safety, 2012 which Adam Crozier was unable to human resources, approval of the annual attend due to a schedule clash.
In addition to budget and the fi five year plan, assessment the directors, board meetings were attended of the corporate risk map and a review of Executive committee No.
by the Retail Director, the HR Director, governance issues aff ecting the Company.
Male 4 the Group Trading Director, the Marketing Female 2 The Chairman and the Chief Executive Director and the Company Secretary.
The There are clear divisions of responsibilities board also held its annual offsite meeting between the Chairman and the Chief in February to consider the Companys Executive and these are set out in writing strategy.
No individual or small group of and agreed by the board.
individuals dominates the boards decisionmaking process.
The main responsibility of the Chairman is the eff ective running of the board, ensuring In accordance with the UK Corporate that the board as a whole plays a full and Governance Code, there is a formal schedule constructive part in the development and of matters reserved for the boards decision determination of the Companys strategy and which is monitored by the Company its overall commercial objectives.
He ensures Secretary and reviewed annually by the board.
that the board determines the nature and Specifi c matters reserved for the boards extent of the signifi cant risks the Company is Senior management team No.
consideration include: the approval of the willing to embrace in the implementation of Male 65 Companys business model and strategy: Female 50 its strategy.
The Chairman is responsible for determination of the level of risk the Company promoting the highest standards of integrity, Board activity throughout the year Received an update on Received an overview of Received an overview Annual Strategy Meeting Received an overview of Received an overview Health and Safety within menswear performance of womenswear home performance of childrenswear the business performance performance Approved full year results, Review of fi five year plan Approved budget for report and accounts and Met with shareholders Approval of interim fi financial year recommended the fi final at the Annual General results and resolved to dividend Meeting pay interim dividend Reviewed the annual performance evaluation of the board and its committees Debated and approved the Corporate Risk Map 58 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 September 2011 October 2011 January 2012 February 2012 April 2012 June 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 probity and corporate governance The Company Secretary Non-executive directors throughout the Company.
The Chairman The Company Secretary reports to the All the non-executive directors are considered also manages the relationship and Chairman on all board governance matters.
by the board to be independent and free communication with the shareholders of All directors have access to the services of the from any relationship or circumstances that the Company in relation to any governance Company Secretary and may take independent could aff ect their independent judgement.
He takes the lead on issues of professional advice at the Companys They have a wide range of skills and director development through induction expense in conducting their duties.
experience and provide constructive programmes and regular reviews.
By challenge in the boardroom.
Indemnifi cation of directors chairing the Nomination Committee he Qualifying third party indemnity provisions The table below details the length of service regularly considers succession planning as defi ned in section 234 of the Companies for each non-executive director.
and the composition of the board.
Act 2006 are in force for the benefi t of the The letters of appointment for the nonThe Chairman sets the board agenda.
directors who held offi ce during the year.
executive directors set out the time Together with the Company Secretary, he The Company also provides insurance cover commitment expected to be necessary for ensures that the members of the board and for its directors.
the performance of their duties.
Routinely, its committees receive clear, comprehensive, Directors confl icts of interest the expected number of days required for up-to-date and timely information so that The Nomination Committee annually each non-executive director is ten days.
there can be thorough consideration of the reviews and considers the interests and other issues prior to, and informed debate and Debenhams plc recognises that the external appointments held by the members challenge, at board and committee meetings.
non-executive directors have other business of the board.
All confl icts declared were Where directors have not been able to attend interests outside of the Company and that approved at its meeting in September 2012. meetings due to confl icts in their schedule, other directorships bring benefi ts to the The directors have a continuing duty to they receive and read the papers for board.
All existing directorships are detailed inform the board of any potential confl icts consideration at that meeting, relaying any within the director biographies on pages 56 immediately so that such confl icts may comments to the Chairman in advance and 57.
Non-executive directors are required be considered and if authorised included of the meeting where possible.
to obtain the approval of the Chairman within the register of confl icts.
before accepting any further appointments.
The Chief Executive is responsible for all The Senior Independent Director executive management matters aff ecting the Performance evaluation Dennis Millard provides a sounding board for Company.
His principal responsibility is the In 2011 the performance evaluation was the Chairman and serves as an intermediary day-to-day running of the Company business facilitated by Lintstock Ltd.
This year an for the other directors as necessary.
The and the achievement of the agreed strategic evaluation of the performance of the board, Senior Independent Director also acts as objectives.
The management structure of its committees, the individual directors and a line of contact for shareholders if they the Company under the Chief Executives the Chairman was conducted internally.
This have concerns which are not appropriate leadership is shown on page 55. was led by the Chairman who interviewed all for discussion through the Chairman, board members individually and discussed Chief Executive or Chief Financial Offi cer.
the results collectively with the board.
The conclusion was that the board is operating eff ectively with plenty of energy around the Length of service for each non-executive director table.
The overviews presented to the board by the various parts of the business are Current length of proving extremely valuable.
The board service as a nonagreed to focus on further rationalisation Date of last re-election by executive director of materials it receives.
In addition, the Name Date of appointment shareholders at year end non-executive directors evaluated the Nigel Northridge 1 January 2010 10 January 2012 2 years 8 months Chairmans performance at a meeting Peter Fitzgerald 4 October 2012 n a n a chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
Martina King 1 August 2009 10 January 2012 3 years 1 month Dennis Millard 9 May 2006 10 January 2012 6 years 4 months Mark Rolfe 1 October 2010 10 January 2012 1 year 11 months Sophie Turner Laing 1 August 2009 10 January 2012 3 years 1 month Chairmans responsibilities Chief Executives responsibilities Leading the board, ensuring the Developing business strategies directors receive accurate and timely and commercial objectives for information to enable debate and high board approval quality decision making Successfully implementing the Promoting high standards business strategy of corporate governance Regularly updating the board on Accountable to shareholders for the progress against approved plans eff ectiveness of the board Ensuring that the Executive Committee Ensuring, as Chairman of the complies with all business policies, Nomination Committee, that there are delegated authorities and regulations in board succession plans in place in order achieving the objectives of the business to retain and build an eff ective and complementary board Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59 Corporate governance report continued Board committees The Companys policy identifi es three The board committees are the Audit, categories of accounting services.
The fi first Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
category is audit-related services which the The terms of reference which are reviewed auditors are permitted to provide.
The second annually of each committee can be found category is prohibited services which the at www.
The members auditors are not permitted to provide.
and the role of each committee are disclosed Prohibited services are those which might on pages 56 and 57 of this report.
result in the external auditors auditing their own work or making management decisions In 2011 the board formed the sustainability for the Company and those where some committee, a committee of the board mutuality of interest is created or where the whose aim is to embed the corporate social external auditors are put in the role of responsibility of the business within its advocate for the Company.
The sustainability committee is potential services which the auditors may, is chaired by Martina King and its members in certain circumstances, provide subject to are employees whose roles within the compliance with the independence policy.
business fall within four key work streams, These services include tax advisory services namely sustainable sourcing, environment, or services where the auditors are acting as logistics & distribution and people.
Further the Companys reporting accountant.
information on the role, operation and achievements of that committee can be 0.1 million was paid by the Company to found on pages 48 to 51 and on our dedicated  LLP for non-audit website sustainability.
services in respect of advisory services.
The audit fees paid by the pension schemes Share capital and control were 38,000.
Information which the directors are required to provide pursuant to section 992 of the Relations with shareholders Companies Act 2006 can be found on pages The board is responsible for ensuring that the 63 and 64 of the Directors Report.
Company maintains a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders.
The Chairman and the Auditor independence Senior Independent Director are always In order to ensure that an appropriate available to major shareholders.
Formal relationship is maintained with the external trading updates are given to the market auditors, a policy on auditor independence on six occasions during the year.
Following has been established and is regularly each of these announcements, conference reviewed.
This covers matters such as that calls are held with shareholders and analysts auditors and their staff should have no family, and after the full year and interim results fi financial, employment, investment or a presentation is made to the shareholders business relationship with the Company, and analysts.
Analysts or brokers briefi ngs the employment by the Company of former are circulated to the board.
audit employees, the rotation of audit partners and the provision of non-audit A programme of meetings and conference services.
The Audit Committee makes calls is organised at appropriate times during recommendations to the full board in respect the year at which the Chief Executive, of re-appointment annually of the auditors Chief Financial Offi cer and Director of and the board then ensures that this is Investor Relations discuss Company included on the notice for the Annual performance and respond to any issues General Meeting.
As regards the risk of the raised by shareholders.
During 2012 such external auditors withdrawal from the meetings were held in the UK, France, market, the Company considers that there Germany, Spain, Denmark, Sweden, are suffi cient other auditors in the market Switzerland and the USA.
place should this situation ever arise.
A series of events is being held to provide The objective of the Audit Committees policy shareholders with a greater understanding in relation to the provision of non-audit of each of the four pillars of the strategy.
services by the auditors is to ensure that the Formal feedback from shareholders is sought provision of such services does not impair the through an independently conducted external auditors independence or objectivity.
shareholder perception study which this An independent report is produced by the year took place in February 2012.
The results Debenhams fi finance team each quarter during of this study were presented to the board.
the year detailing all non-audit work, its cost, when it was carried out and who instructed it.
This information is reported to the Audit Committee at each meeting.
60 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 Nomination Committee Dear shareholder Martina King, Dennis Millard, Mark Rolfe, Sophie Turner Laing and I form your Companys Nomination Committee.
Other individuals including the Chief Executive, the HR Director and external advisors may be invited to attend for all or part of any meeting, as and when appropriate.
The Company Secretary also attends meetings in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
The Committee met twice formally during the year.
This year we have seen several changes to our board composition.
Michael Sharp took over Nomination Committee: leadership of the business in September 2011, Simon Herrick assumed the position of Chief Main activities during the year Financial Offi cer in January this year following the departure of Chris Woodhouse, our former Finance Director, and Adam Crozier stepped down from the board on 1September Conducted a review of the board size 2012 having served just over six years as an independent non-executive director.
and composition and the composition of the committees of the board following The recruitment process for the appointment of Simon Herrick was facilitated by external the new executive director appointment search consultants Egon Zehnder.
They identifi ed possible candidates for the position and and the resignation of an existing provided a shortlist for consideration by the Nomination Committee.
These candidates non-executive director met with the majority of the board members before a recommendation was made by the Committee.
Both in its recruitment and succession planning processes, the Committee Reviewed the time commitment and takes into account the board size, structure and composition having regard to the balance length of service of the Chairman and of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of psychological type, background and each non-executive director gender so as to ensure that the board is not composed of solely like-minded individuals.
Monitored directors confl icts of interest The Committees key focus this year has therefore been on succession planning to ensure Members participated in an annual that the right skill sets are present in the boardroom to support the Chief Executives board evaluation strategic plan.
Reviewed its terms of reference As last year, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Nomination Committee is recommending that all the directors of the Company stand for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
Nigel Northridge Chairman, Nomination Committee Number of meetings held Directors Position and attended during the year Nigel Northridge Committee chairman Chairman 2 2 Adam Crozier resigned 1 September 2012 Independent non-executive director 2 2 Martina King Independent non-executive director 2 2 Dennis Millard Senior independent director 2 2 Mark Rolfe Independent non-executive director 2 2 Sophie Turner Laing Independent non-executive director 2 2 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61 Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee Dear shareholder As the new chairman of the Audit Committee, I am joined by Martina King, Dennis Millard and Sophie Turner Laing to form your Companys Audit Committee.
The meetings of the Audit Committee are also attended by the Chairman, the Chief Financial Offi cer, the Director of Internal Audit and Risk Management and the external auditors,  LLP.
The Treasurer and the Head of Tax make an annual presentation to the Committee.
The Company Secretary attends all meetings in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee but also reports on any material litigation and Audit Committee: corporate governance issues.
The business experience of the members of the Committee Main activities during the year is enhanced by the considerable fi financial and accounting experience of Dennis Millard and by my own fi financial and accounting background.
Reviewed all Financial Statements released by the Company The Committee met three times during the year and also met with the Companys auditors and the Director of Internal Audit and Risk Management privately without any Monitored the eff ectiveness of the management being present.
After each meeting, the chairman reports to the board on system of internal controls and risk the matters discussed, on recommendations and on actions to be taken.
management Our responsibilities Created a business continuity The Audit Committees primary responsibilities are to monitor the integrity of Financial committee Statements including any related information presented with the Financial Statements Approved the internal audit plan and any formal announcements relating to the Companys fi financial performance, to review any changes in accounting principles and consider the appropriateness of Approved the external auditors accounting policies adopted by the Company, to review the Groups internal and external plan and fees audit activity and to review and monitor the eff ectiveness of the risk management and Reviewed its terms of reference internal control systems within the business.
External auditors appointment The Committee has primary responsibility for making a recommendation to shareholders on the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors by annually assessing the expertise, resources and independence of the external auditors and the eff ectiveness of the audit process.
 LLP has served as auditors of the Company since fl otation in May 2006, with their performance being reviewed annually.
Having considered the external auditors performance, resources, independence and objectivity, the Committee has recommended to the board the re-election of the auditors for 2013.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit engagement partner every fi five years.
The current audit partner commenced his engagement in August 2009.
The external auditor independence policy sets out the guidelines for engaging  LLP to provide non-audit services and a report is provided to each Committee meeting detailing the services and fees for all non-audit services for consideration by the Committee.
Mark Rolfe Chairman, Audit Committee Number of meetings held Directors Position and attended during the year Mark Rolfe appointed Committee Independent non- 3 3 Chairman on 1 September 2012 executive director Adam Crozier Independent non- 2 3 resigned 1 September 2012 executive director Peter Fitzgerald Independent non- 0 0 executive director Martina King Independent non- 3 3 executive director Dennis Millard resigned as Committee Senior independent 3 3 Chairman on 1 September 2012 director Sophie Turner Laing Independent non- 3 3 executive director 62 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
