Board of directors Composition of the board Nigel Northridge 56 Michael Sharp 55 Term of offi ce Chairman since April Term of offi ce Chief Executive of Directors No.
2010 following appointment as a member Debenhams plc since September 2011, Executive 2 of the board in January 2010 Deputy Chief Executive from November Non-executive 6 Experience Nigel Northridge is currently 2008 and Chief Operating Offi cer from Chairman of Paddy Power plc and a May 2006 Length of tenure non-executive director of Inchcape plc.
Experience From 1997 to 2004, of directors He also chairs the remuneration Michael Sharp was Trading Director of committee at Inchcape plc.
Previously Debenhams Limited and from January he was senior independent director of 2004 to May 2006 he was its Chief Aggreko plc, chief executive of Gallaher Operating Offi cer.
He previously worked Group plc and a non-executive director in various capacities within the Burton of Thomas Cook Group plc.
Group, including as Managing Director Committee membership of Principles and Racing Green and Nomination chairman, Remuneration Buying and Merchandising Director Other directorships of Topshop and Topman.
Paddy Power plc Committee membership Inchcape plc None Other directorships Directors No.
None Less than one year 2 One to three years 2 Three to six years 2 More than six years 2 Committees Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is responsible for board recruitment and succession planning, thereby ensuring that the right skill sets are present in the boardroom.
Simon Herrick ACA 49 Remuneration Committee Term of offi ce Chief Financial Offi cer since January 2012 following The Remuneration Committee is responsible appointment as a member of the board for determining all elements of remuneration in November 2011 for the executive directors and for reviewing the appropriateness and relevance of the Experience Simon Herrick was formerly Groups remuneration policy.
Group Finance Director and subsequently Acting Chief Executive Offi cer of Northern Foods PLC.
He is a former Audit Committee Finance Director of Kesa Electricals PLC and PA Consulting.
He has also held The Committees primary responsibilities are senior roles at Regus PLC, Hays PLC to monitor the integrity of the Groups financial and PepsiCo.
statements, to review external and internal audit Committee membership activity and to review and monitor the effectiveness of risk management and internal controls.
None Other directorships None Sustainability committee Although not a formal board committee, the sustainability committee was created by order of the board to ensure the Groups activities promote the interests of all its stakeholders.
56 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 Dennis Millard CA SA 63 Martina King 51 Peter Fitzgerald 42 Term of offi ce Senior Independent Term of offi ce Independent nonTerm of offi ce Independent nonDirector since May 2010 following executive director since August 2009 executive director since October 2012 appointment as an independent Experience Former Managing Director Experience Peter Fitzgerald is Country non-executive director in May 2006 of Aurasma, Martina King has an Sales Director for Google UK Eire having Experience Dennis Millard is currently extensive career in media technology.
worked for that business since 2007, Chairman of Halfords Group plc having Her previous roles include Managing predominantly with retail business acted as interim Executive Chairman Director of Capital Radio and Managing clients.
Previously he worked for Amazon from July to October 2012.
He is also Director for Europe at Yahoo!
where she both in Europe and the USA.
Chairman of Smiths News plc and a rebuilt the UK and Ireland business after Committee membership non-executive director of Premier Farnell the dot com collapse and subsequently Audit plc.
His former appointments include led the rebuilding of the European Other directorships Group Finance Director of Cookson Group division.
Ms King is also a non-executive None plc and non-executive director of Exel plc, director of Capita plc and Cineworld plc.
Arc International and EAG Ltd and Committee membership Xchanging PLC.
Remuneration, Nomination, Audit, Committee membership chair of sustainability committee Remuneration chairman, a committee of the board Nomination, Audit Other directorships Other directorships Capita plc Halfords Group plc Cineworld plc Premier Farnell plc Smiths News plc Mark Rolfe FCA 53 Sophie Turner Laing 52 Term of offi ce Independent nonTerm of offi ce Independent nonexecutive director since October 2010 executive director since August 2009 Experience Mark Rolfe is currently Experience Sophie Turner Laing a non-executive director of Barratt is currently Managing Director, Developments plc, Hornby plc and Entertainment, News and Broadcast The Sage Group plc.
He is also Chairman Operations at British Sky Broadcasting of Lane, Clark & Peacock LLP.
Mr Rolfe Group plc and on the board of AETN previously worked in various fi finance UK and NGC Network International LLC.
and executive roles within Gallaher In addition, she is Vice President of BAFTA Group plc including as Finance Director and a trustee of The Media Trust and for seven years until the company was the National Film and TV School.
Her previous roles include Controller, Committee membership Programme Acquisition at the BBC and Remuneration, Nomination, Vice-President, Broadcasting at Flextech Audit chairman now Virgin Media Television.
Ms Turner Other directorships Laing was also Co-founder and Managing Barratt Developments plc Director of HIT Entertainment.
Hornby plc Committee membership The Sage Group plc Remuneration, Nomination, Audit Other directorships AETN UK NGC Network International LLC Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57
