Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Corporate governance report As Chairman, the leadership and effectiveness of the Board are primarily my responsibility.
We remain committed to high standards of corporate governance, consistent with the needs of the company and the interests of all our stakeholders.
My fellow directors and I recognise the importance of sound governance in the efficient running of the company, and in particular to the effectiveness and independence of the Board and the management of risks faced by the group.
The report below sets out how we do this.
It explains the progress we have made in 2012 as we seek to bolster the range of experience and diversity on our Board, and improve the way we operate.
I am confident we have an effective Board to address the opportunities and challenges we face.
S J Hannam Chairman 14 March 2013 recently, as described on pages 26 and 27, and the Chairman is From 1 January 2012 until 31 December 2012, the company applied the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
satisfied that each continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Board composition and proceedings There is a clear division of authority and responsibility through the Mr S J Hannam, Chairman, Mr P W B Page, Chief Executive, Mr S C Webb, Group Finance Director, Mr P A J Neep, Non-Executive separation of the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
This demarcation is set out in writing and has been agreed by the Board.
Director, and Mr P N Withers, Non-Executive Director, served as directors throughout 2012.
Ms J A Lodge joined the Board as a NonDirectors of the company and its subsidiaries have the benefit of a Executive Director on 1 March 2012.
Mr S R Paterson, Non-Executive Director, stepped down from the Board at the Annual General Meeting directors and ofcers liability insurance policy.
AGM on 19 April 2012 after six years service.
The directors believe that it is essential that the group should be led and controlled by an effective Board.
The Board has adopted a formal The Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent directors.
This opinion is based primarily on careful consideration of schedule of matters specically reserved to it including: their character and judgement and their contribution to the work of the Board and its committees.
None holds any external position which s THE SETTING OF CORPORATE STRATEGY s APPROVAL OF THE ANNUAL BUDGET AND would impinge upon his or her independence or objectivity, nor are there any relationships or circumstances such as are envisaged by s MAJOR DECISIONS ON CAPITAL EXPENDITURE Provision B.
The day to day management of the business is the responsibility of executive management.
Mr P A J Neep has held the position of Senior Independent Director since October 2005.
The Board recognises in terms of Provision B.
2.3 of the Code that the independence of any Non-Executive Director Balance and diversity may be compromised if he has been in that role for a long period of The Chairman believes that an efficient Board requires a blend time.
The Board has, therefore, rigorously evaluated Mr P A J Neeps of diverse and relevant skills and backgrounds in order to ensure performance, and the Chairman is satisfied that he continues to be measured and informed decision making.
effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
The Board has therefore decided to recommend the re-election of Mr P A J Neep at In the course of 2011, the Board reviewed the Davies Report, setting the forthcoming AGM.
out the case for gender diversity on Boards, and encouraging the setting of targets for female board membership.
The Chairman and The Board views the Senior Independent Directors role as essentially the Board understand the need to ensure that the balance of the a passive one, but acknowledges that there can be occasions Board is appropriate for the requirements of the business, and the where there may be a need for shareholders to convey concerns to benets of diversity in its broadest sense are clearly understood.
the Board other than through the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
However, for a small Board, it remains difficult to set targets for The companys major shareholders are reminded that the Senior members of any particular background, and this applies to the issue Independent Director is willing to meet with them if they wish.
The Boards policy is therefore to actively encourage women to apply to join the Board whenever a vacancy Ms J A Lodge was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2012.
Until exists, and the report from the Nomination Committee on page 28 recently, she was a senior audit partner with Deloitte, where she spent sets out how this will be done.
Ultimately, any appointments must be over twenty five years advising global manufacturing companies.
made on merit, taking account of the specic needs of the business at She took over the post of Chair of the Audit Committee when the relevant times, for the benefit of the company and its stakeholders.
Mr S R Paterson stepped down from the Board at the 2012 AGM.
Information flow All directors will stand for re-election at the 2013 AGM.
As in previous On appointment to the Board, directors are provided with an induction years, brief biographies of Board members, giving details of their programme to familiarise themselves with the groups businesses experience and other main commitments, can be found on page 18, and the risks and strategic challenges facing the group, as well as the allowing shareholders to take an informed decision on the question economic, competition, legal and regulatory environments in which of re-election.
All the directors have had their performance reviewed the group operates.
25 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Corporate governance report continued The directors are supplied with detailed papers covering the groups The Board has established committees to carry out detailed independent oversight on behalf of the Board in relation to the audit of operating functions in advance of all Board meetings and a secure web-based portal is used to disseminate additional relevant information the company, health and safety issues, the remuneration of directors, on a regular basis.
the recruitment of new directors and the risks facing the group.
Members of the executive management team attend and make In order to discharge these responsibilities, the Board and its presentations as appropriate at meetings of the Board.
committees meet on a regular basis throughout the year.
In 2012, the Board held 6 meetings.
Full details of the Board and committee A programme of strategic and other reviews, together with training attendance are shown in the table below.
provided during the year, ensures that the directors continually update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the groups businesses, as Board papers are generally circulated one week before the meetings.
well as their awareness of industry, risk, legal, regulatory, financial and Monthly management accounts in an agreed format are also sent to other developments to enable them to full their role effectively on the directors in a timely manner.
Board and committees of the Board.
The Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, Health and Safety and Risk In addition, the Board arranges for its Non-Executive Directors to Committees, all appropriately resourced, met a total of nineteen times visit the groups principal locations to discuss operations with local during the year.
The Board plans to visit at least one of the groups principal locations each year, where they receive a presentation and tour The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors met informally of the facility.
During the course of 2012, the Board visited the groups during the year, providing an opportunity to review the business without Czech operations, and also visited the facility in Bellshill, Scotland.
the Executive Directors being present.
The directors can obtain independent professional advice at the Board evaluation companys expense in the performance of their duties as directors, In 2012, the Board retained the Zygos Partnership to facilitate although none has done so in the period under review.
In addition, all the evaluation of its performance.
The process involved extensive directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary, who interviews with each Director and the Company Secretary which were is also responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are observed then reviewed with the Chairman.
Comments on the Chairman were and for advising the Board on Corporate Governance matters.
presented to the Senior Independent Director.
Formal feedback on the Board Review was then presented to, and discussed by, the Board in Board and committee proceedings December 2012.
The areas specically covered included the Board The Board acknowledges that it is collectively responsible for the structure, the Company Secretariat, number and locations of meetings, success of the company by providing entrepreneurial leadership, Board culture, risk and strategic analysis, all of which were considered setting the companys strategic aims, ensuring that the necessary in the context of the companys strong performance and growth since financial and human resources are in place and reviewing management 2007 and the significant opportunities and challenges facing it.
1 2 3 S J Hannam P W B Page P A J Neep J A Lodge S R Paterson S C Webb P N Withers Board 6 meetings 6 6 6 4 2 6 6 Audit Committee 4 meetings 4 3 1 4 Executive Directors Remuneration Committee 4 meetings 4 4 3 1 4 Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee 1 meeting 1 1 Nomination Committee 2 meetings 2 2 1 1 Health and Safety Committee 4 meetings 4 4 1 3 Risk Committee 4 meetings 2 4 1 Mr P A J Neep stepped down from the Health and Safety Committee on 19 April 2012.
2 Ms J A Lodge joined the Board on 1 March and the Audit and Executive Directors Remuneration Committees on 19 April 2012.
She attended all the Board and Committee meetings from the respective appointment dates.
3 Mr S R Paterson stepped down from the Board on 19 April 2012.
26 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information A number of options for developing the strength of the Board were Mr P A J Neep chaired the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee throughout 2012.
The other members of the Committee considered, and the Nomination Committee was asked to consider the recruitment of an additional Non-Executive Director.
were Mr P N Withers and Mr S J Hannam, for the full year, and Ms J A Lodge from 19 April 2012.
Mr S R Paterson was a member The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, of the Committee until he left the Board on 19 April 2012.
This conducted a formal review of the Chairmans performance, taking into Committee met four times in 2012. account the views of the Executive Directors.
Throughout 2012, the Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee was chaired by Mr P W B Page, with Mr S C Webb as the 2.
Relationship with shareholders other member.
This Committee met once in 2012.
The company communicates with institutional investors primarily though analysts briengs and meetings with major shareholders, as The Remuneration Report contains a detailed statement of the well as timely Stock Exchange announcements.
The Board, and in remuneration of each director for 2012, including details of the particular the Non-Executive Directors, are kept informed of investors companys pension policy for Executive Directors.
views in the main through distribution of analysts and brokers briengs.
The Chairman is willing to meet with shareholders to discuss The written remit of the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee matters such as strategy and governance and, as mentioned above, is available on the companys website.
the Senior Independent Director is available in the event of shareholder concerns which cannot be addressed through the usual channels.
Report from the Audit Committee Broader shareholder communication takes place through The Audit Committee has written terms of reference, which are available on the companys website, and include the responsibilities the companys website, which contains significant company announcements and other relevant information, and also through set out in Provision C. 3.2 of the Code.
the Annual Report and AGM.
All directors attend the AGM, and shareholders have the opportunity to hear presentations on the Mr S R Paterson chaired the Committee until 19 April 2012, when he stepped down from the Board.
Ms J A Lodge took over as Chair groups financial and business performance as well as to question any member of the Board on any relevant topic.
The other members of the Committee in 2012 were Mr P A J Neep and Mr P N Withers.
The Company Secretary acts as Votes at the AGM are conducted by way of a poll to ensure that the Secretary to the Committee.
votes of shareholders who are unable to attend may be taken into account.
The results are announced to the Stock Exchange.
The Board views Ms J A Lodge as the Committee member with both recent and relevant financial expertise as stipulated in Provision C. 3.1 Each substantial issue is proposed as an individual resolution of the of the Code.
The notice is sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting.
In the course of the year there were four meetings, all of which were attended by the Group Finance Director, the Chief Executive and the Group Risk and Control Manager, as invitees.
Directors remuneration auditors also attend as required.
Details of the level of remuneration received by the directors in 2012 are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 38.
The Board The Committee and the external auditors operate procedures to believes that the current levels of remuneration are sufficient to attract ensure that the auditors remain objective and independent.
These and retain the directors needed to run the company successfully, procedures include the pre-approval of the scope of the audit by the without being excessive.
Base salaries for Executive Directors are Committee.
reviewed against those paid for similar positions in comparable companies.
Professional advice from independent advisers is sought In 2012 the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external each year in this regard by the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee.
auditors,  LLP, in the course of considering the question of their reappointment.
The auditors have been in place An explanation of the companys incentive schemes, including how since the company was formed in 1991, with no formal tender process since then.
The Committee took into account that the these are linked to the companys performance and strategy, is set out in the Remuneration Report.
The provisions of Schedule A to the lead audit partner was rotating out of the role and, after a number of discussions with the proposed replacement, was content to Code are applied when incentive schemes are discussed.
The Executive Directors service contracts provide for notice periods of one year.
Due to the technical nature of the business, these Each year the Committee considers carefully the external auditors independence and objectivity, taking into account the appropriate contracts contain restrictive covenants which will be rigorously applied and, taking this into account, the Board and the Executive guidelines.
The external auditors also report annually to the Committee on the actions they have taken to comply with professional and Directors Remuneration Committee believe that the notice periods are reasonable and in the best interests of the company, having regard regulatory requirements, as well as current best practice, in order to demonstrate their independence.
There are no contractual to prevailing market conditions and current practice among public companies.
commitments restricting the Committees choice of external auditors, and the Committee will continue to periodically review their Non-Executive Directors remuneration is reviewed from time to time performance.
by the Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee, taking independent external advice as appropriate.
27 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Corporate governance report continued As part of the formal annual review of the independence of the auditors, The Committee has written terms of reference which can be found on the companys website.
the Committee also looks carefully at the level of non-audit work conducted by the auditors and the detailed safeguards which they have in place.
The Committee is satisfied that there is no risk to the objectivity The Committee convened four times in 2012 and on each occasion and independence of the external audit arising from the level of nonmet either by video or in person with representatives of the Safety audit fees.
The fees paid to external auditors in 2012 are set out in note Committee of one of the groups main manufacturing facilities.
The 9 to the financial statements on page 54.
Almost all of the non-audit safety performance of the group is reviewed at each meeting, and the fees relate to tax and pension advice.
The Committee believes that Committee receives and reviews reports on all serious safety incidents.
there are sound commercial and practical reasons for this work being The Committee also reviewed and endorsed the safety plans for each conducted by the auditors.
of the main sites at the beginning of the year.
The companys whistleblowing procedures are also reviewed annually, 7.
Financial reporting with the Committee concluding that the arrangements in place would The Board acknowledges its responsibility to present a balanced and result in proportionate and independent investigation of such matters.
understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects.
Each Annual Report contains a Chairmans statement and a Business 5.
Report from the Nomination Committee review.
The Interim Report also contains a statement by the Chairman.
The members of the Committee during the year were Mr S J Hannam, The Board believes that this additional narrative sets the accounts in Mr S R Paterson until 19 April 2012, Ms J A Lodge from 19 April context and promotes a better understanding of the current status of 2012, and Mr P A J Neep.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary the business and its outlook.
To ensure consistency of reporting, the group has an established The Committee has written terms of reference which can be found consolidation process as well as formal financial and operational on the companys website.
These include the regular review of the procedures manuals.
Management monitors the publication of new structure, size and composition of the Board.
reporting standards and works closely with the external auditors in evaluating the impact of these standards.
During 2012, the Committee met on two occasions.
Internal control and risk The question of succession planning for senior management below An ongoing process is in place to identify, evaluate and manage the Board level is primarily the responsibility of the Chief Executive.
significant risks the group faces, which accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
A Risk Committee was formed in 2010, comprising the In the course of the year under review, one Board appointment was Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Committee, made.
Ms J A Lodge was identied after a formal process using as listed on pages 18 and 19.
This Committee meets four times a year independent consultants.
Her background as a senior audit partner and is charged with reviewing risk throughout the group.
As part of the with Deloitte, with twenty five years of experience advising global process, the Group Risk and Control Manager has responsibility for the manufacturing companies, made her a strong candidate for the application of risk assessment procedures, including an assessment of position, with the necessary recent and relevant financial experience to non-financial risks across the group.
Each group operating company handle the Audit Committee role when Mr S R Paterson stepped down.
prepares a risk assessment for its business.
This involves each company preparing a report identifying the relevant risks to both current Following a review of the Davies Report by the Board in the course operations and future strategy, the process for managing and mitigating of 2011, the Committee will continue to facilitate the candidature of these risks and the means by which management might be assured women for Board appointments and recruitment consultants will be that the processes are effective.
A similar exercise is also conducted at instructed to ensure that a significant proportion of any long list put group level, taking account of any significant risks identied by each of forward should be women.
The risk assessment reports are collated and considered by the Risk Committee, and then the Audit Subsequent to the Board review in December 2012, the Committee Committee, before being reviewed and nalised by the Board.
The was asked by the Board to consider the recruitment of another Board also selects a number of key risks for in-depth review by the Risk Non-Executive Director, and this process is underway.
Committee in the course of the following year.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business 6.
Report from the Health and Safety Committee objectives.
The principal risks and uncertainties identied as part of This Committee was formed in 2009, reecting the Boards focus on the group risk assessment process, and how they are managed or health and safety matters.
mitigated, are summarised on pages 16 and 17.
The members of the Committee during the year were Mr S J Hannam, The Board of Directors, being ultimately responsible for the groups Mr P W B Page, Mr P N Withers and Dr M H Cooke, the Group system of internal control, has established an internal financial control Strategic Development Director.
Mr P A J Neep was a member of the structure which is designed to provide the Board with reasonable, but Committee until 19 April 2012.
Mr S J Hannam chaired the Committee not absolute, assurance that it can rely on the accuracy and reliability until 19 April 2012 when Mr P N Withers took over.
28 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information The structure, which is based on an assessment of material financial 9.
Going concern The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect risks, can be described under the following headings: its future performance, are set out in the Business Review on pages 5 to 9.
Details of the groups exposure to credit, interest rate, foreign s &INANCIAL REPORTING There is a budgeting system in place which includes an annual exchange and liquidity risks are outlined in note 23 to the financial budget approved by the Board.
Monthly actual results are reported statements.
Revised forecasts for the year are prepared regularly.
The company reports formally to shareholders twice a In their consideration of the companys ability to continue as a going year, with two additional Interim Management Statements.
concern, the directors have reviewed the groups future cash ow forecasts and associated risks.
s PERATING CONTROLS Financial and operational policies and procedures are set out The Board considers the groups net debt of 26.1 million as at in formal procedures manuals which are held by all Business 31 December 2012 to be manageable, when compared to its net Directors and finance staff.
The latter are responsible for ensuring profit of 33.1 million.
that all relevant staff are familiar with their content and application.
All Board members, Business Directors and senior finance staff Accordingly, after making enquiries and considering the question have been issued with Internal Control Guidelines.
carefully, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in s Treasury operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they Formal written treasury procedures are in operation, covering continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial banking arrangements, hedging instruments, investment of cash statements.
Individual staff responsibilities and levels of delegated authority in relation to treasury matters are 10.
The Takeover Directive disclosures regarding the companys share capital structure are included in the share capital section of the s NTERNAL AUDIT directors report on page 23 of this report.
The company has an internal audit function, which has a reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and also direct 11.
Statement on compliance access to the Chairman of the Board.
The Group Risk and Control This statement, together with the Remuneration report set out on Manager, who is responsible for internal audit, normally attends pages 30 to 38, describes how, in respect of the year ended 31 Audit Committee meetings and makes a formal report to the December 2012, the company has applied the provisions and Committee annually.
principles of corporate governance as set out in the Code.
The company has complied with all the Codes provisions throughout the s #APITAL INVESTMENT APPRAISAL period in question, with one exception.
The companys Remuneration The company has clearly dened guidelines for the approval Committee structure does not fully comply with Provision D. 2.2, as the and review of capital expenditure projects, which include annual remuneration of the Chairman is set by the Non-Executive Directors budgets and designated levels of authority.
Remuneration Committee comprising the executive directors, instead of by a committee of Non-Executive Directors, as proposed s NTEGRITY OF PERSONNEL by the Code.
The companys two-committee approach, which is The company has a Policy on Business Conduct which sets out more fully described and explained in the Remuneration Report, is specic requirements for all staff to meet the companys standards designed to ensure that no director is involved in setting his or her of conduct and integrity in their business dealings.
On-line training, own remuneration, thus avoiding any potential conict of interest, covering compliance with the Bribery Act and competition laws, is while ensuring that the experience of the Chairman is available to the provided for all relevant employees across the group.
The Board believes that this arrangement is an appropriate and effective use of the The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal available resources and is fully aligned with the spirit of the Code.
control and considers that the group has an established system of internal control which the directors believe to be appropriate to the business.
29 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
