28 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Directors Governance and and Corporate Governance accountability report Committees and these are documented through Membership of the Board UK Corporate Governance Code the relevant committee terms of reference.
The In 2012 the Board consisted of a Chairman, The main corporate governance rules that matters reserved for Board decision and the twoExecutive Directors and three Non-Executive applyto the Group for the year ended committees terms of reference are reviewed Directors.
Following Harry Tee CBEs retirement 31December 2012 are contained in the onan annual basis.
These are available on inSeptember 2012 this reduced the number UKCorporate Governance Code Code ofNon-Executive Directors to two as Bill Ronald theCompanys website at www.
com aspublished and updated by the FRC in June 2010 was appointed as Chairman.
The balance orfrom theCompany Secretary at Exning Road, and the UK Financial Services Authority FSA hasonce again changed in 2013 with the Newmarket, Suffolk, CB8 0AX Registered Ofce.
These require Dialight todescribe, successful appointment of two additional in its annual report, its corporate governance The Board delegates authority, within clearly Non-Executive Directors.
from two points of view: the first dealing dened limits, to the Group Chief Executive and generally with the application ofthe Codes theGroup Finance Director the Executive for mainprinciples and the second dealing acquisitions, investments, capital expenditure specically with non-compliance with any andother major contracts committing the 2012 oftheCodes provisions.
It is the view of the Groupsexpenditures or other such liabilities.
Board that Dialight has been compliant with TheExecutive, in turn, may further delegate this theprovisions ofthe Code throughout the year authority to senior management or Directors ended 31December 2012.
This statement, ofGroup subsidiary companies.
Levels of together withthe Remuneration report, explains authoritydelegated to the Executive and how Dialight has applied the main principles and seniormanagement and Directors of Group complied withthe provisions of the Code during subsidiaries are reviewed from time to time.
The Board held seven scheduled meetings during 2012 including a three-day annual Leadership strategy and planning meeting hosted in theUK.
The role of the Board They also met on a number of other occasions 2013 The Board is accountable to the Groups asthe situation and circumstances required.
stakeholders, including its shareholders, for the Further details of Directors attendance at standards of governance operated throughout allscheduled meetings of the Board and its the Group.
It is committed to high standards Committees can be found in the table on throughout all of the Groups operating locations.
Attendance details in respect of Stephen Bird and Tracey Graham do not The Board has adopted a formal schedule appear as both were appointed following ofmatters that are specically reserved for theend of theyear on10January 2013 and, itsdecision including, the approval of annual neither were invited to or attended any meetings andinterim results: recommendation of during 2012.
There are eight Board meetings dividends: approval of annual budgets: review scheduled totake place in 2013. ofGroup strategic plans: approval of larger capital expenditure and investment proposals: Division of responsibilities review of the overall system of internal control There are clearly established roles for the and risk management: and, the review Chairman Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
documented role statements are available Executive Directors  are delegated to onthe Companys website or from the Non-Executive Directors theAudit, Nominations and Remuneration Registered Ofce.
com Governance Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 29 Governance Read our committees terms of reference online www.
com The Group Chief Executive has delegated Board agendas are prepared by the Chairman Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until responsibility for the management of the inconjunction with the Group Chief Executive additional Directors were appointed.
Stephen Bird Groups day-to-day operations to senior and the Company Secretary.
At each meeting and Tracey Graham became Senior Independent management.
In addition he is responsible for the Board is provided with regular and timely Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee, the preparation and presentation of strategic information on the financial performance of respectively, with effect from 21 February 2013, options for the Groups growth in shareholder businesses within the Group, and of the Group atwhich point Robert Lambourne relinquished value and sets the operating plans and budgets as a whole, together with reports on trading, these additional responsibilities.
required to deliver the agreed strategy.
He is health and safety, performance, markets and All Non-Executive Directors constructively also responsible for ensuring thatthe Group other relevant issues.
Board and committee challenge the Board and assist in developing maintains appropriate risk management and papers are distributed to Directors in advance the strategy of the Group and scrutinise the control mechanisms.
ofBoard andcommittee meetings to facilitate performance of management against the informed debate at the meeting.
The Chairman Groups objectives and strategy.
The Chairman In addition to other matters, the Chairman has The Non-Executive Directors holds meetings with the Non-Executive responsibility for the leadership of the Board, Following the appointment of Stephen Bird Directors without the Executive Directors ensuring the effectiveness of the Board, andTracey Graham on 10 January 2013, present on a range of matters whilst the organising and planning Board meetings theBoardnow comprises four independent SeniorIndependent Director does the same andthe effective and timely communication Non-Executive Directors, the remaining two  Directors as part of ofinformation to shareholders.
The Chairman beingRobert Lambourne and Richard Stuckes.
theChairmans annual performance appraisal provides advice, counsel and support to Following BillRonalds appointment as aswell as on such other occasions as required.
theGroup Chief Executive as and when required GroupChairman on 12September 2012, and maintains open and continual contact with RobertLambourne took on BillRonalds theNon-Executive Directors to allow any issues  and became Acting tobe addressed outside of the formal scope Senior Independent Director and Acting ofthe regular Board meetings.
Number of meetings attended 1 Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee 2 3 Bill Ronald 7 7 4 4 4 4 5 10 4 Roy Burton 7 7 n a n a 10 10 4 Mark Fryer 7 7 n a n a n a Robert Lambourne 7 7 4 4 4 4 10 10 Richard Stuckes 7 7 4 4 4 4 9 10 1 There were a large number of Nominations Committee meetings during 2012 to consider both the succession to HarryTeeCBE as Chairman and the search process for two additional Non-Executive Directors.
2 Bill Ronald was appointed Group Chairman on 12 September 2012.
3 Bill Ronald was not invited and did not attend those Nominations Committee meetings regarding the search fora successor to Harry Tee CBE although he did attend all of those for which he received an invitation.
4 Neither Roy Burton or Mark Fryer are members of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and attend meetings by invitation only.
com 30 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Directors and Corporate Governance report Board effectiveness, continued composition and appointments confirmed that each Non-Executive Director Effectiveness The composition of the Board continues to demonstrate that he has sufficient Composition of the Board demonstrates a range of time to devote to the Companys business.
In addition to the Non-Executive Directors, experience that brings theBoard also includes three further Directors: Each Non-Executive Directors knowledge and independent judgement to the Chairman: the Group Chief Executive: understanding of the Group is enhanced by visits andthe Group Finance Director.
to Group facilities and through presentations from issues of strategy, performance, members of senior management.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are resources and standards of considered to be independent in accordance No individuals apart from the Committee conduct which are vital to the with the Code and it is thought that the current Chairmen and Committee members are allowed future success of the Group.
balance on the Board ensures that noindividual to be present at Committee meetings although or group dominates the Boards decision other individuals, including the Chairman, Group making process.
The Non-Executive Directors Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group are independent of management and are free HR Director and external auditors, may attend from any relationship which could affect the meetings at the prior invitation of the relevant exercise of their independent judgement and Committee Chairman.
therefore meet the criteria set out in the Code.
Their Appointments to the Board biographies appear on pages 26 and 27.
These The Board has established a Nominations demonstrate a range of experience that brings Committee to lead the process for all Board independent judgement to issues of strategy, appointments, making recommendations where performance, resources and standards of required.
Membership details of the Committee conduct which are vital to the future success can be found in the table below.
The Board has considered and Group structure and Committee membership The Board Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Members Members Members Robert Lambourne Chairman Bill Ronald Chairman Tracey Graham Chairman Stephen Bird Stephen Bird Stephen Bird Tracey Graham Robert Lambourne Roy Burton Richard Stuckes Bill Ronald Tracey Graham Richard Stuckes Robert Lambourne Richard Stuckes Stephen Bird and Tracey Grahams appointments to these Committees became effective from 21 February 2013.
Neither were members during the year under review.
com Governance Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 31 Governance With the exception of Harry Tee CBE who retired Development Evaluation on 12 September 2012, all members served All new Directors receive a full and formal Evaluation of the Board and its Committees is throughout the year and, with the exception induction programme on joining the Board.
by way of responses to a questionnaire issued ofRoy Burton, are considered independent Thisincludes the provision of information on to all members of the Board.
Feedback from pursuant to the Code.
theGroup, its products and markets, financial these questionnaires is then gathered and information and general advice on Directors collated by the Company Secretary for The Nominations Committee is responsible for duties under the Companies Act 2006 and presentation to the Board in order to facilitate reviewing the size, structure and composition theUK Listing Rules.
Visits to Group locations discussion.
The Chairman is responsible for ofthe Board, making recommendations also form part of the process as do meetings conducting the performance evaluation of the wherenecessary, giving consideration to the with key senior management.
The Non-Executive provision of adequate succession planning for Directors, ledby the Senior Independent Senior Executives and Directors and making Further training needs are provided as required Director, are responsible for evaluating the recommendations regarding re-election and following discussion between individual performance of the Chairman and the Group re-appointment of Directors should this be Directors and the Chairman.
Any resources Chief Executive conducts evaluations of required.
In appropriate cases, recruitment required in this respect are provided by theother Executive Directors andsenior consultants are engaged to assist with any theCompany.
The Board will look toconduct recruitment process.
During the year the Information and support anexternal evaluation for 2013.
Committee led the process to appoint a new The Company Secretary, in accordance with Group Chairman in advance of Harry Tee CBEs The questionnaire issued to Board members guidance from the Chairman, takes the lead retirement as well as the search for two covers a range of topics including the Boards onensuring that the Board and its Committees additional Non-Executive Directors to join the remit, its objectives and its procedures and receive the necessary information that they Board.
Harry Tee CBE did not attend any administration.
The findings from the results require to operate efficiently.
All Directors meetings concerning the succession to the ofthisexercise were submitted to the Board haveaccess to the advice and services of Group Chairman role as required pursuant inFebruary 2013.
A number of issues were theCompany Secretary, who is responsible to tothe Code.
Bill Ronald, having been put identied and appropriate actions agreed theBoard for ensuring that Board procedures forward as a candidate did not attend any forthefuture, forexample the need for an arefollowed and that applicable rules and Committee meetings regarding this issue either.
externalBoard evaluation in 2013. regulations are complied with.
The Company Commitment Secretary is also responsible for advising the Re-election Service contracts of the Executive Directors Board, through the Chairman, on all matters The Companys Articles of Association andthe terms and conditions of appointment ofgovernance and best practice.
In addition, Articles and the Companies Act 2006 ofthe Non-Executive Directors are available for the Company Secretary ensures that the governthe appointment and re-appointment inspection at the Companys Registered Ofce Directors receive appropriate training as ofdirectors.
However, the Board has decided during normal business hours on any weekday necessary.
Directors may take independent toadopt provision B.
7.1 ofthe Code so that except Bank Holidays and at the Annual professional advice on any matter at the allDirectors will standforre-election on an General Meeting AGM.
Furtherdetails of Companys expense if they deem it necessary annualbasis.
Anamendment to the Articles these can be found in the Remuneration report inorder to carry out their responsibilities effectively.
isproposed atthe forthcoming AGM to on pages 42 to 49.
Nosuch advice was taken during the year.
com 32 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Directors and Corporate Governance report Accountability continued and auditors The following controls are in place which enable the Board Effectiveness continued toreviewthe effectiveness of its systems of internal control: Financial and business reporting The basis on which the Company generates Management structure and preserves value over the longer term and The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a formal the strategy for delivering the objectives of schedule of matters specically reserved for decision by the Board.
theCompany can be found in the Business EachExecutive Director has been given responsibility for specic aspects model, in the Performance review section of theGroups affairs.
The Executive Directors also meet regularly with onpages 10 to 11. seniormanagement of the operating businesses on a range of issues.
Risk management and Risk assessment internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Risk registers are produced by the regions and centrally by Dialight plc, Groups system of internal control and risk on a quarterly basis.
Completed registers are then considered and management and for reviewing its effectiveness reviewed by the Governance and Risk Committee comprising the on an annual basis.
Such systems can only GroupChief Executive and Group Finance Director and representatives bedesigned to manage, and not eliminate, from the business, where required.
This results in the production of what theriskof failure to achieve business objectives.
are considered tobe the Groups principal risks for presentation to the Theycan provide reasonable, but not absolute, Boardfor consideration and approval.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The registers classify risks as strategic, macro-economic, operational, financial and organisational or health and safety compliance risks and include information on the risk, its likely consequences, an assessment ofthe risks impact, an assessment of the risks likelihood, details of the controls to mitigate risks, a rating of the existing controls and detailsof the owner of each risk.
Health and safety issues are also considered and reviewed by the Group Health and Safety Committee comprising the Company Secretary, the Group Health and Safety officer and various nominated health and safety individuals from each site worldwide.
This Committee was established toprovide oversight, challenge and support implementation of the Groups Health and Safety Policy and to ensure Group wide compliance with obligations to provide a safe working environment for all staff.
Code of Business Conduct and supporting policies In 2011, the Board approved the Code of Business Conduct CBC, which setout thestandards for what Dialight believe constitute acceptable behaviour for all employees as well as the Groups dealings with shareholders, customers, suppliers and agents and its impact on the environment and the community.
The CBC is underpinned by a number of supporting policies.
Both the CBC and the supporting policies contain provisions that cover implementation, compliance and monitoring toensure consistency of application throughout the Group.
The Governance and Risk Committee is responsible for monitoring and reporting on theGroups compliance with the CBC and supporting policies to the Audit Committee.
com Governance Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 33 Governance The Manual Audit Committee The Audit Committee monitors, through reports to it by the Group Finance The existing Group Policies and Procedures Manual includes detail concerning delegation ofauthority and authorisation levels, segregation Director, the controls that are in force and any perceived gaps in the control environment.
The Audit Committee also considers and determines of duties and other control procedures together with accounting policies and procedures.
relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by these reports or the external auditors, as well as considering issues raised in accordance Quality and integrity of personnel with the Groups Condential Disclosure Policy.
The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through Internal audit highrecruitment standards and ongoing development and training.
The Group Finance Director has instigated a series of peer group financial High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment.
Ethical standards the Company expects from its staff are control reviews during 2012 following the successful use of these in 2011.
The Audit Committee agrees the annual scope of these reviews in also communicated through the CBC and relevant supporting policies.
advance and this scope may be revised from time to time according Financial information tochanging business requirements and circumstances.
Reporting ofthendings ofthese assessments is initially to executive management There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting toseek response and corrective actions which are then reported to the system.
Each year the Board approves the annual budget and updated AuditCommittee.
This process has been supplemented with further business strategic plan.
Key risk areas are identied and reported to the testingin 2012 including a detailed review of security systems by Board.
Performance is monitored on a monthly basis against budget specialistexternal consultants.
and the prior year and relevant actions identied.
For 2013 the same peer group internal audit approach will be adopted, The business produces detailed five-year strategy and one-year supplemented by additional specialist external assessments of business plans.
Plans will include consideration of the financial theGroups financial systems and controls.
Thescope of these projections and the evaluation of business alternatives.
Business assessments has been agreed by the Audit Committee in advance.
plansare presented by each management team to the Board as partofthe strategic review meeting.
Insurance The Board receives and reviews monthly management accounts The Group maintains insurance cover to insure all major risk areas based together with full year forecasts which are updated monthly.
on the scale of the risk and availability of cover in the external market.
Performance against forecast and budget isclosely monitored.
The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director submit Legal and compliance papers totheBoard ona monthly basis that focus on key developments, Reports are presented to the Board on any material legal or compliance performance and issues inthebusinesses.
issues that may impact the Group.
Investment appraisal Compliance with controls Capital expenditure and research and development projects are A process of control risk self-assessment is used in the Group where regulated by budgetary process and authorisation levels set out in senior managers are required to detail and certify controls in operation theManual.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written toensure the control environment in their business area is appropriate.
proposals have to be submitted to the Board for approval.
Reviews They also confirm monthly, in writing, that risk management processes arecarried out after the acquisition is complete and, for some projects and appropriate controls are in place and are operating effectively.
during the acquisition period, to monitor expenditure: major overruns The Board confirms that it has conducted areview of the system are investigated.
Due diligence work iscarried out if a business is to ofinternal controls in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012 beacquired.
covering all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
com 34 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Directors and Corporate Governance report continued Audit Committee Remuneration andAuditors Committee Membership details of the Audit Committee The Committee has oversight of the internal Details of the role and activities of the canbe found on page 30.
With the exception audit process.
Remuneration Committee during the year can ofBill Ronald, whose membership ceased befound in the Directors remuneration report on The Committee considers the cost-effectiveness, uponhis appointment as Group Chairman pages 42 to 49.
Membership information can independence and objectivity of KPMG Audit Plc on12September 2012, Stephen Bird and befound on page 30.
Robert Lambourne was Auditors or KPMG, the external auditors, Tracey Graham, who were appointed on appointed Acting Chairman of the Committee ona regular basis, agrees their level of 10January 2013, all members of the Committee following Bill Ronalds appointment as Group remuneration, and reviews the extent of served throughout the year and areconsidered Chairman on 12 September 2012 until the non-audit services provided by KPMG during independent pursuant to the Code.
The Board appointment of a new chair in February 2013. theyear.
The Auditors bi-annually confirm their considers that the Committee Chairman has BillRonald continues to be a member of the policies to ensure independence and provide recent and relevant financial experience and Committee ashe was considered independent theCommittee with a report on their own anunderstanding of accounting and financial onhis appointment as Chairman pursuant internal quality control procedures.
issues relevant to theindustries inwhich the toprovisionD.
Committee meetings are attended by the Full Remuneration report Auditors at the invitation of the Committee The Committee is responsible for reviewing p42 Chairman to ensure full communication of awide range of matters including the half year matters relating to the audit.
The Committee and annual accounts before their submission also meets with the Auditors without the tothe Board for approval and monitoring the Executive Directors present to discuss the controls that are in force to ensure the integrity adequacy of controls and any material of the information reported to the shareholders.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and responsibilities Prior approval of the provision of any non-audit of external auditors and on their remuneration services must be provided by the Group Finance both for audit and non-audit work and Director, although assignments with proposed discusses the nature, scope and results fees over 20,000 require the approval of the oftheaudit with external auditors.
This serves to ensure that independence is maintained and other The Committee monitors risk management potential providers ofthe service under discussion andinternal control processes as part of its have also been adequately considered.
responsibilities and reviews reports on the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management.
The Committee also monitors the integrity of internal financial controls and it will assess the scope and the effectiveness of the established systems to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and non-financial risks.
com Governance Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 35 Governance Shareholder relations are a Board priority allmembers of the Board are offered Relations with shareholders Other statutory invitationsto attend all presentations Dialogue with shareholders andmeetings with shareholders.
Communications with shareholders are information givenhigh priority.
The Chairman has overall Constructive use of the AGM responsibility for ensuring that there is effective The AGM presents anadditional opportunity Principal activities communication with investors including being tocommunicate with private and institutional Dialight plc the Company is the holding aware of the views of major shareholders on investors.
The Chairman aims to ensure that company of the Dialight Group of Companies, matters such as corporate governance.
theChairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and the world leaderin applied LED technology.
The Nominations Committees are available at these Groups operations comprise three segments: On a day-to-day basis the Boards primary meetings to answer questions.
Each substantially Lighting: Signals: andComponents.
Details contact with major shareholders is via the Group separate issue is proposed as a separate ofeach segments operations can be found Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, resolution.
Details of resolutions to be proposed inthePerformance Review on pages 7 to 9. who have regular dialogue with individual at the AGM on 25 April 2013 can be found in institutional shareholders and deliver Business review and managementreport theseparate circular to shareholders.
The Notice presentations to analysts after the full and The Board is required to present a fair view of ofthe AGM and related documents are sent to halfyear results.
Copies of the shareholder thebusiness performance of the Group during shareholders at least 20 working days before presentations are made available on the thenancial year ended 31 December 2012, thedate of the meeting.
adescription of the principal risks and uncertainties Substantial shareholdings facing the Group and the future developments The Non-Executive Directors are kept appraised As at 7 March 2013 the Company had received ofthe business.
The information that satisfies the of shareholder views through the provision of the following notications pursuant toDTR 5 requirements of the Companies Act 2006 can areport at each Board meeting on shareholder ofthe Disclosure and Transparency Rules befound in the Overview, Performance review activity.
In addition to updates on share price oftheFinancial Services Authority.
andSustainability report sections on pages and trading activity, this could include the 1to25 and 39 to 41.
Each is incorporated by consideration of recent analyst briengs and reference into, and forms part of, this Directors feedback from results road shows.
In addition and Corporate Governance report.
5 2 alsorequires the Annual Report to include a management report.
The information that fulls % of issued share this requirement can be found in the Overview Number of capital and Performance review sections on pages Shareholder voting rights voting rights 1to25 and this Directors and Corporate Generation Investment Management LLP 3,209,284 10.09 Governance report on pages 28 to 38.
BlackRock Inc. 3,168,908 9.86 Standard Life Investments Ltd 2,759,830 8.58 Impax Asset Management Ltd 1,538,820 4.87 1 BlackRock UK Special Situations Fund 1,300,855 4.05 Legal and General Group plc 1,207,443 3.82 The Tee family 1,015,128 3.16 1 Note that this holding also forms part of the larger holding of BlackRock Inc, butwas notied in its own right.
com 36 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Directors and Corporate Governance report Communication with continued employees is key appointed following the end of the year can which will expire on 30 April 2013.
A resolution Other statutory befound on pages 26 and 27, together with torenew this authority will be put to briefbiographical details for each.
Stephen Bird shareholders at the AGM on 25 April 2013. information continued and Tracey Graham joined the Board on Political and charitable contributions 10January 2013.
Results and dividends During the year the Group made contributions Results for the year are set out in the consolidated The interests of the Directors and their families of 1,229 2011: 1,270 to various charities.
The Board in the share capital of the Company as well Itis Group policy that no donations are made recommends a final dividend of 9.5 pence per asdetails of the Directors remuneration nor expenditure incurred for political purposes share, making a total dividend for the year of andservice contracts can be found in the andas a result there were no such political 13.5pence per share 2011: 10.0 pence per Remuneration report on pages 42 to 49. donations or expenditure made or incurred share.
Subject totheapproval of shareholders Noneofthe Directors had or has an interest in any during the year 2011: nil.
atthe 2013 AGM, thenal dividend will be paid material contract relating to the business of the Employees Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
on8 May 2013 toshareholders on the register Regular communication with employees is key atthe close ofbusiness on 12 April 2013.
The Company has arrangements in place to to ensuring that there is clarity which allows all Acquisitions and investments consider and deal with Directors conicts of to understand their role in improving the Groups On 7 June 2012 Dialight announced the interest.
Anannual review is undertaken, facilitated business performance.
Regular meetings acquisition of the trade and assets of Airinet, by the Company Secretary, with all identied areheld by management teams to discuss alighting controls company based in Pueblo, conicts recorded on a register that is adopted performance and strategy.
All are encouraged Colorado inAmerica.
was US $2.6m with additional sums being Directors indemnities and insurance Employment policies are designed to attract, payable on future revenue though to 2020 During the year the Company maintained liability retain and motivate the best people.
Completion took place insurance and third party qualifying indemnity cover performance management, employee on1August 2012. provisions pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 development, succession planning and for its Directors and ofcers.
recruitment, as well as including guidelines The Group acquired a lease commencing on1July 2012 for a manufacturing facility onstaff appraisals and consultations between Financial instruments individuals and local management.
The facility began The financial risk management objectives and manufacturing in September 2012.
Dialight anddevelopment is undertaken locally but all policies of the Group including interest rate, employees are given equal opportunities to Penang Sdn Bhd, a wholly owned subsidiary, currency and credit risk are outlined in note 23 was established to facilitate this growth in develop their experience and their careers.
tothe Groups consolidated financial statements.
The Group gives full and fair consideration AGM On 29 August 2012 the Group announced toapplications for employment from disabled The Companys AGM will take place at theestablishment of Dialight Asia, a joint venture persons where the requirements of the job can 11.30am on 25 April 2013 at Glaziers Hall, with Lumina Holdings Systems Limited in be adequately fullled by a disabled person.
9Montague Close, London Bridge, London Singapore.
Dialight Asia will be responsible Employees who become disabled are provided, SE19DD.
An explanation of the business forthe promotion and saleof lighting products where practicable, with continuing employment tobetransacted at the AGM can be found in South East Asia.
Thetransaction completed under normal terms and conditions and are intheseparate circular to shareholders.
on 31 August 2012. provided with training and career development At the 2012 AGM shareholders granted the wherever appropriate.
Directors and interests Directors the authority to purchase up to The names of those Directors that served 3,180,023 ordinary shares in the Company, ontheBoard during 2012 and that have been www.
com Governance Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 37 Governance Find out more online at www.
com Research and development may only beamended by aspecial resolution thevoting rights over the shares held in the ESOT The Group continues to invest resources ofthe Company at a general meeting.
No one andmay exercise these rights independent of the engaged in technology and product development person has any special rights of control over the interests of the Company.
in America, Denmark, Germany and the UK Companys share capital and all shares are fully Going concern andto update and expand its product range.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one The Directors have reasonable expectations, Investment in this area is essential for the Group vote at general meetings of the Company.
There aftermaking appropriate enquiries, that the to retain and increase its market share in its are no specic restrictions on the transfer of the Group has adequate resources to continue competitive markets.
Where appropriate Companys shares, although the Articles contain inoperation for the foreseeable future.
For intellectual property applications are made provisions whereby Directors may refuse to thisreason they continue to adopt the going inrelevant jurisdictions, the Group acts on register a transfer of a certicated share which concernbasis in preparing the annual report anysuspected infringements of our intellectual isnot fully paid.
Subject to statutory provisions, andaccounts.
property and the use of condentiality agreements the rights attached to a class of shares may be are encouraged when dealing with third parties.
varied whether or not the Company is being Disclosure of information totheauditors wound up in accordance withthe Articles.
The Directors who held ofce at the date of Payments to suppliers approval of this Directors report confirm that, Terms of payment are agreed with individual Directors sofar as they are each aware, there is no relevant suppliers prior to supply.
It is the Groups policy The Directors are responsible for the audit information of which the Companys auditors to settle with its suppliers as payments fall due, management of the business of the Company are unaware and each Director has taken all the provided the supplier has delivered the goods and may exercise all powers of the Company steps that he ought to have taken as a Director and services in accordance with agreed subject to applicable legislation and regulation tomake himself aware of any relevant audit termsand conditions.
As the Company is a and the Articles and any special resolution of the information and to establish that the Companys non-trading holding company it has no trade Company passed at a general meeting.
The auditors are aware of that information.
At 31 December 2012, the Group Directors have the power to issue and buy back hadan average of 81 days 2011: 47 days shares in the Company, as well as to grant Auditors purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
options over or otherwise dispose of unissued Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as shares in the Company, to such persons, atsuch auditors to the Company and to authorise the Share capital and structure times and on such terms as they think proper.
Board to determine the Auditors remuneration As at 31 December 2012 the Company will be proposed at the 2013 AGM.
had32,150,231 fully paid ordinary shares of The Directors are not aware of there being any 1.89 pence each in issue which are listed on significant agreements that contain any material By order of the Board.
The Company has change of control provisions to which the Company asingle class of shares.
No shares have been is a party.
The rules of the Performance Share Plan Nick Giles issued that carry any special rights with regard provide that, in the event of a change of control Company Secretary to the control of the Company.
Full details of the through a general offeror scheme of arrangement, 7 March 2013 Companys share capital are given in note 35 shares subject toawards under the Performance Registered office tothe accounts.
During the year the Company Share Plan could be released within one month Dialight plc issued 350,000 ordinary shares to satisfy ofthe date of notication of the likely change Exning Road existing awards pursuant to the Companys ofcontrol.
The Company has established the Newmarket Performance Share Plan and Annual Dialight Employees Share Ownership Plan Trust Suffolk CB8 0AX Performance Bonus Plan.
ESOT in which all employees of the Group, Company number 2486024 including Executive Directors, are potential The rights and obligations attached to the beneciaries.
The ESOT currently holds 47,596 Companys shares are contained in the 2011: 39,216 ordinary shares in the capital of Companys Articles, acopy of which can be theCompany.
The Trustees of the ESOT retain obtained from the Registered Ofce.
com 38 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Directors and Corporate Governance report continued - for the parent company financial statements, Responsibility statement of the Other statutory state whether applicable UK Accounting Directors inrespect of the annual Standards have been followed, subject to any financial report information continued material departures disclosed and explained We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: inthe parent company financial statements: and Directors responsibility statement - the financial statements, prepared in The Directors are responsible forpreparing - prepare the financial statements on the going accordance with the applicable set of theannual report and the Group and parent concern basis unless it is inappropriate to accounting standards, give a true and fair company financial statements in accordance presume that the Group and the parent view of the assets, liabilities, financial position with applicable law and regulations.
company will continue in business.
and profit or loss of theCompany and the undertakings included in the consolidation Company law requires the Directorsto prepare The Directors are responsible for keeping taken as a whole: and Group andparent company financial statements adequate accounting records that are sufficient for each financial year.
Under that law they are to show and explain the parent companys - the Directors and Corporate Governance report required toprepare the Group financial statements transactions and disclose with reasonable includes a fair review ofthedevelopment and in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU accuracy at any time the financial position of performance of the business and the position and applicable law and have elected toprepare theparent company and enable them to ensure ofthe issuer and the undertakings included in the the parent company financial statements in that its financial statements comply with the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a accordance with UK Accounting Standards Companies Act 2006.
They have general description of the principal risks and uncertainties andapplicable law UK Generally Accepted responsibility for taking such steps as are that they face.
reasonably open to them to safeguard the For and on behalf of the Board of Dialight plc assets ofthe Group and to prevent and Under company law the Directors must not detectfraud and other irregularities.
approve the financial statements unless they Roy Burton aresatised that they give a true and fair view of the Under applicable law and regulations, the Group Chief Executive state of affairs of the Group and parent company Directors are also responsible for preparing a and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing Directors report, Directors remuneration report Mark Fryer each of the Group and parent company financial and Corporate governance statement that Group Finance Director statements, the Directors are required to: complies with that law and those regulations.
7 March 2013 - select suitable accounting policies and then The Directors are responsible for the maintenance apply them consistently: and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
- make judgements and estimates that are Legislation in the UK governing the preparation reasonable andprudent: and dissemination of financial statements may - for the Group financial statements, state whether differ from legislation inother jurisdictions.
they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: www.
