Our business Governance Financial statements Other information Directors statement on corporate governance for the 52 week period ended 28 December 2012 Introduction This statement explains how Dignity has incorporated the requirements of The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code.
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance in order to achieve its objectives and meet the necessary standards of accountability and integrity.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, Dignity plc is required to state whether it has complied with the relevant provisions set out in the Code and, where the provisions have not been complied with, to provide an explanation.
Dignity plc is also required to explain how it has applied the principles set out in the Code.
This Directors Statement on Corporate Governance and the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 34 to 44 provide a description of how the main and supporting principles of the Code have been applied within Dignity plc during 2012.
The Group has complied with all provisions of the Code throughout the 2012 accounting period.
Narrative statement The Code establishes principles of good governance, which are split into four areas as outlined below: 1.
The Board and its effectiveness The Group is controlled through the Board of Directors that meets regularly throughout the year.
Informal meetings are held between individual Directors as required.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved to it.
The Board is responsible for the long term success of the Group which includes: Overall management of the Group: Setting and reviewing the strategy of the Group: Approval of major capital expenditure and acquisition projects, and consideration of significant financial matters: Monitoring the exposure to key business risks: Setting annual budgets and reviewing progress towards achievement of these budgets: and Proposing and making dividend payments to shareholders.
The management of the Group on a day to day basis is delegated, via the Executive Directors, to an experienced senior and middle management team whose size and structure is commensurate with the complexity of the Groups activities.
Managers have the necessary skills and knowledge relevant to their areas of responsibility.
The remainder of the responsibilities vest with the Board except capital expenditures, acquisition projects and significant financial matters where some delegation occurs under the formally adopted Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board and the Expenditure Authorisation Policy.
All Directors are provided with the necessary papers in advance of the meetings to permit them to make informed decisions at those meetings.
The Board also considers employee issues and key appointments, including the role of Company Secretary.
The Board comprises eight Directors and the NonExecutive Chairman.
There are the same number of independent NonExecutive Directors and Executive Directors which the Board considers to be an appropriate and effective combination.
The Board also considers that four Executive Directors are sufficient to manage a Company of this size and organisational structure and they have all confirmed that they are able to devote sufficient time to their roles.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the NonExecutive Chairman and the Chief Executive so as to give no individual, unfettered powers of decision making.
The Chairman is responsible for: The leadership of the Board: Ensuring the Board functions in all aspects of its role: Facilitating the effective contribution of the NonExecutive Directors and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and NonExecutive Directors: Ensuring all Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information: Setting the agenda so all relevant issues are discussed, ensuring sufficient time is devoted to discussing issues particularly strategic ones: and Ensuring effective communication with stakeholders and acting as the public face of the Group.
The Chief Executive is responsible for: Operational management and control of the Group on a daytoday basis, local operational decisions are the responsibility of the local managers, who are accountable to the Chief Executive and other Board members: Formulating and proposing strategy to the Board: and Implementing the strategy and policies adopted by the Board.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 45 | Directors statement on corporate governance continued for the 52 week period ended 28 December 2012 The four independent NonExecutive Directors who served from the start of the period to 1 April 2012 were Bill Forrester, Ishbel Macpherson, Alan McWalter, and James Newman.
On 1 April 2012, Bill Forrester and James Newman retired from the Board and were replaced by Jane Ashcroft and Martin Pexton.
They were appointed by the Board with the assistance of external recruitment consultants.
The selection process followed was based on the specific criteria for the new NonExecutive Directors set by the Chairman and the remainder of the Board.
Both new Directors received full induction training.
The terms and conditions of all Directors appointments are available for inspection at the Groups registered office.
Biographical details for the NonExecutive Directors appear on pages 32 and 33.
Their role is to challenge constructively the management of the Group and help develop proposals on strategy.
Alan McWalter is the Senior Independent Director of the Group.
His role is to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and act as an intermediary for other Directors if needed and to be available to shareholders if necessary.
He replaced James Newman when he retired from the Board on 1 April 2012.
The Chairman and the NonExecutive Directors are required to and have formally confirmed to the Board, mindful of their other commitments, that they will have sufficient time to devote to their responsibilities as Directors of the Group.
Jane Ashcroft, Ishbel Macpherson, Alan McWalter, and Martin Pexton are independent of management, as defined by the Code.
All Directors are able to take independent professional advice on the furtherance of their duties if necessary at the Groups expense.
They also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is also the Corporate Services Director and, where it is considered appropriate and necessary, training is made available to Directors.
All Directors receive annual training and updates on the duties and responsibilities of being a Director of a listed company.
This covers legal, accounting and tax matters as required.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of any legal action against its Directors.
The level of cover is currently 50 million.
The Directors have, during the period, formally reminded themselves of their duties as Directors under the Companies Act 2006 Section 171177.
These duties include the need to avoid conflicts of interest Section 175.
No such conflicts of interest exist.
In accordance with the Code all Directors will submit themselves for reelection at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board has established a Remuneration Committee, an Audit Committee and a Nomination Committee, each of which operate within defined terms of reference.
The specific terms of reference for each of the Committees may be obtained from the Company Secretary at the registered office and they are also available for inspection on the Groups investor website www.
All Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Those attending and the frequency of Board and Committee meetings held during the year was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination i Main Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 6 3 5 2 Jane Ashcroft 3 2 22 ii Andrew Davies 5 2 iv Bill Forrester 21 1 ii ii Peter Hindley 6 3 5 2 ii ii Mike McCollum 6 3 3 Alan McWalter 6 3 5 2 Ishbel Macpherson 6 3 5 2 iv James Newman 21 1 Martin Pexton 4 2 3 2 iii iii iii Richard Portman 5 2 5 2 ii Steve Whittern 6 3 i Only full Board meetings have been included in the attendance analysis.
Seven further meetings were held with a quorum of Directors to approve announcements, documents or the issue of shares under the LTIP and SAYE.
ii In attendance by invitation of the respective Committee.
iii Richard Portman attended certain Committee meetings in his capacity as Company Secretary.
iv Bill Forrester and James Newman retired from the Board on 1 April 2012.
Prior to their retirement they attended all Board and Committee meetings.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 46 | Our business Governance Financial statements Other information When Directors are unable to attend a meeting, they are advised of the matters to be discussed and given an opportunity to make their views known to the Chairman prior to the meeting.
A process exists whereby such views will be included in the minutes of the meeting if necessary.
Three formal meetings between the Chairman and the NonExecutive Directors, without the Executive Directors being present were held during 2012.
During the year, the Board again undertook a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and Directors by way of the issue of a detailed questionnaire to all Directors.
This was then followed by a detailed review of the responses, by the Directors, and identification of any actions arising.
The NonExecutive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, are responsible for the performance evaluation of the Chairman taking into account the views of the other Executive Directors.
The Board was satisfied that its performance and that of its Chairman, individual Directors and Committees was of the appropriate standard.
As required under the Code the Board will undertake an external evaluation of its own performance in the second quarter of 2013.
This evaluation will be completed by Independent Audit Limited.
The Company Secretary, Richard Portman, is responsible for the preparation and distribution of all agendas, minutes and related Board and Committee papers.
As Corporate Services Director, he attends the Board meetings in his capacity as a Director of the Company but also acts as Secretary to those meetings.
He attends the Committee meetings in his capacity as Company Secretary and also as Secretary of those Committees when requested to do so by the Chairman of that Committee.
He is also responsible for ensuring all Board procedures are followed and for advising the Board on corporate governance matters.
The Board are happy that the role of Company Secretary is undertaken by the Corporate Service Director as, whilst there may be merit in separating the roles, the Board believes it is the most cost effective and sensible way of filling the role particularly given the skills and knowledge of the Corporate Services Director.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Alan McWalter, determines and agrees with the Board, within formal terms of reference, the framework and policy of Directors and senior managements remuneration and its cost to the Group.
The Committee met five times during 2012.
The Committee considers the performance of the Executive Directors as a prelude to recommending their annual remuneration, bonus awards and awards of share options to the Board for final approval.
The Committee members, until 1 April 2012 were Bill Forrester, Alan McWalter, Ishbel Macpherson and James Newman.
After their retirement from the Board, Bill Forrester and James Newman were replaced by Jane Ashcroft and Martin Pexton.
The Code requires a Committee of at least three members.
The Chief Executive and the Chairman can also attend the meetings by invitation of the Committee.
No Director or senior manager is involved in any decisions with regard to their own remuneration.
The Chairman of the Board is not a member of the Remuneration Committee.
The Executive Directors recommend the remuneration of NonExecutive Directors and recommendations take into account role, responsibilities and time commitment in the fulfilment of those duties.
The NonExecutive Directors are not eligible for pensions and do not participate in the Groups bonus or share schemes.
The Committee has considered the remuneration of senior management immediately below Board level during the year.
It concluded that their remuneration was commensurate with their various duties and in line with market rates.
Accountability and audit Audit Committee The Audit Committee in 2012 was made up of the independent NonExecutive Directors.
The Committee members during 2012 were, until 1 April 2012, Bill Forrester, Alan McWalter, Ishbel Macpherson and James Newman.
After their retirement from the Board Bill Forrester and James Newman were replaced by Jane Ashcroft and Martin Pexton.
The Chairman Ishbel Macpherson, is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience to chair this Committee and she assumed the Chairmanship from James Newman upon his retirement from the Board on 1 April 2012.
Its membership is restricted to NonExecutive Directors whose qualifications are shown in their biographies on pages 32 and 33.
The Committee has specific written terms of reference that explain its authority and duties.
The Committee has met three times during 2012.
The external auditors, the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director have attended all the meetings by invitation.
The Operations Director attended the meetings in July and December of 2012 by invitation.
The external auditors and the Head of Internal Audit separately meet with the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
During 2012, the Chairman met with the external Auditors on three occasions and the Chairman met with the Head of Internal Audit on two occasions.
The Chairman of the Board is not a member of the Audit Committee.
The Committee reviews the Groups Annual Report, Interim Report and other formal announcements related to the Groups financial performance before submission to the Board.
It keeps under review the Groups accounting policies, financial controls and internal control and risk management systems.
It also evaluates, on a regular basis, the work of Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 47 | Directors statement on corporate governance continued for the 52 week period ended 28 December 2012 the internal audit function and reviews its effectiveness.
The Committee also reviews matters brought to its attention both internally and by the external auditors.
The Committee reports all findings to the Board.
A formal process, established via the Audit Committee, exists by which employees of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
This ensures arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate followup action.
The Committee also keeps under review the relationship with the external auditors, including their terms of engagement, independence, objectivity and effectiveness taking into consideration relevant UK profession and regulatory requirements.
There is a formal policy adopted by both the Audit Committee and the Board covering non audit work that may be undertaken by the external auditors.
The Committee reviews whether that policy has been complied with and the remuneration received by the external auditors for such nonaudit work.
This is to safeguard the independence of the external auditors.
The Committee were satisfied in the period that this work, which was principally for tax advice, did not affect the external auditors independence and given the nature of the work it was pragmatic and cost effective for them to complete the work.
Details of the fees paid to the external auditors for all types of work are shown on page 70.
The external auditors have confirmed their audit independence in writing to the Committee.
The Committee also retains responsibility for the appointment and removal of the external auditors.
 LLP have been the Groups auditors since the management buy out from SCI in 2002.
 LLP, were auditors of SCI at this time.
The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the auditors is working well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
Accordingly, it has not considered it necessary to date to require the firm to tender for the audit work.
In reaching this decision, the Audit Committee has agreed to retain  LLP as auditors up to and including the audit of the 2014 financial results at which point it will consider a tender in line with prevailing guidelines at the time.
The external auditors are required to rotate the Group audit partner every five years and this is the fourth year for the current lead audit partner Matthew Mullins.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
However, under the terms of the Secured Notes, Dignity 2002 Limited and certain of its subsidiaries are only permitted to use  LLP, KPMG LLP, Deloitte LLP or Ernst & Young LLP or their successor firms.
Reporting responsibilities The Board is required to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects, not only in the Directors Report and Accounts but also in the Chairmans statement page 4, the Chief Executives Overview page 5, the Business Review pages 10 to 15, the Financial Review pages 16 to 18, Interim Reports, Interim Management Statements and in price sensitive announcements.
The Group will release its Annual Information Update by 1 April 2013.
A summary of the Directors responsibilities for the financial statements is set out on page 51.
Going concern The Directors receive and review regularly management accounts, cash balances, forecasts and the annual budget together with securitised debt covenant compliance.
After careful consideration, and mindful of the current market conditions, the Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Group and the Company has adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
The Directors formally considered this matter at the Board meeting held on 1 March 2013.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
Internal control and risk management The Board recognises it is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and risk management, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A formal ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group was in place for the period and in place up to the date the Statement on Corporate Governance was signed and approved for the Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
This process was in place at the date of approval of the Annual Report and is in accordance with the Code and the Turnbull Guidance.
Internal controls are formally reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Internal Audit completes a programme of work each year that provides assurance that the internal controls they have tested are working effectively and also propose improvements where appropriate and necessary.
Coupled with this, the biannual review of the Risk Register provides a further formal review mechanism for considering and reviewing internal controls.
All such work is reported to and monitored by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board, as part of an ongoing process, has formally reviewed and continues to keep under review the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee reviews risk management annually and receives reports from executive management regarding weaknesses in internal control, any losses arising out of Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 48 | Our business Governance Financial statements Other information weaknesses in internal control and progress in implementing revised procedures to improve and enhance internal control.
There have been no reports of system weaknesses that have resulted or would have resulted in a material misstatement or loss.
The key procedures, which operated throughout the period, are as follows: Financial reporting The Group has a comprehensive system of internal budgeting and forecasting.
The Groups monthly actual results analysed by operating division are reported to the Board and significant variances to budget are investigated with revised forecasts prepared as necessary.
Operational management receives comprehensive management accounts covering their areas of responsibility, which forms the basis for the consolidated accounts: Financial controls The Executive Directors have defined appropriate and necessary financial controls and procedures to be employed by operational management.
Key controls over major business risks include reviews against budgets and forecasts, review against key performance indicators and exception reporting: Quality and integrity of personnel One of the Groups core values is integrity.
This is regarded as vital to the maintenance of the Groups system of internal financial control.
The Directors have put in place an organisation structure appropriate to the size and complexity of the Group with defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority where the Board considers it necessary and appropriate: Internal audit The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit team, which reports to the Audit Committee and the Chief Executive.
It coordinates the completion of selfassessment reports by operational management that assists in highlighting areas of control weakness or exposure.
Internal audit reviews are completed on such areas together with selected areas of the head office function and any area where a Director requests a review.
During 2012 as in 2011, there were quarterly meetings between the Head of Internal Audit and the Executive Directors to formally review and discuss Internal Audits work programme and findings.
In addition, regular meetings between Internal Audit and the external auditors,  LLP, were held during the year to discuss and plan audit work and to ensure a complementary approach.
The Head of Internal Audit provides reports to the Audit Committee at every meeting: Procedures The Group has established and documented processes and procedures covering most parts of its operations, both client facing and in support departments.
These provide clear guidance on the correct or most appropriate course of action in various circumstances.
Procedures are supplemented by training where needs have been identified.
Both Internal Audit and a comprehensive management structure monitor the adherence to such processes and procedures: and Risk assessment Management has responsibility for the identification and evaluation of significant risks that might arise in their area of responsibility together with the design of suitable internal controls.
This was in place throughout the accounting period and at the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The Executive Directors and the wider management team continually assess the risks.
A Risk Register is maintained, which is formally presented to and reviewed by the Audit Committee twice a year.
These procedures are designed to, amongst other things, help to provide assurance around the process of preparing consolidated financial statements and the financial reporting system.
An explanation of how the Group creates and preserves value and the strategy for delivering its objectives is included in the Business Review section on pages 10 to 15.
Nomination Committee Peter Hindley, the Chairman, chaired the Nomination Committee during 2012, which met on two occasions during the year.
The other members of the Committee are Jane Ashcroft, Ishbel Macpherson, Alan McWalter and Martin Pexton.
The Committee regularly reviews and makes recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and composition of the Board and the senior management team.
It is also responsible for identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, replacement or additional Directors and members of the senior management team.
Such appointments would be preceded by the preparation, by the Committee, of a role description and capabilities.
In 2011 the Committee was involved in the identification and appointment of the new NonExecutive Directors, Jane Ashcroft and Martin Pexton.
The Nomination Committee and by extension the Board strongly supports the spirit of Lord Davies Report Women on Boards.
In 2011 it set a goal of twenty per cent of Board positions filled by women by 2015.
To facilitate achievement of this aspiration, as retiring Directors are replaced, the Committee will ensure that our executive search agents include the strongest possible field of female candidates.
This objective was achieved by the appointment of Jane Ashcroft to the Board on 1 April 2012.
We continue to remain mindful of the overall need to recruit the very best candidates regardless of gender.
The Board will continue to encourage similar diversity in senior management positions and throughout the workforce.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 49 | Directors statement on corporate governance continued for the 52 week period ended 28 December 2012 The Group will continue to publish the details on corporate diversity suggested in Recommendation 2 of the Davies Report, support the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code in Recommendation 3 and report on our compliance Recommendation 4 and appointment process Recommendation 5 in the Annual Report.
The Committee formally considers succession planning annually under the written terms of reference.
Relations with shareholders The Group encourages twoway communication with both its institutional and private shareholders and responds promptly to any queries received.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular meetings with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts to discuss information made public by the Group.
Where appropriate or if requested, such meetings could include either or both the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and the NonExecutive Directors are also available to meet separately with shareholders if necessary or requested to discuss any issues that they may have.
The Chairman is also available to discuss governance and strategy matters with the major shareholders.
The Corporate Services Director, in his additional role as Company Secretary, generally deals with queries from private shareholders.
The Group has and will arrange visits to its funeral locations and crematoria, if requested by a shareholder, where it will not disrupt services to our clients.
Each year all shareholders receive the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Interim Report is no longer published as a paper document but is available on the Groups separate investor website www.
co. uk, upon which users can also access the latest financial and corporate news.
The Board regards the Annual General Meeting, which this year is on 6 June 2013, as an opportunity to communicate directly with all shareholders.
At least 20 working days notice will be given of the Annual General Meeting at which all Directors plan to be present and available to answer questions.
The Takeover Directive The Group has one class of voting share capital, Ordinary Shares.
All of the shares rank pari passu.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Groups shares.
Under the Articles of Association the Company may appoint, by Ordinary Resolution, any person who is willing to act as a Director either to fill a vacancy or in addition to the existing Board.
The Board may also appoint one or more of its body to act as executive directors.
The Company may remove any Director, by Ordinary Resolution, before the expiry of his period of office.
The Articles of Association can be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The Board has authority to purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
There are no significant agreements to which the Group is party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control of the Group.
Substantial shareholdings The Group has been notified of the following interests of 3 per cent or more of the issued share capital: As at 28 December 2012 As at 6 March 2013 Number of Percentage Number of Percentage Ordinary of issued Ordinary of issued Holder Shares share capital Shares share capital Tiger Global Management LLC 3,640,829 6.65% 3,640,829 6.65% Franklin Templeton Institutional 2,957,175 5.40% 2,957,175 5.40% BAM & Oppenheimer Funds 2,787,652 5.09% 2,787,652 5.09% Montanaro Group 2,778,272 5.07% 2,778,272 5.07% Kames Capital 2,189,991 4.00% 2,189,991 4.00% By order of the Board Richard Portman Company Secretary 6 March 2013 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 50 |
