32 DIPLOMA PLC Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee Number of Committee Meetings: Directors and attendance 2012 John Matthews Chairman 6 6 John Rennocks 5 5 Ian Grice 5 6 John Matthews Marie-Louise Clayton appointed 13 November 2012 1 1 Chairman of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises John Matthews Chairman, In addition, the Audit Committee has an important role to play Ian Grice and Marie-Louise Clayton, who was appointed to the through its responsibility for, and oversight of, the auditor Committee on joining the Board on 13 November 2012.
John relationship and auditor independence.
The Committee Rennocks was a member of the Audit Committee until his reviewed the audit engagement in 2008 and following an audit resignation from the Committee on 13 November 2012: tender process, recommended to the Board the appointment however John Rennocks will continue to attend meetings of the of Deloitte LLP as auditor to the Company and Group.
The Committee at the invitation of the Chairman.
John Matthews Committee supports recent guidance in the Code that the and Marie-Louise Clayton are both qualied accountants who external audit engagement should be put out to tender at least have recent and relevant financial experience.
The meetings of the Committee are normally attended by the The Committee has also established a set of guidelines covering Executive Directors and the external auditor.
In addition, the the type of non-audit work that can be assigned to the external Chairman of the Committee meets privately with the external auditor.
These relate to further assurance services where the auditor at least twice each year.
The Group Company Secretary auditors detailed knowledge of the Groups affairs means that is Secretary to the Committee.
they may be best placed to carry out such work.
This extends to, but is not restricted to, shareholder and other circulars, Role of the Committee regulatory reports, and on occasions, work in connection with The main roles and responsibilities of the Committee are set disposals.
Work in connection with acquisitions, including due out in written terms of reference which are available on the diligence reviews, is generally not provided by the auditor, but is Companys website www.
They are placed with other rms.
as follows: to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Taxation services are generally not provided by the auditor: a Group and any formal announcements relating to the separate rm is retained to provide tax advice, including any Groups financial performance, reviewing significant financial assistance with tax compliance matters generally.
judgements contained therein: to review the Groups internal control systems and risk In other circumstances, proposed assignments are put out to management procedures: tender and decisions to award work taken on the basis of to make recommendations to the Board for it to put to demonstrable competence and cost effectiveness.
shareholders for approval in general meeting in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the The Committee receives an annual report which provides details external auditor and to approve the terms of engagement of of any assignments and related fees carried out by the auditor in the external auditor: addition to their normal audit work, and these are reviewed to review and monitor the external auditors independence against the above guidelines.
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process taking into consideration relevant UK professional and The Committee has also formally reviewed and approved the regulatory requirements: arrangements by which Group employees may, in confidence, to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the raise concerns about possible irregularities in financial reporting external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into or other matters so called whistleblowing procedures.
account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor: Activities During the Year to report to the Board, on any matters in respect of which it The Audit Committee assists the Board in assuring the integrity considers that action or improvement is needed and to make of the financial statements and related disclosures.
recommendations as to the steps to be taken: and to consider annually whether there is a need for a formal internal audit function and make recommendation to the Board.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 DIPLOMA PLC 33 During the current year, the Committee carried out the as far as practicable, that the policies and procedures following work: established by the Board are appropriate to manage the at its meetings in May and November, the Committee perceived risks to the Group.
These assessments are reviewed the Interim Report and the Annual Report & supplemented by a detailed evaluation of the key financial Accounts, respectively.
On both occasions, the Committee controls of the business units which are critically reviewed by received reports from the Group Finance Director and from the Groups Internal Audit Manager.
The Committee will the external auditor identifying any accounting or annually review the results of these assessments and identify the judgemental issues requiring its attention.
At its November key strategic and operating risks of the Group.
During the year, meeting, the Committee also received reports from the the risk assessment process revealed no significant risks of Group Internal Audit Manager: which the Board was not previously aware.
in September the Committee met with the external auditor to discuss their audit plan process: The risks and uncertainties which are currently judged to have in January and July the Committee met to approve formal the largest potential impact on the Groups long term Interim Management Statements which were released to the performance are set out on pages 22 to 25. market, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: and The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk the Committee met on one further occasion during the year management and internal control systems.
Taking into account the to review a Trading Update which the Company issued to the processes that have been designed and implemented for 2012, the market.
Board, with the advice of the Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems In the November meeting, the Committee reviews the for the period from 1 October 2011 to the date of this report and is information included in the Annual Report & Accounts to ensure satisfied that the Group has in place effective risk management and that the information provides a fair review of the Groups internal control systems.
It also reviews the external audit management letter and the procedures designed to ensure that the external auditor Internal Audit was aware of all relevant audit information, as required by the The Groups finance department includes a separate internal Companies Act 2006. audit function.
This was expanded in September by the appointment of a second qualied internal auditor who will be In May, the Committee also assesses the effectiveness of the based in Toronto, Canada and reports to the Group Internal external audit process and receives a report on the external Audit Manager in London.
A full programme of internal audit auditors own quality control procedures.
This assessment visits has been completed during the year.
The scope of work covers all aspects of the audit service provided by the carried out by internal audit generally focuses on the internal Companys external auditor.
financial controls and risk management procedures operating within each business.
Written reports are prepared on the results Risk Management and Internal Control of each visit which sets out weaknesses identied during the The Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of work, together with recommendations to improve the control the Groups system of internal control.
The system of internal environment.
These reports are reviewed and discussed with control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of the Executive Directors.
failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material At the conclusion of the financial year, the Group Internal Audit misstatement or loss.
Manager reports to the Committee on the results of the audit work carried out in the year and agrees an Audit Plan for the The Board has established a clear organisational structure with following financial year.
There were no significant weaknesses dened authority levels.
The day-to-day running of the Groups identied in the audits undertaken during the current year, but a business is delegated to the Executive Directors of the number of recommendations were made to improve internal Company.
The Executive Directors visit each operating unit on review processes and risk management procedures, particularly a regular basis and meet with both operational and finance in the newly acquired businesses and where the opportunity to management and staff.
Key financial and operational measures are reported on a The Committee continues to keep under review the need for a weekly and or monthly basis and are measured against both more independent internal audit function in the Group.
The budget and half year reforecasts which have been approved and Committee remains satisfied that the Groups system of internal reviewed by the Board.
On an annual basis, each business unit control is appropriate for a group of the size and nature of is required to prepare a risk assessment process on the key Diploma PLC and the Committees current view is that a separate strategic, operational, financial and accounting risks to identify, formal independent internal audit function is not necessary.
evaluate and manage the significant risks to the Groups business.
They include common denitions of risk and ensure, Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
