28 DIPLOMA PLC Corporate Governance Number of Board Meetings: Directors and attendance 2012 John Rennocks Chairman 6 6 John Matthews 6 6 Ian Grice 5 6 Marie-Louise Clayton appointed 13 November 2012 1 1 Bruce Thompson 6 6 John Rennocks Iain Henderson 6 6 Chairman Nigel Lingwood 6 6 This section of the Annual Report & Accounts sets out how In October 2012 the Board reviewed the Groups strategy for the the Board and its Committees discharge their duties and how next five years and used the opportunity to visit the UK Controls we apply the principles of good governance set out in the UK business in Swindon.
Management provided presentations on Corporate Governance Code the Code.
their businesses and their proposed development strategies and the Board visited the new facility in Swindon.
The review of the The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate Groups strategy provides an opportunity for the Board to reect governance appropriate to the size and complexity of Diploma on progress achieved in recent years and set plans and targets PLC.
The Company complied with the Code during its for the direction of future development of the Group.
transitional year of entry into the FTSE 250 and has made good progress in developing its policies and processes, including our Finally, I would like to encourage all shareholders to join us decision last year to adopt annual re-elections of all Directors at our AGM on 16 January 2013, as it provides an excellent and our commitment to undertake periodic external facilitation opportunity to meet all members of the Board.
of Board evaluation, once we have completed the additions to the Board, described below.
I remain confident that we will be in John Rennocks full compliance with the Code, as it applies to larger companies, Chairman by September next year.
Compliance Statement I referred last year to the long service of John Matthews and The Corporate Governance report on pages 29 to 43 is myself and my commitment to focus on developing the Board designed to provide shareholders with a clear summary of with a blend of skills so that we continue to have a Board where the Groups governance arrangements by reference to the the overall strength is greater than the sum of the parts.
We UK Corporate Governance Code the Code as it applied have made a good start this year and have recently appointed to the Company in 2012.
Throughout the accounting as a non-Executive Director, Marie-Louise Clayton whose period to which this report relates, the Directors believe that strong financial background and experience will make an the Company has complied with all of the relevant excellent addition to the Audit Committee.
We hope to make Provisions set out in Sections A to E of the Code.
a further appointment of another non-Executive Director in 2013 as part of an orderly succession plan.
I believe that through these changes the Board will continue to have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to enable the Directors to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Code was updated again in September 2012 with the addition of a limited, but important number of new Provisions, including a requirement to report on policies on Boardroom diversity.
We remain fully committed to Boardroom diversity but do not believe that for a Company of our size that it is appropriate to set measurable targets for diversity.
A further addition to the Code is a requirement to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years, which we support and is in line with our current policy.
Other amendments to the Code will be addressed in next years Annual Report & Accounts, once reporting practice has developed further.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 DIPLOMA PLC 29 Report on Corporate Governance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code To ensure that non-Executive Directors can constructively challenge As a UK-listed company, Diploma PLC is required to state and help proposals on strategy, the Board has adopted a process of whether it has complied with the Main Principles of the UK reviewing and approving the agreed strategy for the Company on a Corporate Governance Code the Code published by the two three yearly basis.
In October 2012, the Board undertook a Financial Reporting Council FRC in June 2010, throughout the strategy development review at the Groups business in Swindon, year in review and, where the provisions have not been complied UK.
The next strategy meeting is likely to be held in 2014. with, to provide an explanation.
Diploma PLC is also required to explain how it has applied the Main Principles of the Code and Effectiveness this is set out below.
The Board The Company was promoted to the FTSE 250 in October 2011 The FRC published a new edition of the Code on 28 September with a Board comprising the Chairman, two independent 2012 which contains further amendments to the 2010 Code.
non-Executive Directors, and three Executive Directors, Compliance with the new edition of the Code will not be providing an appropriate range of skill and experience.
mandatory for the Company until 2013.
On 13 November 2012 the Board appointed Marie-Louise Leadership Clayton as a non-Executive Director and member of the Audit The Companys governance structure is based on the leadership Committee.
The non-Executive Directors are appointed for principles set out in the Code.
The core activities of the Board specified terms and the details of their respective appointments and its Committees are planned on an annual basis and this are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 43.
The forms the basic structure within which the Board operates.
The biographical details of the Board members are set out on pages Board has adopted formal terms of reference which reect the 26 and 27. principles contained in the Code, and cover the following: Strategy reviewing and agreeing strategy: The Board has six scheduled meetings each year and meets Performance monitoring the performance of the Group more frequently as required.
It met on six occasions during the and also evaluating its own performance: year under review and attendance at these meetings is set out Standards and values setting standards and values to guide in the chart opposite.
During the year Ian Grice missed one the affairs of the Group: meeting due to unforeseen circumstances and the Group Oversight ensuring an effective system of internal controls Company Secretary ensured that he was fully briefed on the is in place, ensuring that the Board receives timely and business of the meeting.
accurate information on the performance of the Group and the proper delegation of authority: and The non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board to People ensuring the Group is managed by individuals with be independent in character and judgement and there are no the necessary skills and experience and that appointments to relationships or circumstances which could affect, or appear to the Board are managed effectively.
The Chairman, John Rennocks The terms of reference also sets out the separate and distinct was considered independent by the Board both at the time of roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
his appointment as Director on 12 July 2002 and as Chairman on 7 January 2004 and in accordance with the Code, the The Board appoints the Chief Executive and monitors his ongoing test of independence for the Chairman is not performance in leading the Company and providing operational appropriate.
The Board also recognises the long service of John and performance management in delivering the agreed Matthews, who is the Senior Independent Director and who will strategy.
Specically, he is responsible for developing, for the at the time of the next Annual General Meeting on 16 January Boards approval, appropriate values and standards to guide all 2013, have served nine years as a non-Executive Director, activities undertaken by the Company.
having been first elected by shareholders in January 2004.
The Board remains satisfied that John continues to be a strong and The approval of acquisitions, for the most part, is a matter independent contributor, who both demonstrates commitment reserved for the Board, save that it delegates to the Chief to the role and possesses in-depth knowledge of the Group.
Executive the responsibility for such activities to a specified level The Board believe that it is in the best interests of the Company of authority.
Similarly, there are authority levels covering capital that John Matthews remains as a non-Executive Director to expenditure which can be exercised by the Chief Executive.
assist the ongoing refreshment of the Board over the next Beyond these levels of authority, projects are referred to the twelve months.
Other matters reserved to the Board include treasury policies, internal control, risk management and the appointment or removal of the Group Company Secretary.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover with respect to legal action against its Directors.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 30 DIPLOMA PLC Corporate Governance continued Report on Corporate Governance continued All non-Executive Directors are advised of the likely time In identifying suitable candidates, consider candidates on merit commitments at appointment.
The ability of individual and against objective criteria and will take care that appointees Directors to allocate sufficient time to the discharge of their have enough time available to devote to the position.
responsibilities is considered as part of the Directors annual Consider candidates from a range of backgrounds, both evaluation process overseen by the Chairman.
Any issues internally and externally and may use the services of external concerning the Chairmans time commitment are dealt with advisors to facilitate the search.
by the Nomination Committee, chaired for this purpose by the Senior Independent Director.
During the year the Nomination Committee met five times at which proposals for development of the Board were discussed.
Non-Executive Directors are required to inform the Board of any changes to their other appointments.
As part of this process, the Committee determined the selection criteria for new independent non-Executive Directors, which set There are three standing Committees of the Board to which out particular skills, knowledge, independence, experience and various matters are delegated.
Membership of the Committees diversity, including gender.
is set out on pages 26 and 27 and terms of reference of each the Committees are set out on the Companys website The Committee, having agreed the selection criteria, decided to www.
In compliance with the Code, the appoint Norman Broadbent LLP, an external search agency, to Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees are assist with the identication of suitable candidates.
Norman comprised exclusively of independent non-Executive Directors.
Broadbent LLP has no other connection with the Company.
Norman Broadbent LLP drew up a list of candidates from a During the year the Chairman has also held meetings with the range of industries and backgrounds for initial appraisal by the non-Executive Directors, without the Executive Directors present.
From this, a shortlist of suitable candidates, that met the search and selection criteria, was prepared and these Diversity candidates were interviewed by the Nomination Committee.
The Board is committed to a culture that attracts and retains Following these interviews, the Nomination Committee talented people to deliver outstanding performance and further recommended to the Board the appointment of Marie-Louise enhance the success of the Company.
In that culture, diversity Clayton as a non-Executive Director.
across a range of criteria is valued, primarily in relation to skills, knowledge and experience and also in other criteria such as Marie-Louise Clayton will be appointed for an initial period of gender and ethnicity.
The Board has considered setting three years, subject to election by shareholders at the Annual objectives in relation to diversity, but does not believe that such General Meeting on 16 January 2013 and annually thereafter.
objectives are appropriate at this juncture, given the relatively Thereafter, and subject to her election, her appointment will be small Board.
The Board will however keep this matter for a term of three years unless terminated earlier by, and at the underreview, particularly in light of Board succession discretion of, either party, upon three months notice.
Information and professional development Appointments to the Board An induction programme is agreed for all new Directors aimed The Board has established a Nomination Committee which leads atensuring that they are able to develop an understanding and the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations awareness of the Companys core processes, its people and to the Board.
The members of the Nomination Committee are businesses.
The non-Executive Directors awareness of the John Rennocks, who is the Chairman, together with John businesses is further developed through periodic visits to the Matthews and Ian Grice.
The Committee would be chaired by principal business locations and presentations to the Board by the Senior Independent Director on any matter concerning the senior management of the businesses.
The Group Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
The Chairman, with the assistance of the Chief Executive and the Group Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference Directors are supplied with information in a timely manner that is which are available on the Companys website, covering the in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable them to discharge authority delegated to it by the Board.
In carrying out its duties, their duties.
In the normal course of business, the Chief Executive the Committee will: makes an oral report to the Board at each meeting and Take responsibility for identifying and nominating, for the information is provided and reported through formal Board approval of the Board, candidates to ll Board vacancies as reports that include information on operational matters and and when they arise.
There are also reports on the Before making an appointment, evaluate the balance of skills, performance of Group operations, financial performance relative knowledge and experience on the Board and in the light of to the Budget, business development and investor relations.
this evaluation, prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 DIPLOMA PLC 31 The training needs of the Directors are periodically discussed at The arrangements established by the Board for the application Board meetings and where appropriate, briengs as necessary ofrisk management and internal control principles are set out are provided on various elements of corporate governance and onpage 33.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee other regulatory issues.
oversight of the Groups corporate reporting, management of the relationship with the auditor and review of the Companys risk The Group Company Secretary acts as an advisor to the Board management and internal control procedures, further details of on matters concerning governance and regulatory issues and which can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 32. ensures compliance with Board procedures.
All Directors have access to his advice and a procedure also exists for Directors Relations with Shareholders to take independent professional advice at the Companys The Company has a well developed investor relations expense.
No such advice was sought during the year.
The programme managed by the Chief Executive and Group appointment and removal of the Group Company Secretary Finance Director.
Through this programme the Company and his remuneration are matters for the Board as a whole.
maintains regular contact with major shareholders to communicate clearly the Groups objectives and monitors As indicated last year, the Board reviewed the combined role of movements in significant shareholdings.
Company Secretary and Group Finance Director, and concluded that following promotion to the FTSE 250, it was now appropriate Most shareholder contact is with the Chief Executive Officer to separate the two roles.
Anthony Gallagher was appointed as and Group Finance Director through presentations made twice Group Company Secretary with effect from 21September 2012. a year on the operating and financial performance of the Group and its longer term strategy.
The Chief Executive Officer and Board evaluation Group Finance Director generally deal with questions from The Boards annual evaluation of effectiveness are completed individual shareholders.
internally using specically designed evaluation forms and under the direction of the Chairman.
This exercise encompasses All financial and trading announcements are published an evaluation ofthe performance of the Board as a whole, as immediately on the Companys website, www.
com, well as ofthe Committees and individuals.
Feedback on Board including copies of the presentations made to analysts and key performance is presented to a meeting of the Board which shareholders.
agrees actions and objectives for the followingyear.
The non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the The Board intends to introduce periodic external evaluations of views of institutional shareholders and an independent insight is the Board in the future.
sought through research carried out twice a year by the Companys advisors.
Re-election All Directors to the Board are subject to election by the Through these processes, the Board is kept abreast of key issues shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their and the opportunity for shareholders to meet the Chairman or appointment by the Board.
The Board has adopted the provision of Senior Independent Director, separately from the Executive the Code, whereby all Directors are subject to re-election annually.
Directors, is available on request.
Remuneration Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee atleast 20 working days prior to the meeting and includes a responsibility for agreeing remuneration policy and the separate resolution on each substantially separate issue.
All remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The Committee is shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the formed exclusively of non-Executive Directors and the Report Companys Annual General Meeting when the Chairman and of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 34 to 43.
Chief Executive Officer give a statement on the Groups performance during the year, together with a statement on Accountability current trading conditions.
The Chairman of the Board and of The Board is committed to providing shareholders with a clear the Remuneration and Audit Committees will normally be assessment of the Companys financial position and prospects.
available to answer questions at the meeting.
This is achieved through this Annual Report & Accounts, the Annual Review and through other periodic financial statements The Board has resolved, in line with emerging best practice, andannouncements.
toconduct a poll on each resolution proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The results of the Annual General Meeting resolutions, including details of votes cast, are published on the Companys website.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
