Directors Report Corporate Governance Nominations Committee Report We have a formal rigorous and John Allan transparent process for the appointment of new directors which was followed during theyear.
Nominations Committee Role Reports to the Dixons Retail plc Board The principal duties of the Committee are to: Main Objective: To monitor the size and composition of the Board Review the structure, size and composition of the Board and its andits committees and ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent principal Committees and to recommend changes as necessary: procedure for the appointment of new directors and to plan Review the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive forsuccession.
andnon-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability ofthe organisation to compete effectively: Chairman: John Allan Be responsible for the succession planning for Board members, Number of Meetings: 5 inparticular the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive: Member Attendance Identify, evaluate and nominate candidates to ll vacancies on the Board: and John Allan 5 of 5 Make recommendations to the Board regarding the continuation Rita Clifton 5 of 5 inofce of a director upon the expiry of any specified terms Utho Creusen 5 of 5 ofappointment.
Tim How 5 of 5 Dharmash Mistry 4 of 5 The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually 1 by the Committee and are available on the Corporate Governance Jock Lennox 3 of 3 section of the Groups website.
Former director 2 Andrew Lynch 5 of 5 Key matters considered 1 Appointed 10 January 2012 During the year, the principal matters considered by the Committee 2 Resigned 9 May 2012 were as follows: The appointment of Humphrey Singer, Sebastian James and Membership and process Katie Bickerstaffe as executive directors and the appointment During the year under review the Committee comprised of of Jock Lennox as non-executive director to the Board: John Allan as Chairman, Rita Clifton, Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen, Consideration of the succession planning process for the directors Tim How, Dharmash Mistry, Andrew Lynch resigned 9 May 2012 following the Board changes that had taken place during the year: and Jock Lennox appointed 10 January 2012, all of whom are An evaluation of the size, composition and structure of the Board non-executive directors.
The remaining members served throughout and its Committees: and the period under review.
A review of the Committees performance and terms of reference.
The biographical details of the members of the Committee are The Nominations Committee keeps itself up to date on best practice setout on page 45.
The Company Secretary and General Counsel through a combination of private research in addition to brieng acts as Secretary to theCommittee.
by internal and external advisors on key developments relevant to the Company.
The Committee met on five occasions during the period and the members attendance record at meetings is shown above.
Appointments to the Board The Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure The Committees deliberations are reported by its chairman to forthe appointment of new directors to the Board which it followed the following Board meeting and the minutes of each meeting inrelation to director appointments during the year.
It is the policy are circulated to all members of the Board.
ofthe Committee that appointments are made on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the benets of diversity andthe leadership needs of the Company.
For the executive appointments made during the year, the Committee met to identify any potential internal candidates through the use of external evaluations and benchmarking.
They were satisfied that the candidates were suitable against objective criteria for appointment to the Board.
54 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Corporate Governance With regard to the appointment of Jock Lennox as non-executive Re-election director, the Committee engaged the services of the Zygos The Company has determined that in line with its previous practice Partnership, an independent rm specialising in non-executive and in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all recruitment, who were asked to assist with the search for a suitable directors should seek election or re-election at the 2012 AGM.
candidate as against a summary of requirements for the candidate Each of the directors being proposed for election or re-election are which was put together by the Committee in conjunction with the being unanimously recommended by the other members of the Chairman.
A formal and objective process then took place which Board.
This recommendation was considered appropriate due involved the potential candidate meeting with the Chairman and to the directors individual experience and knowledge and wider the Board, suitable references being obtained and an objective management and industry experience.
The annual performance assessment of the candidates skills and experience which evaluation concluded that each director continued to be effective are matched with the needs of the business.
and committed to their role and the independent non-executive directors were re-afrmed by the Board to be independent in The Board and the Nominations Committee were mindful of the fact character and judgement.
that the Board had comprised certain long-serving directors and reviewed its succession planning with the progressive refreshing The executive directors service contracts and non-executive of the Board in mind.
As part of this programme on 9 May 2012, directors letters of appointment are available for inspection by Andrew Lynch retired from the Board having served just under priorarrangement, during normal business hours, at the Companys nine years as a director and was replaced by Jock Lennox.
They will also be available for inspection at the venue, prior to the AGM, details of which are contained in the Terms of reference Noticeof Meeting.
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee were reviewed during the year and re-approved.
Whilst the Committee is responsible for succession planning in relation to directors of the Board it continues to be Company policy that succession planning John Allan for senior executives other than Board members be dealt with by Chairman of the Nominations Committee the Board as a whole.
21 June 2012 Diversity The Board acknowledges the Davies Report on Women on Boards, and recognises the importance of diversity, including, but not restricted to, gender diversity on the Board and in its senior management team.
The Board recognises the important role that diversity plays in achieving the right mix of skills, knowledge and experience in order to help the organisation reach its potential.
However, the Board is not supportive of specic quotas, believing that individuals should be appointed on merit.
The Board is, however, committed to increasing boardroom and senior management diversity as suitable candidates present themselves for appointment.
The Committee monitors gender diversity and currently 22% two out of nine of the Companys Board are female and 25% of the Groups senior management team are women.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Dixons Retail plc 55
