Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report John Allan Corporate Governance Report approval of major capital expenditure, material acquisitions and The Board confirms that during the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2012, divestments and material contracts: and and as at the date of this Annual Report, the Company has been appointment and remuneration of the external auditors on the in compliance with the Code, which applied to the Company recommendation of the Audit Committee.
for the first time this financial year.
This report together with the Statutory Information, the Audit Committee Report, the Nominations Helen Grantham, the Company Secretary and General Counsel, acts as Secretary to the Board and its Committees.
She is also Committee Report, and the Remuneration Report provides details responsible for ensuring that correct Board procedures are followed of how the Company has applied the principles and complied with and advises the Board on legal and corporate governance matters.
the provisions of the Code.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company The Board Secretary and may also take independent professional advice As at 28 April 2012, the Board of Directors was made up of ten at the expense of the Company in furtherance of their duties.
members, comprising the Chairman, three executive directors and The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is six non-executive directors.
Since that date, Andrew Lynch has one of the matters reserved for the Board.
resigned from the Board on 9 May 2012, as previously announced.
Board attendance The Board has reconrmed that all the non-executive directors The Board held a separate strategy day in addition to meeting on continue to be considered as independent and each brings their 12 occasions during the year under review, nine of which were own senior level of experience.
The Board has especially considered scheduled Board meetings and three were ad-hoc meetings to the independence of Rita Clifton who has been on the Board for just approve specic matters.
Due to the ad-hoc board meetings being under nine years at the date of this report and has concluded that called at short notice, not all directors were able to attend, and the she continues to be independent in character and judgement.
table below shows attendance atscheduled Board meetings only The Chairman was deemed to be independent on appointment.
The division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive is formally dened, set out in writing and reviewed Member Attendance by the Board on a regular basis.
The Chairman is responsible for John Allan 9 of 9 the overall operation, leadership and governance of the Board.
1 Sebastian James 2 of 2 The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the executive 2 Humphrey Singer 7 of 7 management of the Groups business and for implementing 1 7 the Groups strategic and commercial objectives.
Katie Bickerstaffe 1 of 2 Rita Clifton 9 of 9 Andrew Lynch performed the role of Senior Independent Director Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 9 of 9 during the period under review and until his resignation on 9 May Tim How 9 of 9 2012, at which point Tim How took over the role.
As such Tim How now supports the Chairman and is available for approach or Dharmash Mistry 9 of 9 representation from shareholders who feel they are unable to raise 3 Jock Lennox 3 of 3 issues with the Chairman directly.
The Senior Independent Director Former directors also discusses, on an individual basis, the performance of the 4 John Browett 7 of 7 Chairman with each director and provides feedback on these 5 Nicholas Cadbury 3 of 3 discussions to the Chairman.
The role of the Senior Independent 6 8 Andrew Lynch 8 of 9 Director is clearly dened and set out in writing.
1 appointed to the Board 20 February 2012 2 appointed to the Board 1 July 2011 The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
3 appointed to the Board 10 January 2012 This schedule was reviewed during the year and includes, but is not 4 resigned from the Board on 20 February 2012 limited to: 5 resigned from the Board on 1 September 2011 approval of Group strategy and the annual budget: 6 resigned from the Board on 9 May 2012 7 Katie Bickerstaffe was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a prior commitment made overseeing the Groups operations and review of its performance: before her appointment.
changes relating to the Companys share capital or 8 Andrew Lynch was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a prior commitment.
corporate structure: Committees of the Board communications with shareholders including approval of the Interim The Board has three main committees: Audit, Nominations and Statement, Annual Report and Accounts including the review Remuneration.
Individual reports on the work of these committees of critical accounting policies and judgements and assessment and their membership and attendance are set out on pages 52 to 66. of going concern and other major public announcements: maintainance and monitoring the Groups system of internal control and risk management: Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Dixons Retail plc 49 Directors Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Dixons Retail is dependent on its senior management to operate its areas of improvement such as Board materials including presentation business and execute its strategies.
Dixons Retail has a decentralised and volume of papers and succession planning.
Since the review, management structure with many high-level management decisions the Group has implemented some new guidelines in the production delegated to regional or country management.
of board papers and has begun to use an electronic board portal.
Further improvements will be made in the coming year.
Board information and development The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all directors are Certain aspects of evaluation continued to be done internally.
properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they Each committee performed a self evaluation of its performance have full and timely access to relevant information.
The quality and on the basis of a detailed questionnaire relating to the areas of supply of information provided to the Board is reviewed as part responsibility for that particular committee and provided feedback of the Board evaluation exercise.
The Chairman also holds regular to the Board.
Key issues and action areas were then reported to, meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive and monitored by, the Board.
directors being present to discuss, amongst other matters, corporate Authorisation of conicts of interest strategy, business performance and the performance of the The Company has procedures in place to identify, authorise and executive team.
There is frequent contact between directors outside manage conicts of interest and these procedures have operated formal meetings to progress the Groups business and to promote effectively during the year.
Authorisation of conicts is handled by the open communication and team working.
Board and the Audit Committee reviews them on an annual basis.
The Board holds meetings at a variety of Group business locations A register of directors conicts is maintained.
to help all Board members gain a deeper understanding of the Internal control business.
This also provides senior management from across the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal Group with the opportunity to present to the Board as well as to control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst senior management meet the directors on more informal occasions.
All directors are is responsible and accountable for internal control and effective risk encouraged to attend external seminars relevant to the retail industry management at an operational level.
and corporate governance matters in order to refresh and update their knowledge.
The Board also receives bi-monthly updates on The Board confirms that the Group has established and maintained legal and corporate governance matters.
a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and this has been in place throughout the New directors appointed to the Board receive a tailored induction 52 weeks ended 28 April 2012, up to the date of approval of the programme together with guidance and training as appropriate financial statements, and accords with the Turnbull guidance and the to their level of previous experience.
Each director is given the Code.
This process is designed to manage rather than eliminate the opportunity to meet with the members of senior management risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide and store colleagues, and to visit the Groups sites both in the UK reasonable, but not absolute assurance against material and overseas in order to familiarise themselves with the Groups misstatement or loss.
businesses and the markets in which they operate.
New directors arealso encouraged to meet with the Groups auditors and Certain of the Boards responsibilities have been delegated to otheradvisors.
the Audit Committee, which has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control including material financial, operational Board evaluation and compliance controls and risk management for the year under During the year, in accordance with the Code, the Board undertook review.
The Audit Committee has ensured that any required remedial its first externally facilitated performance evaluation.
The external action has or is being taken.
This has included regular reporting evaluation was carried out by Independent Board Evaluation, who and presentations from PIXmania management on the progress in have no other connection to the Company, and it included the resolving historical issues arising from weaknesses in controls over performance of the Board, its committees and of individual directors.
The system of internal control and the process The process was that each director, and certain members of the for managing risk include the following elements: senior management team, were interviewed in depth by Independent Board Evaluation without other Board members present.
Two Board Discussion and approval by the Board of the Groups strategic meetings were observed, John Browetts final Board meeting direction, plans and objectives, and the risks to achieving them: and the first meeting following Sebastian Jamess appointment.
The Board and management committees meet regularly to monitor A number of committee meetings were also attended.
The reviews progress against the targets set out in the Groups budget and findings were then discussed with the Chairman prior to being strategic five year plan: presented to the Board.
The dened levels of authority established by the Board ensure The results of the evaluation were well received by the Directors.
that significant decisions are taken at an appropriate level, Certain strengths were identied such as corporate governance supported by a group wide delegation of authority process: practices and relationships with shareholders, in addition to several 50 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Corporate Governance Each business function has established procedures and controls Whistleblowing policy to minimise the risk of fraud and to safeguard the Groups assets: The Group operates a whistleblowing policy and has a condential helpline operated by a third party.
This can be used to report, Policies, procedures and governance structures to ensure capital anonymously if so wished, on matters of concern to employees.
investment is appropriately approved and subsequently monitored: This can range from unethical behaviour, such as fraud, to practices Policies, controls and procedures have been established over the that might endanger the health of customers and colleagues.
security of data held on, and functionality provided by, the Groups business systems.
These include disaster recovery arrangements: Bribery Act Business continuity plan: The Bribery Act came into force on 1 July 2011.
As a result, the The Group appoints individuals who are of a calibre to enable them Group has reviewed and enhanced its policies and procedures to to discharge the duties and responsibilities of the roles assigned help prevent individuals associated with the Group from committing to them to minimise operational risk: acts of bribery.
These policies and procedures include training for The Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with individuals to ensure awareness of acts that might be construed as each significant risk that has been identied.
These strategies contravening the new regulations.
The Groups Anti-Bribery Policy include insurance, treasury policies and operational framework, is included on the Investors section of the corporate website.
and common standards of internal control: All employees in subsidiaries within the Group have the opportunity Relations with shareholders to make condential disclosures about suspected impropriety or The Company is committed to effective communication with all of wrongdoing to a hotline run and monitored by a third party: its members, whether institutional investors, private or employee shareholders.
The Company reports formally to shareholders when Policies and procedures covering financial reporting: its full year and half year results are published.
These results are Local management at each business unit and in those functions posted on the investor section of the Companys corporate website.
of the Group requiring greater overview have responsibility for Regular trading updates are also posted on the corporate website identication and evaluation of significant risks to their business in addition to RNS announcements and other press releases areas together with design of mitigating controls: and made by the Company.
In accordance with the Listing Rules, formal The Company Code of Ethics.
notication of the Companys AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
The directors, including the The Groups approach to managing risk is reviewed regularly respective Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations to identify ways in which it can be improved.
Committees, are available for questions formally during the AGM and informally afterwards.
The AGM of the Company is due to take There are clear processes for monitoring the system of internal control place on 6 September 2012 at the Holiday Inn London - Bloomsbury, and reporting any significant corrective control weaknesses, together Coram Street, London WC1N 1HT.
Further details of the AGM are with corrective action.
These include reports to the Audit Committee set out in the Notice of Meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
from assurance providers, periodic certication from business units, reviews by Group and regional management, whistleblowing facilities Effective two-way communication with institutional investors, and independent assurance from both internal and external audit.
brokers and analysts is established through regular presentations and The latter of these are described in more detail below.
meetings in the UK and overseas, usually by the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Investor Relations & Corporate Affairs Internal audit Director.
The Chairman holds occasional meetings with major The Internal Audit department is fully independent of business shareholders to discuss matters of mutual interest including corporate operations and has a group-wide mandate.
Its work is driven by strategy and governance.
Where appropriate, the Chairman of the a risk-based methodology ensuring that the controls to mitigate Remuneration Committee communicates with major shareholders the Groups key risks are audited on a regular basis.
Third parties to canvass opinion when deciding remuneration policy.
The Senior may be engaged to support audit work as appropriate.
Its plans Independent Director and the other non-executive directors are also are approved by the Audit Committee, which also receives reports available to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested.
on its findings and progress of related actions at each meeting.
Matters arising from these presentations and meetings are The department also works with the businesses to promote and communicated to the Board.
The Board receives an investor relations further develop effective risk management within their operations.
report at each of its scheduled meetings, as well as a detailed annual The Group Director for Internal Audit and Risk Management review of the perception of the Company amongst stakeholders.
attends all Audit Committee meetings.
External auditors The external auditors provide further independent observations of certain elements of the internal financial controls as part of their audit John Allan of the financial statements.
Their findings are presented to the Audit Chairman Committee with updates on progress against the recommendations 21 June 2012 being made throughout the year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Dixons Retail plc 51
