Corporate Governance Statutory Information The directors present their report and audited financial statements Subject to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, for the 52 week period ended 28 April 2012. the Companies Acts and any directions given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed The Business Review, which provides a comprehensive review by the Board, who may exercise all the powers of the Company, ofthedevelopment, performance and future prospects of the whether relating to the management of the business of the Company Groupsoperations for the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2012, or not.
The matters reserved for the Board are detailed in a specic includesthe following: schedule, details of which are reviewed annually and provided in the Business Overview, including principal activities: Corporate Governance Report.
Strategic Summary: Directors responsibilities Performance Review, including Corporate Responsibility Report: and The directors responsibilities for the financial statements contained Corporate Governance.
within this Annual Report and the directors conrmations required under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
These sections are incorporated by reference and are deemed to form part of this report.
Employees and employee share schemes A commentary on the Groups role as an employer is included Changes in composition of the Group in the Corporate Responsibility Report and details of employee As announced in the 2010 11 Annual Report, all 34 stores and involvement through share participation are contained in the online operations of PC City Spain were closed or transferred to Remuneration Report.
third parties during the year with the last store closing in June 2011.
Details of the Groups employee share plans and long-term incentive Post balance sheet events plans are contained in the Remuneration Report and note 25 to the Particulars of any important events affecting the Group since Financial Statements.
28April2012 are described in note 32 to the Financial Statements.
Share capital Directors The Companys only class of share is ordinary shares.
The authorised The names, biographies and dates of appointment of the Board and issued share capital of the Company, together with any shares of directors are provided on page 45. issued during the period are set out in note 23 to the Financial Statements.
The voting rights of all Dixons Retail plc shares are In line with best practice and the UK Corporate Governance Code identical, with each share carrying the right to one vote.
holds no the Code, all directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election shares in Treasury and did not make any market Dixons Retail plc at the 2012 AGM.
The Remuneration Report on pages 60 and 61 purchases of its own shares during the period under review.
provides details of applicable service agreements for executive directors and terms of appointment for non-executive directors.
The Restrictions on transfer of securities of the Company Board is satisfied that each director is qualied for reappointment There are no specic restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the by virtue of their skills, experience and contribution to the Board.
transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors During the year, no director had any material interest in any contract are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys of signicance to the Groups business.
Their interests, including shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or those of any connected persons, in the shares of the Company are on voting rights.
outlined in sections IV, VIII and IX of the Remuneration Report.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles themselves Change of control significant agreements may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The Company does not have any significant agreements which contain change of control clauses other than for its borrowings.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the Further details are disclosed in note 17 to the Financial Statements.
extent permitted by law, the Company may indemnify its directors out of its own funds to cover liabilities incurred as a result of their In addition, provisions under the rules of the Companys share ofce.
The Group has purchased directors and ofcers liability incentive schemes may cause options and awards granted under insurance cover for any claim brought against directors or ofcers these schemes to vest and become exercisable in the event of a for wrongful acts in connection with their positions.
The insurance change of control.
provided does not extend to claims arising from fraud or dishonesty.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Dixons Retail plc 47 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statutory Information continued Major shareholders Going concern As at 20 June 2012, the Company has been notied in accordance In considering the going concern basis for preparing the financial with the Financial Service Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency statements, the directors have considered the Companys objectives Rules, of the following interests in the voting rights of the Company: and strategy, risks and uncertainties in achieving its objectives and its review of business performance which are all set out in the Direct indirect No.
of shares % Business Overview, Strategic Summary and Performance Review sections of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Groups liquidity Schroders Plc Indirect 487,888,849 13.51% and funding arrangements are described in notes 17 and 22 f UBS Global Asset Direct and to the financial statements as well as in the funding section of the Management Indirect 400,763,593 11.10% Performance Review and the directors consider that the Group has Tameside MBC Greater significant covenant and liquidity headroom in its borrowing facilities Manchester Pension Fund Direct 256,990,933 7.12% for the foreseeable future.
Direct and Standard Life Investments Ltd Indirect 244,603,053 6.78% Accordingly, after reviewing the Companys expenditure commitments, Invesco Limited Indirect 180,788,477 5.00% current financial projections and expected future cashows, together Letko, Brosseau & Associates Inc.
Indirect 179,918,108 4.98% with the available cash resources and undrawn committed borrowing Capital Research & facilities, the directors have considered that adequate resources Management Company Indirect 175,071,032 4.85% exist for the Company to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt Skagen AS Direct 148,902,954 4.12% the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Norges Bank Direct 144,441,267 4.00% Legal & General Group Plc Direct 115,471,857 3.19% Corporate governance compliance Capital Group International, Inc.
Indirect 108,285,949 3.00% The statement on compliance with the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the Code for the reporting period Issue of shares is contained on page 49 of this report.
At the 2011 AGM, shareholders approved a resolution to give the directors authority to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of Audit information 30,085,950.
The directors have no present intention to issue ordinary So far as each person who is a director at the date of approving shares, other than obligations under employee share schemes.
This thisreport is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being resolution remains valid until the conclusion of this years AGM when information needed by the auditors in connection with their report, a resolution will be proposed to renew the authority.
ofwhich the auditors are unaware.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors, each director has taken all the steps that he she is Related party transactions obliged to take as a director in order to make himself herself aware Details of related party transactions undertaken during the year of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are are contained in note 31 to the Financial Statements.
This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Political and charitable donations Companies Act 2006.
The Group engages in various charitable activities as set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 43.
During the period Auditors under review, the Group made donations of 657,000 2010 11 Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to be reappointed 211,000 to local charities serving the communities in which the asauditors of the Company.
Upon the recommendation of the Group operates.
AuditCommittee, resolutions to reappoint them as auditors and toauthorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be At the 2011 AGM, the shareholders of the Company adopted a proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
resolution authorising the Board to incur political expenditure up to an aggregate amount not exceeding 25,000 during 2011 12.
Annual General Meeting Notwithstanding this, the Company made no political donations The AGM will be held on 6 September 2012 at Holiday Inn London during the period 2010 11 nil.
The Company has no present Bloomsbury, Coram Street, Russell Square, London WC1N 1HT intention to make political donations but a resolution will be at 10.30am.
The Notice of Meeting, together with full details of the presented to the 2012 AGM to renew this authority.
business to be conducted, are included as aseparate document.
Payment of suppliers It is the Groups policy to agree terms of payment with its suppliers on a case by case basis prior to commencing trade with them.
Payments are made in accordance with these terms provided the supplier has complied with relevant contractual obligations.
Helen Grantham Trade creditors as at 28 April 2012 represent 54 days of annual Company Secretary purchases made during the period 30 April 2011 53 days.
21 June 2012 48 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12
