Directors Report Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Our Audit Committee monitors Jock Lennox and reviews the Companys risk and financial management and its systems of internal control.
Audit Committee Role Reports to the Dixons Retail plc Board The Committee assists the Board to full its oversight Main Objective: To assist the Board in fullling its obligations related responsibilities.
Its primary functions are to: to the Companys financial management and reporting and internal monitor the integrity of the financial statements and any formal control systems.
announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: review critical accounting policies and financial reporting Chairman: Jock Lennox judgements: Number of meetings: 4 review the integrity of the Groups system of internal control and risk management: Member Attendance monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal 1 Jock Lennox 1 of 1 audit function: Rita Clifton 4 of 4 review and approve the annual audit plan of both the internal Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 4 of 4 and external audit functions including principal areas of focus: Tim How 4 of 4 review the Groups risk and insurance programmes: Dharmash Mistry 4 of 4 carry out an annual assessment of the external auditors, review and Former director monitor their independence and objectivity taking into consideration 2 relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements, assess the Andrew Lynch 4 of 4 effectiveness of the external audit process, approve the external 1 Appointed 10 January 2012 and appointed Chairman of Audit Committee 9 May 2012 auditors remuneration and terms of engagement and make 2 Resigned as a Director and Chairman of Audit Committee 9 May 2012 recommendations in respect of their reappointment or removal: review the directors conicts of interest register and to agree Membership and meetings any amendments to previously approved conicts: During the year under review the Committee comprised of Andrew review regularly the Groups policy and quantum in respect of the Lynch as Chairman resigned 9 May 2012, Rita Clifton, Prof. Dr. Utho supply of non-audit services by the external auditors, such that Creusen, Tim How, Dharmash Mistry and Jock Lennox appointed relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit as Committee member on 10 January 2012 and Chairman on services, when taken as a proportion of the audit fee, is considered 9 May 2012, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
in addition to the nature of such services in order to preserve The remaining members served throughout the period under review.
the external auditors independence and objectivity: and monitor the results and effectiveness of arrangements under The biographical details of the current members of the Committee which employees can raise in confidence issues of concern areset out on page 45.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman relating to financial matters and internal controls.
of theCommittee meets the requirement for recent and relevant nancialexperience.
The Company Secretary and General Counsel The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually acts as Secretary totheCommittee.
by the Committee and then by the Board.
A copy of the terms of reference is available on the Groups corporate website.
The Committee met on four occasions during the period, and the members attendance record is shown above.
The Committees Attendance at meetings deliberations are reported by its Chairman to the following Board The Chairman of the Board, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance meeting and the minutes of eachmeeting are circulated to all Director, Group Financial Controller, Group Chief Accountant and members of theBoard.
Head of Tax, Director of Internal Audit and Risk, Company Secretary and General Counsel, Deputy Company Secretary and external auditors were invited by the Chairman of the Committee to attend meetings during the year.
The Group Treasurer also attended some meetings at the Committees request.
Each time the Committee convenes, it meets with external auditors without the presence of management.
In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to the services of the Group Finance Director and the Company Secretary and General Counsel, as well as access to external professional advice.
52 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Corporate Governance Key matters considered External auditors During the period, the Committee reviewed the following: The Committee, having considered the policies and procedures applied by the Group and the internal policies and representations of significant issues arising from reports of both the internal and Deloitte LLP, including the regular rotation of audit partner, remains external audits: satisfied with the auditors objectivity and independence and the Systems and controls in place at PIXmania following the identication effectiveness of the audit process.
Accordingly, the Committee has in prior years of historical under-estimated purchase accruals: the recommended to the Board that a resolution for their reappointment PIXmania Finance Director attended a meeting to personally brief be proposed at the AGM.
the Committee on the improvement plan and progress made, which is being closely monitored by Group Finance and Internal Audit: The policies and procedures and related training developed in response to the Bribery Act 2011: Progress towards achievement of PCI Payment Card Industry Jock Lennox Standard compliance: Chairman of the Audit Committee The working capital position of the Group and the management 21 June 2012 of its cash ow: The approach to developing risk management and the proposed plan of action for the year: Monitoring compliance activity in relation to the terms of the Groups nancing: The carrying value of certain assets in the Group, including goodwill: Tax matters, including the approach to the Senior Accounting officer sign off: A review of the Committees performance and terms of reference: The effectiveness and resources of Internal Audit: Developments in corporate governance: The annual audit fee, which is set out in note 3 to the Financial Statements, with due regard to the balance between audit and non-audit fees and the policy for approval of non-audit fees paid to the Groups auditors: A review of the Groups policy on the use of the auditors for non-audit services: A review of the Board Chairmans expenses: and A review of the annual calendar and meeting agenda.
An external review of the Committee was undertaken during the period as part of the main externally facilitated review of the Board.
Policy on the use of the auditors for non-audit services The Audit Committee has approved a policy for the use of external auditors for non-audit purposes.
The policyrequires that the auditors should not be asked to perform anyother services, unless a specic reason exists for why they should perform such work, such as a statutory requirement, for condentiality reasons or for their historical knowledge.
The policy specically excludes the external auditors from performing services which would impair their independence or put them in a position where they would be auditing their own work, such as bookkeeping or internal audit.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Dixons Retail plc 53
