40 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Corporate Governance For the year ended 31 October 2012 Effective governance is critical to Dominos success and our objective is to operate a practical system of control which is an integral part of the way the Group operates.
This report gives more detail about the Board and its Committees, how they work and how they fit within the Corporate Governance framework.
Corporate Governance Compliance Statement The Company fully supports the principles of corporate governance contained in The UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2010 the Code.
Except as stated in the section on dialogue with shareholders, the Peter Byrom Company has, throughout the year, been in compliance with the Chairman Code Provisions and has applied the principles set out in the Code.
An explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out in this report and in the reports of the Committees.
41 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Board Membership Key responsibilities Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors and determining strategy threeExecutive Directors setting controls and values monitoring performance Executive Management Committee Audit Committee Membership Key responsibilities Membership Key responsibilities three Executive Directors implementing strategy set t hree Non-Executive the integrity of financial and six senior executives by Board Directors reporting supervising operational auditor arrangements performance internal controls and risk management For more detailed information on the Audit Committee, please see page 45 Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Membership Key responsibilities Membership Key responsibilities one Executive Director monitoring risk t hree Non-Executive policy for remuneration of and six senior executives management policy and Directors Executive Directors process implementation of identifying significant risks remuneration policy For more detailed information on the Remuneration Committee, please see page 51 Nomination Committee Membership Key responsibilities Chairman, three Noncomposition of the Board Executive Directors, s uccession planning Group Managing Director evaluation of Board effectiveness For more detailed information on the Nomination Committee, please see page 49 42 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Corporate Governance continued Board overview Independence The Board is responsible for creating the framework within which the It is essential that the Non-Executive Directors are independent so Group operates.
It devises strategy, ensures the required resources that they can carry out their duties objectively.
are available and sets controls and standards.
It also monitors performance, approves budgets and material initiatives and The Board believes that to be judged independent each Director commitments.
The section on How the Board Works below gives should be free from any relationship or connection which could more information about how these responsibilities are discharged.
affect his ability to discharge his responsibilities impartially.
In The specific matters which require the Boards decision are listed addition, each Director should have demonstrated a scrupulously in a formal schedule.
independent approach by conducting himself impartially in all matters relating to the Group, challenging the views of Some of the matters which require Board approval management and other Board members and by showing a willingness and ability to defend his own views.
Strategy and budget Accounts and dividends The Board reviews independence each year and has concluded that Changes in capital structure each of the Non-Executive Directors remains independent.
The Major new product programmes review takes into account the results of the performance evaluation Material contracts together with the factors listed in the Code.
The only one of these Major capital projects factors relevant to Domino is the length of service of Phil Ruffles who Major acquisitions and disposals has been on the Board since 2002.
Despite this length of service the Board has determined that no connection or relationship has arisen Board membership which affects Mr Ruffles independence.
He has continued to discharge Information about the Directors is given on pages 38 to 39.
The three his duties effectively and in a scrupulously independent manner.
Executive Directors have each worked for Domino in different senior management roles in the UK and abroad for more than 20 years.
The Terms of appointment and time commitment Chairman and four Non-Executive Directors have wide ranging The Non-Executive Directors are expected to spend approximately general business experience and also share between them extensive 20 days per year on Domino business.
This is split more or less equally specific experience in finance, operations, research and development between attendance at Board and Committee meetings on the and sales and marketing.
one hand and preparation and providing advice and assistance on the other.
Attendance How the Board works All Directors attended all Board meetings.
There are regular scheduled Board and Committee meetings throughout the year and ad hoc meetings may be held if necessary.
Chairman This year there were eight Board meetings including a two day The primary role of the Chairman is to provide leadership to the meeting in June to consider strategy.
The strategy review includes Board.
This is distinct from the role of the Group Managing Director a detailed consideration of emerging technologies relevant to whose primary role is to direct and promote the operation and Dominos business.
development of the Company within the framework set by the Board.
There is a formal document which has been agreed by the Board Some of the presentations given at the Strategy Meeting.
which sets out the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Group Managing Director.
New innovations and trends in core markets Plans for growth for key products Overview of digital printing 43 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 One Board meeting a year is generally held at an overseas subsidiary.
Conflicts of interest However, in order to save costs the Board visit to China scheduled Directors are required by law to avoid situations which give rise for this year was deferred.
In addition to the formal meetings the to actual or potential conflicts of interest with the Company unless Non-Executive Directors also attend other meetings either at the such a situation has been authorised by the Board.
The Company head office or at other companies within the Group in order to gain has adopted and followed a procedure under which Directors must a better understanding of the business and to provide advice.
declare actual or potential conflicts as they arise and the Board reviews potential conflicts of interest arising from other posts held There is an annual work plan which lists the recurring items to be dealt by Directors on an annual basis.
with at each Board meeting and Committee meeting.
During the year authorisation has been given for potential conflicts of interest arising as a consequence of other positions held by some Extract from work plan Directors.
No actual conflicts of interest arising in respect of specific September arrangements or transactions have been declared to the Board.
Interim Management Statement Review potential conflicts of interest In determining whether to authorise conflicts of interest only those Review Bribery Act compliance Directors who have no interest in the matter may make the decision and they must act in good faith in the manner most likely to promote October the Companys success.
Budget Non-Executive Directors fees Dialogue with shareholders The Company actively seeks to enter into dialogue with institutional November shareholders and holds regular meetings with them.
In order to assist Review internal controls and risk management Non-Executive Directors to develop an understanding of the views Review insurance of major shareholders, reports are made of meetings with such Consider matters to be raised at AGM shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director has not attended meetings with a range of major shareholders as suggested by Code December provision E. I. I.
The Board considers that Sir Mark Wrightson has a Full year results good understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders Annual report and such attendance was unnecessary.
The Directors receive detailed Board papers before each meeting.
The Company also uses the Annual General Meeting as an These include routine reports on the performance of the business and opportunity for communication with private shareholders.
All explanatory papers on any matters for Board decision.
Standard Directors attend the meeting and are available to answer questions.
formats have been developed for the reports to make it easy to track After the formal business of the AGM shareholders have the progress and ascertain key facts.
In addition to written reports opportunity to meet with the Directors to discuss any matters presentations are also given to the Board.
Internal controls Topics of some of the presentations given to the Board during the year Internal control compliance statement The acquisitions of Graph-Tech AG and PostJet Systems Ltd Progress on the TEN Media project The Directors acknowledge their overall responsibility for the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
They have established a system that is designed to provide reasonable A detailed agenda is prepared for each meeting to make sure there is but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss sufficient time allocated to deal with all issues.
The agendas allow time and to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve for questioning and discussion about reports and presentations.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, Chairman and Non-Executive Directors generally meet the evening evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group that has before the Board meeting to discuss significant agenda items.
been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report.
The process is regularly reviewed by Formal minutes are kept of each meeting.
As well as documenting the Board and accords with the revised Turnbull guidance.
Steps decisions these minutes also record items identified by the Board for continue to be taken to embed internal control further into the further review.
operations of the business and to deal with any issues that come to the Boards attention.
The Directors have reviewed the The Board operates in an open manner and constructively scrutinises effectiveness of the system of internal control.
the performance of management in meeting objectives.
The Chairman ensures each Director has the opportunity to ask questions and express his views.
44 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Corporate Governance continued Financial control Compliance The key internal financial controls that were in operation during the The Company has a Group policy on standards of conduct and year were: business ethics and a separate anti-bribery policy.
Both documents are available on the website.
Financial reporting All operating units complete formal business plans for the year.
Each There is a detailed schedule of delegated authority designed to ensure month, the unit produces written reports in a defined format on its that all material transactions are considered at the appropriate level performance against these plans and provides updated business within the Group and are subject to review by the head office legal forecasts.
The reports and forecasts are reviewed by the Executive department.
All subsidiaries have access to local lawyers and the head Directors and significant issues are reported to the Board.
Accounting policies and procedures Risk management Detailed accounting policies and procedures are in place.
Written There is a risk management sub-committee chaired by Andrew confirmation of compliance with the policies and procedures is Herbert, the Group Finance Director, which is required to meet obtained from local management.
There is a formal internal audit at least quarterly.
The role of the sub-committee is to: process to verify the application of Group policies and procedures and to confirm that there is an effective process of management and promote effective identification and management of risk throughout control within the business.
Internal audits are carried out by suitably the Group: qualified and experienced staff who have no current connection with maintain a risk register identifying significant risks, risk control the operation being audited.
measures and responsibility for control measures: review and confirm that all significant risks have been identified and Security of the Groups computer systems suitable control measures adopted: The operation of the Group relies on financial and management monitor implementation of risk control measures for all significant information processed by, and stored on, computer systems.
Controls risks: and and procedures have been established to protect the security and ensure all subsidiaries operate an effective risk management process.
integrity of data held on these systems, with standby arrangements in the event of computer failure for the major systems.
Tests are A senior manager is given responsibility for devising and implementing conducted on an annual basis to assess the security of the systems.
control measures for each significant risk.
The manager is required to provide a quarterly report to the sub-committee on the status of Treasury implementation of control measures to manage that risk.
The Treasury function operates under specific guidelines set down by the Board and regular reports are made to the Board.
The sub-committee reports to the Executive Management Committee which in turn reports to the Board.
A formal risk management review Capital investment of each subsidiary is conducted as part of the internal audit The Company has defined procedures for the review and control programme.
Monthly reports to the Executive Directors submitted by of capital expenditure.
subsidiaries and business units cover risk control issues relevant to the particular subsidiary or business unit.
Operational controls All Domino businesses are required to operate in accordance with There are individual risk registers in each of the key functional areas detailed, documented standards and procedures which cover all of the Group and in each of the operating businesses.
material aspects of their operations.
Compliance with these standards is assessed by internal and external review.
There has been no significant control failure during the year.
