45 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Audit Committee Chairmans introduction I am pleased to present the Audit Committees report which describes our work during the past year.
The Committee has continued to focus on its core responsibilities of monitoring the integrity of financial statements, overseeing risk management and internal controls and supervising the external audit.
Looking ahead, the Committee has considered the recent changes to the Corporate Governance Code and FRC Guidance which introduce new reporting requirements and recommend that the external audit should be put out to tender at least every 10 years.
The Company intends to comply fully with these new recommendations and the Committee will advise the Board on implementation.
The Committee is also mindful of the increasing need for disclosure of information regarding the Groups environmental impact and we will be working to introduce arrangements for the verification of the required disclosures.
Sir Mark Wrightson Audit Committee Chairman Membership Sir Mark Wrightson Chairman and member with financial Sir Mark Wrightson experience, Chris Brinsmead, Sir David Brown Phil Ruffles stood Chairman of Audit down from the Committee on 15 March 2012.
Committee Key responsibilities the integrity of the financial statements audit arrangements review of internal controls and risk management The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on Dominos website.
com Attendance All Committee members attended each meeting.
46 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Audit Committee continued Assessment of auditor Split of audit and non-audit fees The Committee is required to assess the qualifications, expertise, The chart below sets out the level of audit and non-audit fees payable resources and independence of the external auditor and the to Deloitte during the year ended October 2012. objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process.
This assessment was made during the year on the basis of materials provided by the auditor, Fees payable to Deloitte 000 the Committees own appraisal of the performance of the auditor and the views of the senior management team.
The criteria used for this Q Audit of the Company's annual accounts assessment were: Q Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 400 Q Audit-related assurance services 300 Q Taxation compliance services delivery of a thorough and efficient global audit in compliance with Q Other taxation advisory services agreed timescales: 200 Q Corporate finance services provision of prompt, accurate and clear advice on technical issues Q Other services 100 and best practice: a high level of professionalism and technical expertise consistently Total Total demonstrated by all audit staff: and non-audit fees audit fees strict adherence to independence policies and regulatory requirements.
The Committee also ensures that the partners in charge of the Independence of auditor audit are changed every five years and checks that the relationship In order to maintain independence of the auditor the Company has a between the auditor and management does not impair the policy that, except for tax compliance work and acquisition due auditors independence.
diligence, the auditor will not be engaged to provide non-audit services without the consent of the Committee.
The Committee considers Auditor tenure that it is cost effective to use the auditor for tax and due diligence Deloitte has been the Companys auditor since 1993 and there has work because of their expertise in these areas coupled with their been no tender held for audit services during that time.
The in-depth knowledge of the business.
Committee considers that the auditors knowledge of the Groups business and systems gained through experience significantly The Committee would only authorise the engagement of the contributes to the rigour and effectiveness of the audit process.
auditor for other work if it was satisfied that it would be beneficial However, the Committee is aware of the recent changes to the FRC to do so and the nature and extent of the work would not impair Guidance to Audit Committees regarding the frequency of audit auditor independence.
The Committee intends to comply fully with the guidance and will put the audit out to tender within the next three years.
During the year Deloitte has provided the following non-audit services: Meetings Audit-related assurance services The Committee met twice during the year.
Representatives of the Taxation compliance services auditor including the partner responsible for the Domino audit Taxation advisory services attended both meetings.
The Executive Directors also attended the Due diligence services Committee meetings by invitation but at each meeting the Committee Other services minor took the opportunity to speak with the auditor without the Executive Directors being present.
The following table lists the standing agenda No work was carried out on a contingency fee basis.
items which have been dealt with by the Committee: As part of its annual assessment of the independence of the auditor the Committee considered whether the provision of non-audit services impaired independence.
The Committee concluded that the amount and nature of non-audit work undertaken by the auditor did not impair their independence.
The Committee has received confirmation from the auditor that a separate partner is used to supervise tax compliance services and the tax compliance work is subject to audit to ensure it is materially accurate.
47 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Meeting Date Standing Agenda Items The Committee considered a report by the auditor benchmarking Dominos financial statements against those produced by other UK June Review half year financial statement listed companies and making recommendations for change.
The before consideration by the Board.
Committee has adopted the report recommendation to include a Approve the audit proposal covering summary of key risks and uncertainties and additional accounting terms of engagement of auditor, policy notes in future interim statements.
remuneration and the nature and scope of the audit.
Audit risks Assess the qualifications, expertise, The audit reports highlighted key audit risks for consideration by the resources and independence of the Committee.
These are areas where a judgement must be made on external auditor and the objectivity and the accounting treatment applied.
During the year the Committee effectiveness of the audit process.
considered the accounting treatment to be applied in a range of areas Committee to meet with auditor including goodwill impairment, investment valuation and deferred without Executive Directors consideration liability.
The Committee concluded that the treatment being present.
Review Audit Committee terms of reference and make recommendations Control environment to the Board.
The audit reports also made recommendations for improvements in the control environment.
These recommendations were considered by the Committee and, where appropriate, action has been taken to December Review full year preliminary statement address them.
One of the recommendations was that training on the and draft announcement before UK Bribery Act should be provided to a wider range of employees.
As consideration by the Board.
a result, the Company has developed an internet based training course Review financial controls, audit report which all subsidiary General Managers and sales and purchasing staff and management response.
have been required to complete in addition to their previous training.
Review letter of representation before approval by the Board.
Nature and scope of audit Review statement on internal control At its meeting in June, the Committee considered the scope of the and risk management for report and forthcoming full year audit and approved the fee payable.
The accounts prior to approval by the Board.
Committee seeks to ensure that the design of the audit will be Assess scope and effectiveness of comprehensive, risk based and cost effective.
Domino has operations systems established by management to of varying sizes in many different countries and one of the challenges identify and manage risk.
in designing the audit programme is to ensure that the audit of the Review policy on appointment of auditor overseas subsidiaries is conducted effectively.
In order to do this to provide non-audit services.
Domino uses a combination of members of the auditors UK team Review the effectiveness of the internal with experience in the relevant country and members of locally based audit function and programme.
The following factors are used to assess the extent to internal audit function is adequately which audit procedures are carried out locally: resourced and has appropriate standing within the Company.
centralisation of accounting function Review internal audit arrangements.
particular risks to which local operation is exposed Review procedures for detecting, control activities performed centrally monitoring and managing the risk of results of analytical procedures undertaken centrally fraud including the method by which the period of time since the local operation was last visited staff can raise concerns.
and the results of the audit work performed the requirement to issue separate financial statements and Financial statements audit reports.
The Committee reviewed the full and half year financial statements and the reports of the auditor on these statements.
Where overseas members of the auditors group are used to audit overseas operations, the auditor is required to obtain assurance over As well as reporting on the financial statements themselves the the adequacy of the procedures used.
Such assurance is obtained in a auditors reports covered Dominos control environment and the number of ways including: reliability of the management reporting process.
They also provided information on changes in accounting policies and financial reporting involvement in the planning process which might have an impact on Domino.
obtaining clearance reports reviews of key issues and working papers v isits.
During the year the Group audit partner visited Dominos subsidiary in India and senior members of the audit team visited Domino subsidiaries in the US and China.
48 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Audit Committee continued Risk management review The Group Financial Controller, who heads the internal audit function, The Committee reviewed the scope and effectiveness of systems to has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of the Committee.
identify and address financial and non-financial risk.
The review was based on the reports produced by the Risk Management Committee The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit which identified the key risks, risk control measures and the programme and concluded that it is effective.
implementation status of risk control measures.
The report on page 22 provides further information on the risk management process.
The Committee regularly reviews its terms of reference and this year the terms have been changed so that the Committee is required to Internal audit meet at least once a year with the Group Financial Controller without The Group has an established internal audit process where trained the Executive Directors being present.
finance staff, unconnected with the entity being audited, carry out internal audits according to a defined procedure and an annual Whistle-blowing programme.
Self audit questionnaires are also used.
The Committee monitors the Groups whistle-blowing policy andthis year has overseen the introduction of a dedicated email The Committee reviewed the programme for the year and received address to enable staff anywhere in the Group to raise issues monthly reports on progress.
The reports included a summary of directly with head office.
Emails sent to this address are initially outstanding points raised by the audits.
The summary was reviewed received by the Group HR Director and the Company Secretary regularly to check that points raised by the audits were addressed.
Any concerns raised are reported to the Audit Committee.
Summaries of internal audit reports were circulated to all members of the Committee and full reports were available on request.
