49 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Nomination Committee Membership Peter Byrom Chairman, Sir Mark Wrightson, Chris Brinsmead, Sir David Brown and Nigel Bond Phillip Ruffles stood down from the Committee on 15 March 2012.
Key responsibilities the composition of the Board succession plans for appointments to the Board and the senior executive team evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees The full terms of reference are available on the website.
com Attendance All Committee members attended each meeting.
Board composition The Committee keeps the membership of the Board under review to ensure it has the required range of skills, knowledge and experience.
One meeting was held to specifically consider whether changes in the environment in which Domino operated raised a requirement for additional skills and experience.
Peter Byrom Diversity Chairman of The Board understands the benefits of diversity and is committed to Nomination equal opportunities for all.
A copy of Dominos equal opportunities policy Committee is available on the website.
com In selecting candidates for Board appointments the Committee will assess the then current make up of the Board and take this into account in devising the requirement specification for the recruitment.
Selection for Board appointments will be made on merit against this objective and not by reference to a prescribed quota.
The posts of Group Operations Director, Group Technical Director and Group Human Resources Director are held by women.
These are not main Board appointments but form part of the next tier of management below the Board.
The holders of these posts sit on the Executive Management Committee and comprise one third of its membership.
During the regular annual review of the Committees terms of reference it was agreed that the terms should be amended to specifically require the Committee to consider diversity including gender in evaluating the composition of the Board and in identifying suitable candidates for Board appointments.
50 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Nomination Committee continued Procedure for appointment of new Directors Succession planning There is an established procedure for the appointment of a new The Committee receives detailed reports on succession planning.
This requires that a detailed job specification is drawn up senior posts are graded according to the impact and likelihood of the and a recruitment consultancy engaged to identify suitable candidates.
post holder leaving the Company.
Where possible, suitable successors Candidates are assessed against this specification and selected are identified together with the training and experience required by candidates are interviewed by members of the Nomination Committee, the successor to take over the post.
other Directors and senior managers.
The final appointment decision is made by the full Board.
Following appointment, a tailored induction Where no immediate successor is identified the report includes details programme will be put in place to ensure the new Director rapidly of interim arrangements to be adopted until a successor is found.
gained the necessary knowledge to discharge his or her duties.
Following this years review of succession planning, the Committee requested more information about the readiness of identified Evaluation successors to take over specific roles.
For the first time an external facilitator, Independent Audit Ltd was used to assist in the evaluation of performance of the Board and its The Company has also introduced a graduate recruitment programme committees.
The evaluation was based on questionnaires and and a development programme for high flyers to ensure there is a conducted using Independent Audits web based tool Thinking Board.
pool of talent available to meet the leadership needs of the Company Members of the Board answered a series of questions designed to over the longer term.
provide thorough consideration of a range of topics including strategy, risk, culture and external relations.
Meetings The Committee met three times during the year.
Independent Audit Ltd produced a report based on the responses.
The report highlighted some issues for further consideration in particular: the nature of the strategic review process the mechanism for capturing messages and opinions from inside the business.
These points are now under review to decide what action is required to address them.
Independent Audit Ltd has no other relationship with the Company.
The Chairman appraised the individual performance of the Directors and the Non-Executive Directors met under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director to appraise the performance of the Chairman.
