Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements Corporate governance Chairmans Overview How did we comply with the Governance Code?
The principal corporate governance rules applying to UK Dear Shareholder companies listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE for the On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our corporate year ended 30 December 2012 are contained in the financial governance report for the financial year ended 30 December 2012.
Reporting Councils FRC UK Corporate Governance Code The purpose of my report is to provide a clear and accessible adopted in June 2010 the Code and the UK Financial Services explanation of what governance means to Dominos in terms of its Authority FSA Listing Rules, which require companies listed impact on decision making in the operation of our business.
on the Main Market of the LSE to describe in their annual report their approach to corporate governance in terms of adherence As a Board and as a Company, we believe that corporate governance to the Codes main principles and also non-compliance with any is more than just a set of guidelines: rather it is a framework which of the Codes provisions.
The FRC published a revised version underpins the core values for running the business in which we of the Code in September 2012 Revised Code that applies to allbelieve.
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012, so Effective governance supports the long term success of Dominos whilst the Revised Code does not apply to the Company for and this is best realised through effective leadership, collaboration the year ended 30 December 2012, the Company has decided and the desire to continually improve.
With our refreshed and to adopt a number of the additional provisions in the strengthened Board, we have concentrated on ensuring that our Revised Code.
corporate governance framework actually translates into meaningful On the basis of reporting against these two elements of the practice at all levels within the business and across all territories.
Code, shareholders should be able to make a judgement of the As I said in my introduction to this report last year, we recognise the Companys corporate governance positioning in relation to the real benefits of greater board diversity and it has been particularly Code which represents best practice.
The Code and Revised pleasing to see this materialise in terms of the skills, experience and Code is available under the heading Corporate Governance robust challenge which emerged during the year under review at www.
following the changes to the composition of the Board in late 2011.
The Board considers that the Company has complied in all This was coupled with Lance Batchelor having his first full year as respects with the provisions of the Code for the year ended our Chief Executive Officer, and I believe we now have a balanced, 30 December 2012. engaged and committed Board, who will and do challenge all The information required by DTR 7.1 is set out in the Audit aspects of your business.
We continue to work hard to develop our Committee section of this report on pages 44 and 45 and the effectiveness as a team and to provide appropriate support to the information required by DTR 7.2 is set out in this report, other Executive team as they drive and deliver our strategy to become the than that required under DTR 7.2.
6 which is set out in the largest pizza brand in each of our territories.
Directors report on pages 32 to 36.
I am pleased to report that the Company is now in full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and that the required regulatory and governance standards are reflected throughout this report.
However, we will not rest on our laurels.
On your behalf, as our shareholders, we will continue to work hard to improve further our governance and board performance.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 37 n o i t a n i m o N A u Corporate governance continued monitoring risk to ensure that the Groups risk profile is aligned Leadership with its strategic objectives: The Board and the Committees During the year, the Board, supported by its committees, has development of the current and future leadership team across focused on: all territories so that it can execute strategy effectively: and formulating and driving strategy for example the acquisition of the oversight of the careful but optimal management of the brand Switzerland business and the development of a five year growth for our customers, franchisee partners and our shareholders.
plan for the German marketplace : The Remuneration Committee The Nomination Committee Manages the process to advise and Determines the terms and conditions of make recommendations to the Board on employment, remuneration and benefits matters relating to the Boards of the Executive Directors, the Chairman membership and Committee and senior executives and to advise the appointments, including reviewing Board on the Groups remuneration succession plans.
strategy and framework to recruit, retain and reward senior executives.
BOARD Audit Committee Assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities for the integrity of the financial statements, for the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and regulatory and financial risk management and for monitoring the objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors and to keep under review the need for an internal audit function.
Membership and attendance for the period ended 30 December 2012 Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee meetings Number of meetings held 3 2 3 10 Executive Directors Lance Batchelor 10 Lee Ginsberg 10 Non-Executive Directors Stephen Hemsley 10 Colin Halpern 2 10 Michael Shallow 3 2 3 10 Nigel Wray 9 John Hodson 2 2 2 9 Syl Saller 1 3 9 Helen Keays 2 9 Syl Saller was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 23 October 2012.
38 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 d i t n o i t a r e n u m e R Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements We have a diversity of skills, backgrounds and experience within Effectiveness our independent Non-Executive Directors and they play a key The Chairman and CEO governance role in protecting shareholders interests and As required by the Code, there is a clear division of responsibilities complement the skills and experience of the Executive Directors.
set out in writing between the Board and the Executive team and All of the independent Non-Executive Directors are tasked with between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
ensuring Board and Company matters are effectively challenged The Chairman leads the Board, ensuring its effectiveness whilst from a range of external perspectives.
taking into account the interests of other stakeholders and promoting high standards of governance.
Our Non-Executive Directors bring independent judgment to the Boards deliberations, have a mindset to do what is right for the The Chief Executive Officer has day to day responsibility for business, and fulfil the following key roles: operations and the performance of the Group, ensuring the Oversight of risk management and internal control: delivery of the strategic and financial objectives once they have been agreed by the Board, and for effective communication to Constructive challenge to the Executive Directors, and the employees and shareholders.
monitoring of Executive performance: The Chairman meets with the Chief Executive Officer, off-site, at Support of the Executive team in the shaping and delivery of the least once a month and regularly meets the Chief Financial Officer strategic goals of the business: and members of senior management.
The Chairman also has separate meetings with the Non-Executive Directors.
Protection of shareholder and stakeholder interests: Optimisation of shareholder return and protection of shareholder Board composition and independence assets: and During the year under review, the Board comprised two Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors, four of whom were Ensure the Board is able to work together effectively and make deemed to be independent under the Code Michael Shallow, John maximum use of its time.
Hodson, Syl Saller and Helen Keays.
There have been no changes The structure of the Board and the integrity of the individual to the Board in the year under review.
Directors ensure that no single individual or group dominates the The success of the Dominos business has been underpinned by decision making process.
There is a common purpose of promoting entrepreneurial drive and focus and we believe that the size and the overall success of the Company with a unified vision of the experience of the Board is appropriate for the current and future definitions of success, the core strategic principles, and the business model.
However, we recognize that board development is understanding, alignment and mitigation of risk.
a continuing process and through the Nomination Committee we will regularly review the evolving requirements for governance of The core focus during the year under review was the settling in of the business, not least in the light of the growing international the new Chief Executive Officer.
Following the retirement of Chris nature of the Group.
Moore after 21 years in the business, Lance Batchelor has had a smooth transition into the role of Chief Executive Officer from the The entrepreneurial theme above is epitomized by Colin Halpern start of the 2012 financial year.
and Nigel Wray who have served with distinction on the Board of From 2011, the Board decided to implement provision B.
7.1 of the Company for over thirteen years.
Due to Nigel Wrays material the Code so at the 2012 AGM each Director retired voluntarily shareholding in the Company and, in Colin Halperns case, because and submitted themselves for re-election.
All were successfully of his previous executive role, neither Colin Halpern nor Nigel Wray re-elected.
are considered an independent non-executive director for Code purposes.
However, we strongly believe that both Colin Halpern and Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are set out on Nigel Wray bring invaluable knowledge, entrepreneurial flair and page 58.
The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment business experience to the Board that continues to be hugely which are available for inspection at the registered office of important to the continued success of the Group.
Terms of reference for all Board committees, which are At Dominos, we are unmistakably proud of the diversity in our approved by the Board and reviewed annually, are available system and both we and our franchisees recognize the benefits that this brings.
Both we and our franchisees try to develop talent in our on the Companys website.
respective businesses and encourage people to develop themselves Board responsibilities and succeed regardless of gender, race or any other characteristic.
The Board held ten meetings during the last year together with As a result, in addition to the two female Non-Executive Directors on a Strategy Offsite Meeting.
The Board is responsible for setting the Board, four of the eleven UK Leadership team are female and a large percentage of store managers and assistant managers are and approving the strategy and key policies of the Group and for female.
We are of the view that it is in the interests of the Company monitoring the progress in achieving these objectives through and the communities in which our franchisees operate that together regular reporting and discussion on financial performance, we recruit and develop the very best people from the widest pool material operational issues and risk.
The formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board remains The Board recognizes the diversity challenges set by Lord Davies unaltered and can be found in the Investor Relations section of in his Women on Boards report, but rather than set any target, the the Groups website www.
com Board feels that the challenge has been directly addressed through the Board changes in 2011. with effect from 31 January 2012 www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 39 Corporate governance continued Towards the end of 2012, the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Senior Independent Director Committees each appraised the performance of their Committee Michael Shallow was the Senior Independent Director throughout and have confirmed that each Committee continues to operate the year.
Michael was selected in May 2008 for the role because effectively see pages 43 and 44 for further details.
The Remuneration of his extensive knowledge and experience both as an executive Committee also reviews Executive Directors performance when it and non-executive director.
Michael chairs the Audit Committee, reviews remuneration packages each year.
In summary, the Board and until 22 October 2012, chaired the Nomination Committee is satisfied that the arrangements for review and appraisal of the since that date he has reverted to being a member, and is a performance of the Board, its committees and individual Directors member of the Remuneration Committee.
In his role as Senior Independent Director, Michael is responsible for the appraisal of the Chairman and is available to shareholders Relations with shareholders if they have concerns which are not resolved through the normal The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer carry out channels or for which such contact is inappropriate.
extensive engagement with analysts, institutional shareholders and potential shareholders to ensure that there is a strong relationship The independent Non-Executive Directors meet at least and to understand their views on material issues relating to the twice during the year, under the leadership of the Senior business.
Feedback on all such meetings is provided to the Board in Independent Director.
summary form, together with independent feedback from investors Board effectiveness evaluation sought by the Companys broker.
All brokers notes are circulated to Following on from an external evaluation in 2010, in 2011, the the entire Board in order that the Board maintains an understanding Board undertook an internal formal evaluation of its own of market perceptions of the Company.
In addition, the Chairman performance and that of its committees and individual Directors.
and John Hodson meet with major shareholders, principally relating The evaluation was prepared and carried out by the Chairman and to remuneration and governance issues.
the Company Secretary and built on the key evaluation themes The Senior Independent Director and the other Non-Executive that arose from the 2010 external evaluation exercise, with questions Directors are available for meetings with shareholders if posed to assess how the Board was progressing against the areas sorequested.
The Companys AGM offers the opportunity to all shareholders to The Nomination Committee has recently recommended that the communicate directly with the entire Board.
Notice of the AGM and Company invest in an external evaluation during 2013 to review related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its committees before the meeting.
All proxy votes received in respect of each and each Director during 2012 via an external facilitator, MBS resolution at the AGM are counted and the balance for and against, Limited, the independent governance consultancy who conducted and any votes withheld are indicated.
The results are announced the last external evaluation in 2010 and therefore is well placed at the meeting and published on the Companys website after the to review the Boards progress over the last two years against the meeting, which also contains a host of up to date information outputs of the original evaluation exercise.
An important part of on the Company for shareholders and other interested parties.
the review will be establishing criteria against which the future performance of each member of the Board and the Board as a whole can be reviewed.
In addition to the above process, the Senior Independent Director meets with the Non-Executive Directors both formally and informally throughout the year and uses a tailored questionnaire to assess the Chairmans performance and effectiveness.
This review also takes into account the views of the Executive Directors.
In 2012, the conclusion of the review was that the Chairman continues to provide effective leadership and management of the Board and ensures accountability of the Executive Directors.
40 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report C Cor orp por ora at te e g go ov five er rn na anc nce e Directors remuneration report Financial statements Management of the Group Executive Committee Members 1 Lance Batchelor, Chief Executive Officer Chairman 2 Lee Ginsberg, Chief Financial Officer 3 Adam Batty, Company Secretary & General Counsel 4 Ian Douglas, Procurement Director 1 2 3 4 5 Simon Wallis, Sales and Marketing Director 6 Kerri Saunders, Operations Director 7 Jane Franks, HR Director 8 Michael Botha, Commercial Director 9 Andrew Emmerson, Business Development Director 5 6 7 8 10 Colin Rees, IT Director 11 Patricia Thomas, International Development Director retired 1 October 2012 12 Kory Spiroff, Germany Managing Director appointed 1 November 2012 9 10 11 12 Changes since 30 December 2012: On 28 January 2013, Mark Millar joined the Executive Committee and UK Leadership Team, replacing Adam Batty as Company Secretary and General Counsel with effect from 18 February 2013.
On 31 December 2012, Andrew Emmerson stepped down from the Executive Committee and UK Leadership Team.
Overview Activities The Executive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day The Committee meets weekly UK Leadership Team and monthly management of the Groups operations within the limits German and Swiss Leadership Teams.
The Committee has contained in the Boards delegation of authority and for delivering delegated certain tasks to the following operational sub-committees the Groups strategy.
The Committee effectively splits into three and receives regular updates from the chairman of each of them: geographic leadership teams, namely a UK and Irish leadership Germany Leadership Team Kory Spiroff comprising eight team, a German leadership team and a Swiss leadership team, members of Executive Committee who have direct involvement in although there is significant commonality of membership their specialist areas in the German business, meets monthly to between the territories.
In addition, the Committee has a oversee the running of the Germany business.
schedule of matters specifically reserved for its approval.
Switzerland Leadership Team Brian Trier Market Director Senior managers on the Committee receive an executive licence comprising seven members of the Executive Committee who have setting out their specific limits of authority in terms of entering direct involvement in their specialist areas in the Swiss business, into financial and other business commitments and they in turn meets monthly to oversee the running of the Swiss business.
are responsible for ensuring the specified process of delegation is followed in their departments.
Store Opening Committee Andrew Emmerson ensures stores are identified, acquired and opened in accordance with the Companys store opening plan.
Health & Safety Committee Adam Batty promotes the wellbeing and safety of our employees, franchisee employees and customers and minimizes the risk of prosecution and financial penalties.
Marketing Advisory Committee Simon Wallis comprising ten franchisees that have been elected to stand and represent the interests of franchisees in their area, the Committee is tasked with aligning on marketing strategy, promotional planning and execution as well as deployment of the National Advertising Fund.
There is also an Irish Marketing Advisory Committee.
On 24 September 2012 Brian Trier was appointed as Market Director for Switzerland and chairs the Switzerland Leadership Team.
Brian Trier is not a member of the Executive Committee.
Changes since 30 December 2012: From 31 December 2012, the UK Leadership Team also comprised the Head of Property Julia Poulson and Head of Franchising Georgina Wald, who are not members of the Executive Committee and Mark Millar succeeded Adam Batty as Company Secretary & General Counsel with effect from 18 February 2013. www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 41 Corporate governance continued Governance in action Board responsibilities and processes Board achievements during the year Setting and approving the overall strategy of the Group Approval of key decisions Making and reviewing of major business decisions Acquisition of the Dominos Switzerland business, together with Monitoring of current trading against previously approved plans an option to acquire Austria as a territory Exercise of control by annual review of matters reserved for Further financing for franchisees the Board Redesign of the five-year strategic plan for Germany Changes to the Companys capital structure Approval of 2013 budget and operational plan Acquisitions Entry into two joint ventures with franchisees in the UK and two Significant contractual commitments in Germany Review of corporate governance arrangements Review of development targets Review of major risks and mitigation strategies Strengthening the independent challenge on the Board Review and control of capital expenditure Understanding the need for and developing the next generation of senior managers within the business Oversight of the development of the new Chief Executive Officer Decision making Information and professional development Our governance structure aims to enable appropriate, effective The Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, regularly decision making with clear accountabilities and sets out how the discusses any development or training needs with individual business is managed and operated at all levels and across all Directors.
As a result, in the year under review, a number of territories.
It aims to ensure that the risk profile of the business individual training needs were identified and action was taken reflects the strategic objectives of the business, with the ultimate aim to address these needs.
of protecting the business from reputational or operational damage.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to attend one or two major franchisee events a year to gain further insight into In line with the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, the Board has the business.
clear procedures for Directors to formally disclose any actual or During 2012, the Non-Executive Directors spent additional time potential conflicts to the whole Board for authorisation as necessary.
within the business, visiting stores and meeting senior managers All new conflicts are required to be disclosed as and when they at the Companys head office.
There is an annual review of conflicts disclosed and Newly appointed Directors receive a personalised induction authorisations given.
The register of Directors conflicts is maintained program, tailored to their experience, background and particular by the Company Secretary.
areas of focus, which is designed to ensure that they have the Matters requiring Board and Committee approval are generally the necessary knowledge and understanding of the Group and its subject of a proposal by one or more of the Executive Directors or activities.
The program will usually include an overview of the the Company Secretary and are submitted to the Board, together business model and the Board processes, meetings with the with supporting documentation, as part of the Board or Committee Executive Committee, senior managers and major franchisees, papers.
At each Board meeting, the Board pack includes an update store visits and briefings on key governance and from the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, financial compliance issues.
There are presentations on the The Board also recognizes the importance of ongoing training and Companys operations and regular discussions on strategy, education, particularly regarding new laws and regulations which marketing, franchisee profitability and relationships, employee are relevant to the Group.
Such training or education is typically engagement and social and governance matters.
provided and kept under review by the Company Secretary, who is responsible for Director induction and the on-going training of At each Board meeting, a senior manager is invited to make a Directors.
During the year under review, training was provided in presentation to the Board and there are a number of formal and matters including health and safety, the Bribery Act and the informal social occasions each year which enable the Board Groups compliance procedures, changes to the Code and members to meet senior management.
competition compliance and merger control.
These training All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary programs have also been shared, as appropriate, with the UK and may take independent professional advice at the Companys Leadership Team to ensure that there is the necessary knowledge expense.
The Company Secretary reports to the Chairman in respect and support right across senior management in the Group.
of his core duties to the Board.
The removal of the Company The Company provides insurance cover and indemnities for its Secretary is a matter specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
Directors and officers, although no cover exists in the event Directors Any questions shareholders may have on corporate governance or officers are found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
matters, policies or procedures should be addressed to the Company Secretary.
42 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements Nomination Committee Syl Saller Chairman Members Syl Saller Chairman appointed 23 October 2012 Colin Halpern Michael Shallow Chairman until 22 October 2012 John Hodson The Company Secretary attends meetings in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
Chairmans overview Activities The principal purpose of the Committee is to lead the process of The Committee met on two occasions during the year and the assessing the skills and attributes needed by the Board to function Committee considered: effectively and discharge its responsibilities.
It also reviews the the reappointment of all Directors retiring at the 2012 AGM: structure, composition and size of the Board to ensure that the the findings of the 2011 Board evaluation exercise that took Board continues to develop and remains effective over time.
place in February 2012: After an unusually busy 2011, 2012 has been a more consideration and recommendation of an external evaluation straightforward year for the Committee, meeting to review the exercise for 2012, to be carried out in February 2013: ongoing shape and capability of the Board and its committees.
the strengthening of the Committee by the appointment of Syl We also as a Committee helped to oversee the successful transition Saller as new chair of the Committee: of Lance Batchelor from Deputy Chief Executive Officer to Chief Board Committee memberships following the Board changes Executive Officer.
in 2011: the support of Lance Batchelor in his first full year of being We regularly appraise Board and senior management succession Chief Executive Officer: and over the longer term and continue to focus on ensuring we have Board succession over the longer term.
the optimum mix of Directors to lead and support the business across all territories for the future, informed by considerations of the diversity in terms of experience, relevant knowledge and gender.
Remuneration Committee John Hodson Chairman Members John Hodson Chairman Michael Shallow Syl Saller At all times during the financial year, the Remuneration Committee comprised only independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Board, the Vice-Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer often attend meetings, although some part of every meeting is dedicated to discussion among only the Committee members.
The Company Secretary attends in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
Chairmans overview Activities The principal purpose of the Committee is to assess and The Committee met formally three times this year but, in addition, recommend to the Board executive remuneration arrangements spent considerable time outside of formal meetings discussing which are used to attract, retain and motivate the Groups senior Committee matters.
Further details about the Remuneration managers and provide suitable alignment between individual Committee, its activities during the year and an explanation of remuneration and individual contribution to the Groups overall how it applies the Directors remuneration principles of the Code performance.
and other applicable rules and regulations governing remuneration are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 52 Significant work was carried out in late 2011 and early 2012 to 64. relating to the adoption of the new long term incentive plan that was approved at the 2012 AGM.
The Committee has spent time The Committee received training and or briefings this year on during 2012 appraising the likely impact of the new executive a range of areas, including BIS reporting requirements and remuneration disclosure proposals published by the Department Association of British Insurers ABI principles.
for Business, Innovation and Skills BIS, which come into force in their final form from the end of 2013, applying to reports published in 2014 and beyond.
As can be seen from the Directors remuneration report set out on pages 52 to 64, we are adopting early certain aspects of the new disclosures.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 43 Corporate governance continued Accountability audit committee report and actions Michael Shallow Chairman Members Michael Shallow Chairman John Hodson Helen Keays In accordance with the Code, Michael Shallow, is identified as having recent and relevant financial experience.
All other members have an appropriate understanding of financial matters.
The Committee also has access to the Companys finance team and to its auditors and can seek further professional advice, at the Companys cost, as appropriate.
The meetings are regularly attended by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and his team and the external auditors.
The Company Secretary also attends in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
Chairmans overview Activities I am pleased to present the Companys first separate report to The Committee met three times this year to: shareholders on the work of the Audit Committee the Committee.
review all results, announcements and the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts, including half year results and interim In addition to monitoring the integrity of the financial statements management statements.
Inherent in this review was and announcements of the Group, the principal purpose of the consideration of the accounting principles, policies and Committee is to review the effectiveness of the Groups internal procedures adopted in the Groups financial statements, controls, and external audit in addition to providing assurance on including where necessary, challenging the judgments made the Groups risk management processes.
and the accompanying narrative when appropriate: In line with the evolving expectations of the Financial Reporting receive regular reports from the Chief Financial Officer, the Council, the Committee also determines that the Annual Report Financial Controller, the Audit Partner and the Company and Accounts contain fair, balanced and understandable Secretary on risk and compliance matters : information: and that there is an appropriate balance and alignment oversee the further development of the internal controls of financial and narrative reporting to enable shareholders to make testing framework: their assessment of the Company.
approve the auditors work plan for the Group and the Groups own annual controls testing plan: The Committee has had a very active year.
We acknowledged in assess the need for an internal audit function: our review of the Committees effectiveness in 2011 that in 2012 review emerging risks and material risk profile: we wanted to spend more time looking at internal controls and risk discuss the Companys tax strategy: and management, which the Committee and Board believe are review and monitor the external auditors independence and fundamental for the Company to achieve its strategic objectives, objectivity, consider the effectiveness of the audit process and and we have done that.
the re-appointment of the external auditors, approve the external As set out in the Assurance section below, the Committee feels the auditors remuneration.
Group has made good progress on internal controls systems during After lengthy debate, the Committee satisfied itself that there the year, resulting in better processes and greater ability to manage was appropriate resource allocation, and sufficient rigour and critical risks and to remedy control failings or weaknesses.
objectiveness in the internal control review and risk assessment As a Committee, building on the work done last year, we have processes to obviate the need at this time for an internal overseen a further detailed review of how strategic and operational auditfunction.
risk is identified, assessed and reported.
This led to further The Audit Committee also: modifications being made to the reporting of major financial and oversees the dedicated whistleblowing facility for all operational risks.
We have also helped to improve the frequency employees, which allows employees to raise concerns about and manner in which internal controls are operated, tested possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters: and disclosed.
and The Committee has regular private discussions with the auditors reviews fees being charged by Ernst & Young for audit and during the year with no management present, in order to potential non-audit services.
understand the auditors views on the control and governance environment and managements effectiveness therein.
External Auditors The effectiveness of the audit process carried out by the Companys external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young is an important aspect of the Committees confidence in the Companys approach to controls and risks and in the integrity of its financial reporting.
Their independence is evidenced through their robust challenge to management during the audit process.
Ernst & Youngs effectiveness enables the Committee to recommend their reappointment as external auditors for 2013.
There was no non-audit work carried out by the external auditors in the year under review.
44 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements All key business activities including franchising, marketing, There is a formal policy governing the conduct of non-audit procurement, production, distribution and information technology work by the auditors in line with the Auditing Practice Boards are controlled by the Executive Directors, with all activity being Ethical Standards.
organised within a defined structure built around responsibility Under this policy, any appointments in respect of non-audit and authority levels and a structured reporting framework.
The work require the prior approval of the Audit Committee within key features of the Groups internal controls financial and an established budget and non-audit work cannot be non-financial and risk management systems are: undertaken where there is an identifiable risk that the work of the individual from the external audit firm could conflict the latest iteration of the prioritised risk register which is or compromise the quality or independence of the audit.
regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee, Audit This prohibits the external auditors from providing certain Committee and Board: additional services to the Group such as bookkeeping, internal an internal controls testing framework approved by the audit, valuations and financial systems design and Committee at the start of the year and reported on at each implementation Committee meeting: Details of the audit fees for 2012 are given in note 6 to the defined authorisation levels over all departments in all territories financial statements.
as part of a comprehensive contracts authorisation and execution policy the Authority Policy : Accountability assurance a monthly reporting pack that is circulated in advance of each Focus on risk management and internal controls Board meeting which includes consolidated management Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, the accounts for each territory.
Each period, annual budgets and Groups risk management system is designed both to encourage forecasts are compared against actual performance: entrepreneurial spirit and also to provide assurance that risk is fully understood and managed.
daily statements of system sales and royalty income.
Rolling cashflow forecasts and forecast banking covenant compliance The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system is regularly tested: of risk management and internal control and for monitoring its effectiveness within the context of achieving the Groups objectives.
a system whereby all invoices presented for payment are reviewed by the Accounts Payable team in Finance to ensure Executive management is responsible for implementing and that they have been authorised in accordance with the Authority maintaining appropriate control systems and for reporting on Policy.
All on-line banking payments are authorised by two the effectiveness of these controls to the Audit Committee.
finance managers and the weekly invoice payment run is The Board acknowledges that such a system is designed to reviewed and approved by the Chief Financial Officer: manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the the financial reporting process includes control and reconciliation Groups business objectives and can only seek to provide processes which ensure there is an audit trail between the reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Groups operations in each territory and the consolidated misstatement or loss.
financial statements and describes the system and controls that The Groups brand and reputation is fundamental to its continued are to be applied.
A review of the consolidation and financial growth and success and therefore active management of statements is completed by management to ensure that the operational and other risks is seen as being critical in ensuring that financial performance and position of the Group are appropriately these are maintained as valuable assets.
recorded, together with the review of results, announcements and annual reports by the Audit Committee: There is an ongoing, embedded process across the business for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks.
annual business reviews with each franchisee to review operational standards, management and audited accounts, Risks are prioritised according to their expected likelihood of cashflow forecasts and general financial health, in addition to occurring and financial impact if they were to occur, and are then monthly monitoring of franchisee management accounts and categorized as either primary risks or secondary risks.
regular unannounced operational standards audits: This categorization allows senior management to really focus on a comprehensive system of health and safety training and those primary risks that are most pertinent real to the Groups compliance monitoring was re-launched during the year.
Best business, rather than risk having the key risks lost in the wider pool practice management tools are in place and regularly audited to of other risks.
ensure compliance and the elected health and safety committee Detailed mitigation strategies for all risks have been worked up and representatives meet regularly at each production facility: and are reviewed regularly by senior management and received by and the Group has in place an experienced insurance broker to reported on to the Audit Committee.
advise on and co-ordinate all insurance matters across the The register and the updating process for the register is managed Group both corporate insurance and the franchisee insurance by the Company Secretary who oversees the process at an program.
The Group regularly reviews both the type and amount operational level through the holding of quarterly meetings with the of external insurance that it buys, with guidance from its broker, risk owners on the Executive Committee.
bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its cost and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
The results are then reviewed by the Audit Committee twice during the year and at least annually by the Board, in order to assist with their annual assessments of all material internal controls.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 45 Corporate governance continued Accountability risk recognition and mitigation Principal risks and uncertainties Our approach to risk management Risk is an inherent part of doing business and the Board is fully committed to identifying, evaluating and monitoring significant risks facing the business.
It is important that risks are identified, assessed and prioritised in a timely manner and that the controls designed to manage such risks operate effectively and are tested regularly.
Our approach to risk management includes developing key business plans and policies relating to areas which are likely to have a severe impact on our business.
Each identified risk has a business owner who manages and reports on that particular risk to the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee assists the Board in the review of risk management processes and takes responsibility for designing the appropriate departmental specific internal control systems and policies with each business owner.
The Board is therefore able to feed emerging risks into the formulation and management of its strategic objectives.
As with any business, we face risks and uncertainties on a daily basis.
Below are the risks the Board considers to be of most significant risk to the Group in terms of preventing or restricting execution of our strategy, alongside details of our perception of the movement of each risk since the financial year ended 25 December 2011 and the impact each risk could have and the mitigating activities that we have put in place.
When reviewing and determining the Groups risks and uncertainties, particularly in terms of categorising each risk and uncertainty, the Directors consider, amongst other things, the business strategy and the current business environment alongside reviewing the general economical climate.
We recognise that other risks are still present and confirm they are managed accordingly but in this Annual Report we have made the decision to disclose only those risks of most concern to the business at the current time and those which have been the subject of most debate at recent Executive Committee, Audit Committee and Board meetings.
Arrows show movement of risk since 25 December 2011.
Level of risk remains unchanged Risk is new or has been re-classified during 2012 by the Board from a secondary risk to a primary principal risk External risks Risk description: Changes in the general economic Mitigation activities: On a regular basis we review, Detrimental climate, recession, increased levels of unemployment, in conjunction with our franchisees, our offering and economic price inflation, Government austerity measures and promotional strategy, including competitor activity, environment general pessimism about the economic outlook for the to flex the offering so as to ensure that the Dominos Consumer spending future can have a detrimental effect on consumer proposition for customers is the most compelling in confidence and therefore revenues.
the home delivery pizza market in terms of quality and value.
Impact: Reduced disposable income alongside all of the factors listed above could lead to a reduction in We believe that a number of prevailing trends actually consumers willingness to spend disposable income benefit our business, including a population with on buying fast food.
This could adversely affect our increasingly greater disposable incomes who are cash business and results of operations and trading rich and time poor and an increased trend of busier conditions could become challenging.
and more hectic lifestyles leaving less time for home cooking.
In terms of marketing power and therefore brand awareness, each store contributes a percentage of net sales to a national advertising fund which gives significant marketing spending power over 26 million in 2012 as well as investing heavily in local store marketing, so promotions can be adopted to suit each local customer base.
In recent years, the Group has moved away from having sole reliance on the economies of the UK and Republic of Ireland and now has exposure to a broader range of economies and markets.
46 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements Risk description: Existing or new competitors growing Mitigation activities: Considerable time and financial Competitor activity and operating their businesses more aggressively so investment is put into clearly differentiating the that the stores suffer reduced sales and or margin Dominos brand, i. e. using consumer insight to give erosion due to the commencement of a price war customers clear reasons to choose Dominos instead in the home delivery pizza market.
of competitors whilst continuing to monitor competitor activity and adapting our offering where necessary.
Impact: The impact of increased competitor activity could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability and also the profitability of our franchisees, which could result in a reduced willingness of franchisees to grow their businesses and which in turn could have an adverse impact on our future growth plans.
Risk description: A few of our franchisees have Mitigation activities: The Executive Directors and senior Commercial leverage reached considerable scale, so therefore there is management maintain a strong and close working of a large franchisee a risk that should these franchisees be allowed to relationship with each franchisee.
This allows for early expand further they could try and leverage off their identification of issues and enables resolutions to be size to try and gain preferential treatment and terms found as quickly as possible.
We also ensure that each from senior management.
Given our policy of treating and every franchisee has an individual growth plan that all franchisees equally, there could be a risk that sets out the agreed position on store openings for the should the larger franchisees not be satisfied with next three years and we maintain a strong pipeline of our unwillingness to give them preferential treatment, sites for newstores.
such franchisees could stop growing their Dominos businesses.
Impact: Should one of the largest franchisees become dissatisfied with our refusal to give them preferential terms, they may seek to invest in alternative business ventures and therefore there is the risk that their existing Dominos Pizza stores will suffer, as a result of less focus and lack of investment for growth.
In addition, the franchisee may stop opening new Dominos stores which could have an adverse impact on our growth plans.
Risk description: We are reliant on the continued Mitigation activities: All core suppliers are routinely put Failure of a critical operation of various supply contracts with third party through a financial risk assessment to monitor their supplier and cost of suppliers who provide raw materials.
A major supplier ongoing financial health.
Those suppliers found to be goods increases could, particularly in the current difficult economic or at risk are followed up with individually and monitored geo-political conditions, cease trading with little or no closely.
All have documented contingency plans that advance warning.
Sustained food cost price inflation are reviewed annually.
There is a dual supply approach on our key food items could have a detrimental effect for products which are deemed critical.
Either the on franchisee profit margins and or our margins.
supplier has two distinct production plants or we have two distinct suppliers.
We also maintain a close Impact: The failure of a key supplier could mean relationship with suppliers and work with them to take we are unable to supply stores with products or are costs out of their supply base where possible.
The size forced to procure supply from a more expensive or and continued growth of the business also helps us to inferior quality source, which could have a material secure the most competitive pricing available in the adverse impact on our financial performance.
If market, and, where appropriate, we forward buy certain franchisee food costs escalate, their profitability could products to lock-in prices and mitigate the risk of be adversely impacted and this could limit willingness continued price inflation on certain products.
to expand, which could have an adverse impact on our growth plans.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 47 Corporate governance continued Risk description: We purchase and supply to stores a Mitigation activities: All food products that we purchase Major food large range of different food products from countries go through a vigorous product risk assessment.
This safety scares around the world.
Food is under increasing scrutiny risk assessment highlights what makes the product safe from government-led monitoring programmes, as well and flags if there are any potential hazards with the as from non government organisations and consumer product.
Any potential hazards are noted and the groups.
It is possible that a food type that is a appropriate prevention, elimination and monitoring of component of our core product, pizza, e. g. dough, such hazards takes place.
Ongoing testing and audits tomato sauce or cheese may become subject to a are then carried out by us or the supplier and this forms national or international food safety scare which could part of our stringent supplier assurance programme.
mean that we would have to withdraw that food type We are also a member of Leatherhead Food Research, or product from stores.
Alternatively, there could be a who provide us with independent advice and food food scare based around suppliers of a particularly testing facilities.
Suppliers are required to have type of product not necessarily a supplier used by contingency plans in place should their usual methods the Group, failing to comply with legal or regulatory of production or raw materials become threatened.
standards which is subsequently highlighted through All suppliers are communicated with regularly to ensure testing or inspections.
Even if the food type we use is we are kept up to date and aware of any emerging food not itself at the centre of the food scare, by safety scares.
We have an efficient communications association there may be a consumer boycott of all network through which it we can inform franchisees types of that food product.
about food safety so that customers can be re-assured, as appropriate.
We pride ourselves on maintaining good Impact: Consumers may refrain from purchasing relationships with suppliers and therefore subscribe to Dominos Pizza products if there is a food safety scare multiple information sources and organisations that deal relating to a product strongly related with pizza, which with food safety, this allows us to identify current and is based either on scientific findings or media potential emerging risks as early as possible and as a speculation.
If this consumer behaviour was to result prepare accordingly.
We also have in place crisis continue for an extended period of time and no and continuity plans which are tested and refreshed acceptable substitute food products were available, regularly.
there could be a material adverse impact on the Groups operating results for the period s affected.
Planning restrictions Risk description: New, more onerous, planning Mitigation activities: There are legal routes of redress restrictions could be imposed by central or local available should more onerous planning restrictions government relating to the type of locations we seek be enforced.
We also have the ability to consider for new stores.
purchasing freeholds with existing, appropriate planning.
Both ourselves and our planning consultants Impact: Should central or local governments put more actively build relationships with and work closely with onerous planning restrictions in place, opening new local authorities to ensure that there is an stores could become much more difficult and could understanding of the responsible way in which the restrict our ability to expand in desirable areas and stores are operated and our willingness to accept achieve target openings in future years.
This could appropriate planning conditions.
have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and profit growth.
48 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements Operational risks Risk description: Food service businesses are Mitigation activities: We recognise the link between a Consumer relevance affected by various changes in the following scenarios, balanced diet, a happy lifestyle and good health and consumer tastes, the local, national and international therefore provide nutritional information on our websites economic conditions, local and national competition to allow customers to make an informed choice.
Any material change in offer a reduced fat mozzarella cheese offering as a market perception of the home delivery and pizza topping and in 2012 introduced a new Gluten convenience food industry, or the Dominos brand free pizza, due to demand from Coeliacs.
We work in particular, could adversely affect our business.
In relentlessly to reflect changes in consumer tastes and addition, increasing government and media initiatives improve our offering by investing in price, quality and to create greater awareness of healthy eating could service in order to deliver the optimum home delivery impact on the publics perception of the convenience pizza service to our customers.
We have a strong focus food industry.
on new product development to ensure the menu has broad appeal and reflects consumer trends.
In the UK Impact: If we fail to anticipate and respond to a we have committed to the Department of Healths change in consumer demand for home delivery pizza, Responsibility Deal, which includes providing calorie this could have a material adverse affect on our future information at the point of purchase and for our results of operations and financial performance.
products to contain no artificial trans fat.
We are also working to reduce salt levels in our products and all our products are GM free.
We also ensure that our menus and product offerings are updated regularly and reflect the territory in which a store is operating.
For example, the German and Swiss markets taste differ substantially to the market in the UK and the Republic of Ireland and as a result the Swiss and German menus are each independent of those in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
Risk description: This risk covers a plethora of related Mitigation activities: The Board is updated regularly with Inappropriate sub-risks but essentially comprises our corporate regards the corporate and financial structure of the financial or structure being sub optimal from a tax, accounting, Group and this includes taking external advice and corporate structure legal, commercial or leverage perspective given the seeking feedback, alongside having open dialogue with size of the Group and the type of business we engage analysts and major investors and shareholders.
As we acquired the master franchise rights for strong track record of financial performance combined Germany on 26 April 2011 and in relation to with effective and a robust business model means we Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Luxembourg we are seen as a strong covenant by the banks and acquired the master franchise rights on 24 September investors.
We also have in place in both Germany and 2012, as with all international expansion, we must Switzerland an experienced management and ensure that we have the approrpriate corporate and operational team to drive our growth plans in each financial structure to ensure success in these new market and these teams are focused on building robust international markets.
systems and processes that align with the German and Swiss strategy.
Impact: An inappropriate structure could lead to investors or potential investors viewing the Companys shares as undesirable to hold.
The wrong structure could also lead to high overheads, high interest charges, lack of financial strength, fall in profitability, decrease in multiples share price, loss of faith in management and the inability to flex the business model to take advantage of business opportunities or alternatively protect against damage to the brand.
Poor performance and or an inapprorpriate structure in the German Swiss markets could ultimately lead to failure to attract new franchisees and therefore to grow the brand, which could have a detrimental effect and potentially lead to a failure to meet opening targets and potentially the termination of the German MFA and or the Swiss MFA.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 49 Corporate governance continued Risk description: We depend, in large part, on the Mitigation activities: Our franchisees must adhere to Reputational damage Dominos brand.
Over the last few years, Dominos quality, safety and image regulations that we strictly to the brand has become a very high profile business in the UK enforce through the implementation of training and and Republic of Ireland.
Therefore, any significant act, careful monitoring, funded by both the franchisees omission or harmful allegation that is made public in and the Group.
This mentoring comprises store visits, respect of one or more stores could lead to significant inspections and frequent business review meetings.
media interest and bad publicity.
The Dominos brand In addition, we take a very pro-active approach to is still relatively new to the German market and as a following media coverage of the brand and respond result any significant act, bad publicity or failure of the suitably to any customer complaints or material that brand in Germany could have severe consequences is potentially damaging to the brand.
With regards for the future of the brand in that territory.
With Germany and Switzerland, all of our current stores in regards Switzerland, the brand has been in the Switzerland and a number of stores in Germany are Swiss market since 1999 it still remains relatively corporate stores and we therefore have ultimate control undeveloped and any damage to the brands over these stores and how they are run.
reputation could materially affect our growth plans in Switzerland.
Impact: A franchisee or corporate store in the case of Germany and Switzerland could fail to operate to the required standard and as a result attract adverse local and national publicity which, if the failings were of a sufficiently material nature, could lead to lasting damage to the brand with customers of the stores choosing not to buy from Dominos again.
A material loss in sales caused by brand damage could adversely affect our future results of operation and financial condition.
Material Risk description: The relationship we have with our Mitigation activities: Relationships are carefully nurtured deterioration franchisees is key to our success.
Any deterioration in by the Directors, senior management and franchisee in relationships the relationship with the franchisee community as a facing employees in all departments.
Regular one-to with franchisees whole could have a detrimental effect on the successone business review meetings are held with each and or standards of the stores.
We also host regional franchisee dinners and national franchisee events Impact: Should the relationship with the franchisees which allow franchisees to discuss anything of concern materially deteriorate we could lose certain of our or interest and for our detailed market strategies to be franchisees who may elect to go to a competitor, outlined to the franchisees.
At all times, we aim to operational standards within stores could drop and we provide great service to our franchisees that adds value may have difficulty requiring franchisees to support to their businesses.
In the event that a franchisee changes to policies, standards and brand guidelines leaves the Dominos system, the standard franchise and to continue opening stores.
This could have an agreement in place with each franchisee provides for a adverse impact on our ability to continue with our non-compete clause post termination of the franchise strategic growthplans.
agreement which prevents against the franchisees opening or operating another pizza outlet for a period of one year post termination.
50 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements Risk description: One of the key functions of our Mitigation activities: We work in partnership with our Commissary business is the manufacture of dough and the suppliers and other Dominos Pizza master franchisors production issues distribution of food and other items used in the stores in neighbouring territories to manage the risk of any by our commissaries based in Milton Keynes UK, delays or interruptions in the supply chain, which may Penrith UK, Naas Republic of Ireland and Berlin affect trade.
In the UK, we have the ability to increase Germany.
It is possible that one or more of the production at one of our other facilities should one of commissaries could suffer an interruption to our commissaries have to reduce or stop production production or distribution caused by factors such for any reason.
Our Milton Keynes facility is the largest as mechanical failure, power failure, staff related commissary in the Group and has sufficient capacity problems, fire, failure of a key supplier, adverse to handle any cessation in production at the other two weather preventing production or deliveries, or staff commissaries in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
A comprehensive Site Down Recovery Plan is also in place across each production facility in the UK and Impact: We could suffer a material decrease in the Republic of Ireland, which forms part of our Business volume of sales of the Group if there were a sinlge Continuity Plan.
In Germany, we are in the process of major failure or repeated failures in our dough putting in place contingency plans with certain of the production, distribution of food or other store materials other Dominos Pizza Master Franchisors in Europe which prevented stores from trading regularly or for so they can assist should there be a failure at any of prolonged periods.
If this were to happen in the UK our German commissaries.
We currently have no this could have a material adverse impact on our commissary Switzerland and rely instead on third financial performance.
Risk description: The success of the Groups sales Mitigation activities: We have extensive controls and IT infrastructure through channels of e-commerce is highly dependent reviews to maintain the integrity and efficient of our IT on our ability to maintain operational and efficient IT infrastructure and data.
We control the IT function from systems in order to facilitate online sales and orders our Head Office at Milton Keynes, which ensures made via smart phones and other internet enabled consistency of delivery across all of our territories and in devices.
Furthermore, the stores utilise IT systems the UK, where necessary, we outsource certain of our which allow franchisees to electronically place delivery server hosting requirements.
We continue to heavily orders directly with our commissary sites.
We also use invest in our IT systems and innovations in order to that same IT system to calculate the royalties payable improve business efficiency and the customer by each of the stores.
For example, we and our franchisees have invested in a new and advanced electronic point of sale Impact: If any of our online ordering websites were to system which provides higher levels of resilience and fail for an extended period of time, there could be a better supportability than our previous electronic point material loss of resultant orders and this would in turn of sales system.
We have put in place an IT disaster adversely affect sales for the day s in question, which recovery plan which will enable us to continue to if this occurred on a regular basis may adversely operate the IT systems identified as being critical in the affect our business and results of operation.
A failure event of a site failure.
of the IT system could lead to an inability to accurately calculate royalty payments and for franchisees to place food orders which could, if prolonged or repeated on a regular basis, particularly in the UK, adversely affect the Groups financial performance.
The risks listed do not comprise all those associated with the Group and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Board or to management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse effect on the business.
The Boards review of the system of internal control Through the monitoring processes described above, during the year the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board reviewed the effectiveness and structure of the system of internal controls.
The Audit Committee satisfied itself that there is a continual process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks.
This has been in place for the financial year being reported and up to the publication date of this Annual Report and financial statements.
No material financial problems have been identified that would affect the results reported in these financial statements and the Board confirms that if significant weaknesses had been identified during this review, the Board would have taken the necessary steps to remedy them.
By order of the Board Lee Ginsberg Chief Financial Officer 22 February 2013 www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 51
