Drax Group plc Annual report and 62 accounts 2012 Nominations Committee report The Committee keeps under review the structure, size and composition of the Board and also the succession planning for executive directors and other senior managers.
Charles Berry Chairman of the Nominations Committee Throughout 2012, the Nominations Committee the Committee consisted of Charles Berry as Chairman, Tim Barker Senior Independent Director, Tim Cobbold, David Lindsell and Tony Thorne all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The principal duties of the Committee are to keep under review the structure, size and composition of the Board including the skills, knowledge and experience required by it, to consider succession planning for the directors and other senior managers, to identify and nominate candidates to fill vacancies among the directors and to review the time required from non-executive directors.
The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board.
They are available on the Groups website at www.
The Committee met on three occasions in 2012, and the members attendance record is set out on page 53.
The Chairman of the Committee reports on the Committees proceedings to the following Board meeting and, subject to redaction in the event that they include personal information, the minutes of each meeting of the Committee are circulated to all members of the Board.
During 2012, the Company enhanced its succession planning and career development processes.
The Committee considered the revised processes and reviewed the succession plan in relation to senior management roles.
The succession plan was considered to be appropriate taking into account the size and management structure of the Group.
During the course of the year, the Committee also reviewed the composition of the Board and concluded that it was an appropriate time to appoint an additional non-executive director.
The Committee engaged The Zygos Partnership to conduct a search and selection process.
The Zygos Partnership has no other connection with the Company other than in relation to previous engagements on search and selection assignments.
The Committee was presented with a list of candidates from which a short list was identified.
Following consideration and interviews with a number of excellent candidates, the Committee recommended to the Board that Melanie Gee be appointed as a non-executive director.
Her appointment became effective on 1 January 2013 and she will retire and offer herself for election by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 24 April 2013.
Melanies biography appears on page 48.
It is the Boards policy to ensure that the proportion of women on the Board is one of the considerations for Board and senior management appointments.
That policy is implemented as part of the recruitment and selection process.
Further details of gender diversity in the Group are included in the Corporate and social responsibility section of the Annual report and accounts.
The Companys Articles provide that directors retire by rotation.
However, the UK Corporate Governance Code provides that all directors should be subject to annual re-election.
The Company adopted the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code on the annual re-election of all directors at the beginning of 2011.
At the conclusion of the AGM on 24 April 2013, Tim Barker is to retire as a director of the Company and from the committees on which he serves.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 63 The Committee initiated the review of the effectiveness of the Board, its committees and individual directors and the outcome is reported in the Corporate governance report on page 51.
The Board met on 12 February 2013, following the completion of the Board evaluation process, and determined that all of the directors who are the subject of annual re-election will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The evaluation of the Board described on page 51 concluded that the directors offering themselves for re-election continue to demonstrate commitment to their particular role and perform effectively.
At that meeting, the Board also reviewed the membership of the various Board committees and appointed David Lindsell as Senior Independent Director and Tony Thorne as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, each to replace Tim Barker upon his retirement.
The executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection by prior arrangement during normal business hours at the Companys registered office.
They will also be available for inspection at the venue, prior to the AGM, details of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 18 February 2013.
Charles Berry Chairman of the Nominations Committee Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
