Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 49 Corporate governance A cornerstone of success What good corporate governance means at Drax T he Board believes that good practice should ow throughout the Group, which in turn should guide the decisions taken on a daily basis.
If we achieve this, then we can be sure that we are taking the right actions for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
Charles Berry Chairman Chairmans letter I am pleased to present the Groups Corporate governance report for 2012 on behalf of our Board.
This report is intended to provide you with a clear and meaningful explanation of what governance means to us and how it guides our decision making.
Good governance at all levels is taken seriously within the Group and it is the Board that sets the tone and takes the lead.
Good governance should be second nature to everyone within the Group as they go about their day-to-day business and is not simply a set of policies and processes.
The Board believes that good practice should ow throughout the Group, which in turn should guide the decisions taken on a daily basis.
It is important that we continue to develop our board structures, processes and procedures to ensure that our governance remains relevant and focused on improving our business and driving our strategic priorities.
As in previous years, during 2012, we continued to strengthen our internal control and risk management processes to ensure that they remain effective and are embedded in business operations across the Group.
I believe the drive for transparent reporting has continued to improve business conduct in recent years.
The UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council emphasises that organisations should actively consider the make up and diversity of their boards.
We have an established policy which ensures that gender diversity is one of the factors taken into account when considering appointments to the Board and other senior roles.
I am pleased to report that the Board has reviewed the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and we comply with it and we intend to continue to observe it, to ensure ongoing good governance is maintained.
A more detailed report on o our ur c co or rp po or ra at te g e go ov vernanc ernance a e arr rra angemen ngement ts s is s is et out on the following pages.
Charles Berry Chairman Directors report The directors present their report for Drax Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 on pages 1 to 82.
Corporate governance The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance, details of which are given in this Corporate governance report and the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committee reports set out on pages 59 to 82.
The various sections of this report contain in summary certain provisions of the Companys current Articles of Association the Articles and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 2006.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted if further information is required.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code It is the Boards view that throughout the period commencing on 1 January 2012, there has been full compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued in June 2010 and applicable to this financial year.
Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc Annual report and 50 accounts 2012 Corporate governance How the Board functions The Board has seven scheduled meetings each year, and arranges additional meetings if the need arises.
There are also three scheduled business updates for the Board by telephone conference call, which are constituted as Board meetings held by telephone if required to address matters for formal decisions.
In addition, the Board meets at least annually to consider strategy.
In October 2012, the Board also met specifically to consider and approve proposals for the issue and placing of shares and for entering into financing arrangements to support the Companys planned investments.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its decision and formal terms of reference for its committees which are available to view on the Groups website at www.
The Board determines: the Groups strategy: the Groups appetite for risk: the internal control and risk management policies: the Business Plan and principal performance indicators: acquisitions and disposals and other transactions outside delegated limits: material changes to accounting policies or practices: significant financial decisions: capital structure and dividend policy: shareholder communications: prosecution, defence or settlement of material litigation: Group remuneration policy: the terms of reference and membership of Board Committees: and the Board structure, composition and succession.
Matters which are not specifically reserved to the Board and its committees under their terms of reference, or to shareholders in General Meeting, are delegated to the Chief Executive or otherwise delegated in accordance with a schedule of delegated authorities approved by the Board.
The Board receives regular reports on performance against the Business Plan and periodic business reports from senior management.
Directors are briefed on matters to be discussed at meetings by papers distributed in advance of Board and committee meetings.
The Board has adopted a policy whereby directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
During 2012, no director sought independent professional advice pursuant to the policy.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters, ensuring good information flows within the Board, its committees and senior management, and ensuring that Board processes are complied with.
He is also responsible for compliance with the Companies Act, the Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
In his role as Director of Corporate Affairs, he is also responsible for advising the Board on legal matters and has responsibility for the Company Secretarial, Environmental, External Communications, Group Legal, Human Resources, and Regulatory and Policy functions, and for the management of the Groups internal control and risk management framework and processes.
The Articles give the directors power to approve conflicts of interest.
The Board has adopted a procedure that has operated effectively by which situations giving rise to potential conflicts of interest are identified to the Board, considered for authorisation and recorded.
The Articles also allow the Board to exercise voting rights in group companies without restriction e. g. so as to appoint a director to the board of a group company without this counting as a conflict requiring authorisation.
Each director has the benefit of a deed of indemnity from the Company and its subsidiaries in respect of claims made and liabilities incurred, in either case arising out of the bona fide discharge by the director of his or her duties.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against directors of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 51 Selection, appointment, review and re-election The Articles provide that one-third of directors, not including directors appointed by the Board, rounded down to the nearest whole number shall retire by rotation each year but are eligible to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders and that directors shall not serve longer than the third Annual General Meeting AGM following their election without being re-elected by shareholders.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, and in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company will continue to propose all directors for annual re-election.
Accordingly each of Charles Berry, Tim Cobbold, Peter Emery, David Lindsell, Tony Quinlan, Paul Taylor, Dorothy Thompson and Tony Thorne will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for reelection.
Tim Barker will retire at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM and will not seek re-election.
The Articles require that, following appointment to the Board, directors submit themselves for election by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment.
Melanie Gee has been appointed to the Board after the last AGM and, therefore, will retire and offer herself for election by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
The evaluation of the Board described below concluded that the directors offering themselves for election or re-election in line with the provisions contained in the Articles continue to demonstrate commitment, management and industry expertise in their particular role and perform effectively.
The election or re-election of each director is recommended by the Board.
Details of the service contracts for the executive directors and letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are set out in a table on page 69.
It is the Boards policy that each non-executive director will be appointed for a term of three years which, subject to the Board being satisfied as to the directors performance and commitment, and a resolution to re-elect at the appropriate AGM, may be renewed by mutual agreement.
However, it is the Boards policy not to extend the aggregate period of service of any independent nonexecutive director beyond nine years and, any proposal made to extend a non-executive directors aggregate period of office beyond six years is the subject of a rigorous review.
Such reviews in cases where a director remains in office after six years, will be conducted annually, as part of the evaluation of the Board.
The Board is satisfied that all the directors are able to devote sufficient time to their duties as directors.
Performance reviews and directors development The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group.
For each of the previous five years the Board has conducted a review of its effectiveness and that of its committees with the assistance of external facilitation.
In 2012, the performance review was undertaken internally, led by the Chairman and facilitated by the Company Secretary.
The review concluded that the Board, its individual directors and its committees continued to be effective.
There were no significant areas of concern.
The review did, however, identify areas in which processes could be improved to enhance the Boards effectiveness in monitoring performance as the Group implements its biomass transformation plans which will increase the scope and complexity of the Groups operations.
In particular: enhanced reporting on major capital projects, including those in the US, will be incorporated into regular Board reporting: specific measures were identified to assist directors in maintaining appropriate knowledge and understanding of commodity market conditions in which the Group operates and to enable them to assess the risks inherent in trading activities: and there is a continuing need to keep the Groups Bribery Act compliance processes under review in the light of the expansion of jurisdictions in which the business will be operating.
During the year, the Chairman held a meeting with the non-executive directors in the absence of the executive directors, and the Senior Independent Director held a meeting with the non-executive directors without the Chairman being present, as required by provision A.
4.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board is committed to the development of all employees and directors and has reviewed and will periodically continue to review each individual directors development requirements and make appropriate arrangements to address them.
All new directors receive an induction, including being provided with information about the Group and their responsibilities, meetings with key managers and visits to the Groups sites.
In addition, each non-executive director visits operational sites and meets with senior management to be briefed on the Groups business at least annually, and specific Board training days are arranged, where appropriate, involving presentations on relevant topics.
Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc Annual report and 52 accounts 2012 Corporate governance Committees of the Board The table below details the standing committees established by the Board and the membership thereof: 1 Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Executive Committee Tim Barker Member Member Chairman Charles Berry Invited to attend Chairman Member Tim Cobbold Member Member Member Peter Emery Member 2 Melanie Gee Member Member Member 3 Philip Hudson Secretary Secretary Secretary Member David Lindsell Chairman Member Member Tony Quinlan Invited to attend Member Paul Taylor Member Dorothy Thompson Invited to attend Invited to attend Chairman Tony Thorne Member Member Member Notes: 1 The Executive Committee is a committee through which the Chief Executive discharges her duties in respect of the day-to-day management of the Group.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Executive Committee.
2 Melanie Gee was appointed a member of each of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committee upon being appointed as a director of the Company on 1 January 2013.
3 Philip Hudson is the Company Secretary.
Details of the work of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees are given in the respective reports of those Committees.
The terms of reference for these Committees are reviewed annually by each Committee and then by the Board.
The terms of reference of each Committee are available on the Groups website at www.
Directors interests, indemnity arrangements and other significant agreements Other than a deed of indemnity between each director, the Company and each of its subsidiaries in respect of claims made and personal liability incurred as a result of the bona fide discharge of the directors responsibilities, a service contract between the executive directors and a Group company, or as noted in the Remuneration Committee report, no director had a material interest at any time during the year in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
There are no agreements between the Group and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Board has reviewed the independence of each non-executive director.
None of the non-executive directors who has served during the year had any material business or other relationship with the Group, and there were no other matters that were likely to affect their independence of character and judgement.
The Board therefore considers all of the non-executive directors to be independent.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 53 Board and Board Committee attendance The table below shows the number of meetings and attendance at them by directors of the Board, Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees during 2012.
The number in brackets represents the maximum number of meetings that each individual was entitled to and had the opportunity to attend.
Time on Time 1 the Board with Drax Audit Nominations Remuneration 2 years months years months Board Committee Committee Committee Tim Barker 7 2 8 6 7 7 4 4 3 3 3 3 Charles Berry 7 0 7 0 7 7 3 3 3 3 Tim Cobbold 2 3 2 3 7 7 4 4 3 3 3 3 Peter Emery 7 2 8 6 7 7 David Lindsell 4 0 4 0 7 7 4 4 3 3 3 3 Tony Quinlan 4 4 4 4 7 7 Paul Taylor 1 4 8 6 7 7 Dorothy Thompson 7 2 7 3 7 7 Tony Thorne 2 6 2 6 7 7 4 4 3 3 3 3 Notes: 1 This includes both the time spent on the Board of Drax Group plc and also the effective predecessor companies Drax Group Limited and Drax Power Limited, up to 31 December 2012.
2 In addition to the Board meetings identified above, there have also been three meetings held by telephone to discuss various matters and one meeting held to specifically approve funding arrangements including the placing of shares, and one meeting to consider strategy.
There was full attendance at each of these meetings.
Under the terms of his letter of appointment, the Chairman is expected to commit between 50 and 70 full days a year to fulfil his role.
Under the non-executives letters of appointment, the time commitment each is expected to give in respect of membership of the Board, is 12 to 15 full days a year.
That includes attendance at Board meetings, the AGM, one annual Board strategy day and at least one site visit per year.
In addition, they are expected to devote appropriate preparation time ahead of each meeting.
The time commitment expected in respect of their membership of committees of the Board, notably the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, is an additional three to four full days a year in each case.
Internal control Details of the Groups system of internal control and risk management are contained in the Principal risks and uncertainties section together with the Directors responsibilities statement in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Relations with shareholders The Board places considerable importance on communication with shareholders and is proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder preferences and evaluating systematically the economic, social, environmental and ethical matters that may influence or affect the interests of shareholders.
A number of formal communication channels are used to account to shareholders for the performance of the Group, which include the Annual report and accounts, AGMs and periodic reports to the London Stock Exchange.
Presentations given at appropriate intervals to representatives of the investor community are available to all shareholders to download from the Groups website www.
Less formal processes include contacts with institutional shareholders by the Chairman and other directors.
The Chairman is keen to ensure that he maintains an open relationship with the Groups major shareholders and communicates directly with them, offering the opportunity to meet in order that he can understand their views on the Group, be it corporate governance issues or any other points they might wish to raise.
The Board also reviews and discusses the investor feedback from post-results investor meetings conducted by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director in the UK, Europe and the USA.
These took place following both the preliminary and half year results announcements in 2012.
Makinson Cowell Limited, an independent capital markets consultancy firm, is engaged by the Group to advise and assist in relation to communications with shareholders.
Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc Annual report and 54 accounts 2012 Corporate governance The Companys private registered shareholders hold, in aggregate, approximately 0.8% of the issued share capital.
The Board is as interested in their concerns as it is in the concerns of institutional and corporate shareholders.
All shareholders are free to put questions to the Board at the AGM.
Questions asked in person at the AGM will receive an oral response whenever possible.
Otherwise a written response will be provided as soon as practicable after the AGM.
Questions asked at other times will normally receive a written response.
Shareholders attending the AGM will have an opportunity to meet informally with the directors immediately after the meeting.
All information reported to the market via a regulatory information service also appears as soon as practicable on the Groups website.
The directors consider that this Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Pages 1 to 45 provides an assessment of the Groups affairs.
The Annual report and accounts is available to shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM.
Registered shareholders receive a Form of Proxy which provides for a shareholder to vote in favour or against, or to indicate abstention as an alternative on each separate resolution.
Particulars of aggregate proxies lodged are announced to the London Stock Exchange and placed on the Groups website as soon as practicable after the conclusion of the AGM.
Statutory information Annual General Meeting AGM A separate document contains the notice convening the AGM and a description of the business to be conducted.
Share capital 16 The Company has only one class of equity shares, which are ordinary shares of 11 29 pence each.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights of the ordinary shares.
At 1 January 2012, 364,862,718 shares were in issue and at 31 December 2012, 401,587,564 shares were in issue.
Issue of shares Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act relating to authority and pre-emption rights and to any resolution of the Company in a General Meeting, all unissued shares of the Company shall be at the disposal of the directors and they may allot with or without conferring a right of renunciation, grant options over or otherwise dispose of them to such persons, at such times and on such terms as they think proper.
The table below shows the shares issued during the course of 2012.
Number of Date of issue shares issued Description of issue 10 February 2012 1,776 Issued in satisfaction of share options exercised in accordance with the rules of the Groups 1 Savings-Related Share Option Plan to an individual who had retired from the Group.
30 April 2012 246,017 Issued in satisfaction of shares vesting in accordance with the rules of the Groups Bonus Matching Plan to 66 participants in the Plan.
The shares issued represented 0.07% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital prior to those shares being issued.
14 September 2012 873 Issued in satisfaction of share options exercised in accordance with the rules of the Groups 1 Savings-Related Share Option Plan to an individual who had retired from the Group.
29 October 2012 36,474,627 Placed by Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch and UBS Limited, who acted as joint lead managers and book runners, at a placing price of 520 pence per share, raising gross proceeds of approximately 190 million.
The Placing Shares issued represented 9.9 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital prior to the Placing.
24 December 2012 1,553 Issued in satisfaction of share options exercised in accordance with the rules of the Groups 1 Savings-Related Share Option Plan to an individual who had retired from the Group.
Note: 1 The shares issued represented a negligible percentage of the Companys issued ordinary share capital prior to those shares being issued.
On 31 January 2013, a total of 2,669 shares were issued in satisfaction of share options exercised in accordance with the rules of the Groups Savings-Related Share Option Plan to an individual who had retired from the Group.
No other ordinary shares were issued during the year.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 55 Substantial shareholdings As at 18 February 2013, the Company has been notified in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the voting rights of the Company: Date last Number of Number of Number of voting Total % of the TR1 Notification voting rights voting rights rights in qualifying number of issued share i made directly held indirectly held financial instruments shares held capital held Invesco plc 01.03.2010 108,072,751 108,072,751 29.62% Schroders plc 30.10.2012 36,692,038 52,020 36,744,058 9.15% Black Rock Inc. 15.01.2013 19,091,696 1,003,703 20,095,399 5.00% AXA S. A.
As part of the share placing on 29 October 2012, Invesco plc subscribed for 10.7 million shares at a price of 520 pence per share.
Invesco plc has not had cause to issue a further TR1 notification to the Company since that detailed above and therefore the 10.7 million shares are not included in the totals contained in the table above.
Authority to purchase own shares At the AGM held on 18 April 2012, shareholders resolved to authorise the Company to make market purchases of up to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital.
At the forthcoming AGM, shareholders will be asked to renew this authority.
Details are contained in the notice of the AGM.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during 2012 and the Company held no Treasury shares during 2012.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are set out in the Articles.
The Articles may only be changed by the shareholders by special resolution.
Variation of rights Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate General Meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate General Meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as Treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Transfer of shares All transfers of shares which are in certificated form may be effected by transfer in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the directors and may be under hand only.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the register.
All transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form may be effected by means of the CREST system.
The directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer relating to shares in certificated form unless it: a is in respect of only one class of share: and b is lodged at the transfer office duly stamped if required accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person on his her behalf, the authority of that person so to do.
Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc Annual report and 56 accounts 2012 Corporate governance The directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason therefore, refuse to register any transfer of shares not being fully paid shares provided that, where any such shares are admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fully paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer, they shall send within two months after the date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company, to the allottee or transferee, notice of the refusal.
A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares to take place.
The Articles provide that directors must give reasons for any refusal to register a transfer of shares in accordance with the Companies Act.
Shares in uncertificated form Directors may determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated form and title to such shares may be transferred by means of a relevant system or that shares of any class should cease to be held and transferred.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the CREST Regulations and every other statute, statutory instrument, regulation or order for the time being in force concerning companies and affecting the Company.
The provisions of the Articles shall not apply to shares of any class which are in uncertificated form to the extent that the Articles are inconsistent with the holding of shares of that class in uncertificated form, the transfer of title to shares of that class by means of a relevant system or any provision of the CREST Regulations.
Voting Subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached by, or in accordance with, the Articles to any class of shares, on a show of hands every member who is present in person at a General Meeting shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he she is the holder.
It has been the Companys practice since incorporation to hold a poll on every resolution at Annual General Meetings and Extraordinary General Meetings.
Where shares are held by trustees nominees in respect of the Groups employee share plans and the voting rights attached to such shares are not directly exercisable by the employees, it is the Companys practice that such rights are not exercised by the relevant trustee nominee.
Under the Companies Act, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a General Meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a General Meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A member that is a corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a General Meeting or class meetings as a corporate representative.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights Votes are exercisable at a General Meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Restrictions on voting No member shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, be entitled in respect of any share held by him her to vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to shareholders meetings if any call or other sum presently payable by him her to the Company in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if he she has been served with a notice after failing to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 57 Other significant agreements Under a 100 million amortising term loan facility agreement dated 20 December 2012 between, amongst others, Drax Finance Limited and the Prudential M&G UK Companies Financing Fund, on a change of control, if any lender requires, it may by giving notice to Drax Finance Limited and the facility agent within 30 days of receiving notice from Drax Finance Limited that a change of control has occurred, cancel its commitments and require the repayment of its share of any outstanding amounts within three business days of such cancellation notice being given.
Under a 100 million amortising term loan facility agreement dated 20 December 2012 between, amongst others, Drax Finance Limited and the Green Investment Bank, on a change of control, if any lender requires, it may by giving notice to Drax Finance Limited and the facility agent within 30 days of receiving notice from Drax Finance Limited that a change of control has occurred, cancel its commitments and require the repayment of its share of any outstanding amounts within three business days of such cancellation notice being given.
Under a 400 million revolving credit facility agreement dated 20 December 2012 between, amongst others, Drax Power Limited and Barclays Bank PLC as facility agent, on a change of control, if any lender requires, it may by giving notice to Drax Power Limited and the facility agent within 30 days of receiving notice from Drax Power Limited that a change of control has occurred, cancel its commitments and require the repayment of its share of any outstanding amounts within three business days of such cancellation notice being given.
Under the terms of the above credit facility agreements, a change of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of Drax Group plc.
There are no other significant agreements to which the Group is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Group following a takeover bid.
Auditors and the disclosure of information to the auditor So far as each person who is a director at the date of approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being information needed by the auditor in connection with preparing the report, of which the auditor is unaware.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors, each director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to ascertain any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act.
In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act, a resolution is to be proposed at the AGM for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the auditor of the Group.
A resolution will also be proposed authorising the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the auditor, the auditors effectiveness and relationship with the Group, including the level of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditor.
Further details on the work of the auditor and the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 59 to 61.
Philip Hudson Company Secretary 18 February 2013 Registered office: Drax Power Station Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH Registered in England and Wales No.
5562053 Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc Annual report and 58 accounts 2012 Corporate governance Directors responsibilities statement The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Dorothy Thompson Tony Quinlan Chief Executive Finance Director 18 February 2013 18 February 2013
