Corporate Governance What does good governance mean to DS Smith?
Dear Shareholders DS Smith has gone through a period of great change in the last 12 months with more changes still to come.
Managing this change has been a fundamental part of the good governance of this Company and the Company is committed to the principle and application of sound corporate governance.
Meeting the ever-changing demands of the business environment and taking into account wider social and political in uences whilst at the same time ensuring that our various stakeholders shareholders, employees, customers and the environment are all given equal consideration, has been a challenge that your Board has taken very seriously.
Ensuring that DS Smith has been able to rise to these demands as a cohesive Group has been at the heart of all your Boards decisions.
This Report shows how the Board looked at the challenges laid down by the UK Corporate Governance Code last year and reviews the Codes impact on the Company during the year.
Through the Nomination Committee, a good deal of attention has been paid to the composition of the Board and succession planning, taking into account knowledge and experience, key skills, diversity and the mix between Executive and non-Executive Directors.
Topics discussed at 2011 12 As regards diversity, the Board of DS Smith has considered carefully Lord Davies Board meetings recommendations.
We have a small Board, comprising two Executive Directors, three non-Executive Directors and a non-Executive Chairman, and therefore believe it dif cult to set targets or timescales for the percentage of women, or any other group, on our Board.
We are committed to ensuring our Board continues to have both relevant experience and appropriate diversity.
We believe the Board would be strengthened by the addition of women with the right skills and experience and will continue to seek to identify suitable candidates.
In view of this, we are optimistic that the targets for Board composition set 8 out in the Davies recommendations can be met.
meetings held Executive remuneration has again been a hot topic and the Remuneration Committees Report on pages 43 to 54 sets out in detail the Companys approach to this important area.
Last year, before the Code came into force, the Board agreed that the Chairman and non-Executive Directors would put themselves up for re-election annually but the Executive Directors would only stand for re-election every three years.
Having reviewed best practice and after further discussion, the Board has now resolved that all Directors will stand for Governance 27% re-election annually.
Strategy 23% Financial Management 21% Operations 15% Health & Safety Environment 10% Human Resources 3% Other 1% Gareth Davis, Chairman A further 6 unscheduled meetings were held during the year, principally to discuss the proposed acquisition of SCA Packaging www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2012 36 Governance the Committees and the individual Directors Committee structure between January and March 2012.
The review was carried out by an external facilitator, who has no other connection with the Group, The Board and who was appointed to provide a more independent view and a new focus for the 2012 Board evaluation.
The review investigated a variety of aspects associated Nomination Audit Remuneration General Purposes with Board effectiveness, speci cally: Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 the way in which the Board fide fines its role and approaches its work strategy, risk and control, performance management, and communication : and The Company has complied throughout the For meetings where Directors were unable financial year with all the provisions of the to attend, where practicable, they gave full 2 the way in which the Board works together UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board consideration to the matters being discussed culture and dynamics, and optimises its use has regard to corporate governance issues in and provided their input to the Chairman.
of time and its contribution to the Company.
all of its decision making.
Further explanation In addition to formal Board meetings, the The facilitator obtained feedback from each of how the principles and supporting principles Chairman and Group Chief Executive maintain Director through detailed one-to-one interviews of the Code have been applied is set out regular contact with all Directors and hold and attendance as an observer at a Board below and in the Directors Remuneration informal meetings with non-Executive Directors meeting.
The feedback was collated into a Report.
The Companys Auditor has reviewed to discuss issues affecting the Company.
report which was discussed with each Director the compliance with those provisions of Individual Directors are encouraged to make and then presented to the Board.
All Directors the Code speci ed for their review.
site visits during the year.
The Board reviews and the Company Secretary participated in the the performance of the Group and undertakes Board and Board Committees exercise.
Individual Directors were encouraged a strategic review on an annual basis.
There The role of the Board to discuss feedback with the facilitator.
is a formal schedule of matters reserved for The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the Company by consideration and approval by the Board, 2011 12 Board meetings directing and supervising the Companys affairs.
which was reviewed and updated in April 2012.
These include the annual budget, The Boards role is to provide leadership of the Corporate strategy substantial acquisitions and disposals, the Company within a framework of prudent and The main discussions on strategy for 2011 12 effective controls which enable risk to be approval of the full-year and half-year results were around the disposal of the Of ce Products assessed and managed.
and a review of the overall system of internal Wholesaling division and the acquisition of the control and risk management.
The Board sets the Companys strategic packaging division of SCA.
The Companys aims, ensures that the necessary financial Each Director has access to all information medium-term targets are to remain focused on and human resources are in place for the relating to the Group and to the advice and recycled packaging to consumer companies: Company to meet its objectives, and reviews services of the Company Secretary who is reducing cyclicality of returns: and reducing management performance.
responsible for ensuring that Board procedures non-integrated paper production.
are followed and is also the Companys In addition, the Board sets the Companys General Counsel and, as required, external Board committees values and standards and ensures that its advice at the expense of the Group.
The Details of the matters discussed in the Audit, obligations to its shareholders and others are Directors are provided with opportunities for Remuneration and Nomination Committees understood and met.
training to ensure that they are kept up-to-date during 2011 12 are set out in the following The of ces of Chairman and Group Chief on relevant new legislation and regulation pages.
In addition to those matters, the Executive are held separately.
During the year, changes, corporate governance developments Remuneration Committee reviewed and updated each of the non-Executive Directors has at all and changing commercial risks.
On its terms of reference in April 2012 and the Audit times acted independently of management appointment, new Directors are given and Nomination Committees terms of reference and has no relationships which would materially were reviewed and updated in June 2012. appropriate induction training, tailored to interfere with the exercise of their independent their speci c needs, taking into account their Board visibility judgement and decision making.
Gareth Davis individual quali cations and experience, which In addition to regular reports from the Group was regarded as independent when includes individual time with the Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director the appointed Chairman.
Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Board received reports from and engaged with Director and site visits to major business units.
All Board members attend all Board and divisional managers and key members of the relevant Committee meetings unless exceptional The Board carried out a comprehensive support teams.
circumstances prevent them from attending.
appraisal of its performance and that of DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 37 Corporate Governance continued Annual General Nomination Audit Remuneration Meeting and Board Committee Committee Committee General Meeting Total number of meetings in 2011 12 143442 Number of meetings attended in 2011 12 Executive Directors Miles Roberts 14 14 2 2 Steve Dryden 14 14 2 2 Non-Executive Directors 1 Gareth Davis 14 14 2 3 2 3 4 4 2 2 Chris Bunker 13 14 3 3 4 4 4 4 2 2 2 Peter Johnson 2 8 1 2 0 1 3 Philippe Mellier 11 14 0 0 1 1 4 4 2 2 4 Jonathan Nicholls 13 14 3 3 4 4 2 2 1 2 The Board held eight scheduled meetings during the year and six ad hoc meetings were held to discuss specic issues, principally relating to the SCA Packaging acquisition.
In addition to the AGM in September there was a General Meeting held in February 2012.
Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
Gareth Davis stepped down as a member of the Audit Committee on his appointment as Chairman of the Board in January 2012 2.
Peter Johnson retired from the Board on 4 January 2012 3.
Philippe Mellier was appointed as a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees in January 2012 4.
Jonathan Nicholls was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee in January 2012 t The responsibilities of the Audit Committee The facilitator concluded as follows: Following this evaluation the Board and Board are appropriately drawn.
recommends the re-election of Directors t During the review the Board demonstrated a The Remuneration Committee will focus on standing for re-election at the 2012 Annual methodical and thorough approach to its ensuring the remuneration policy consistently General Meeting.
The Board demonstrated strategic reects the business strategy and goals.
The Summary of Board and Committee clarity and conviction, and spends a Nomination Committee needs to continue changes in the year significant amount of time on risk and to focus on bench strength and executive control.
The Board is assisted by improving Month Change succession planning as a priority.
financial information, professional internal September 2011 Gareth Davis appointed Three areas were identied by the facilitator and external audit processes, and a strong as Deputy Chairman.
for further Board discussion, all of which Audit Committee.
There is an active and will become more important following the October 2011 Peter Johnson stepped down collaborative approach to performance Companys latest transaction: as Chairman but continued management, and a constructive as a non-Executive Director Remuneration Committee.
The dynamics t There is a need for a greater level of Board and Gareth Davis appointed and contribution of the Board are fostered knowledge and discussion regarding the as Interim Chairman.
through an open and transparent culture international landscape, the Companys promoted by the Group Chief Executive attention to customers, and the relevance January 2012 Gareth Davis appointed and executive team, high quality debate, of the Boards future composition.
Peter an even contribution, and respected Johnson retired from t The understanding of the Board and its Board leadership.
The Board and the the Board.
Chris Bunker visibility of risk and executive succession Committees benefit from carefully planned becomes Chairman of the planning needs to be further developed.
agendas, and effective support from the Remuneration Committee.
t The Board should give further consideration to Jonathan Nicholls appointed having more site visits and using the informal to Remuneration Committee.
t There is an open Board culture.
The Board is time Directors spend together for further focused on its ability to deliver value, and to Philippe Mellier appointed discussions which would complement the make a significant difference through its to the Audit and formal Board meetings.
The Executive Directors Nomination Committees.
are open and honest in their dealings with The Board has discussed the findings of the the non-Executive Directors, respect their facilitator in detail and an action plan has been views and listen to their concerns.
Nondeveloped by the Chairman, with the assistance Executive Directors address the right issues of the Company Secretary, to address the and are both challenging and supportive.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2012 38 Governance Board Committees The Committee meets with the external Auditor 5.4 million was paid to other accounting rms to determine annually their qualications, for non-audit work, including 0.9 million for The principal Committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination expertise, resources, independence, objectivity, work relating to Internal Audit.
All Board Committees have and effectiveness.
The Audit Committee Deloitte LLP, a leading international audit written terms of reference agreed by the Board.
receives written conrmation from the external partnership, was first appointed as Auditor to These are available on the Companys website Auditor as to any relationships that might have the Group companies in 2006 and their fees at http: www.
com aboutus a bearing on their independence, whether they are regularly compared with peer companies corporate-governance or are available consider themselves independent within the by the Committee.
There are no contractual on request to the Company Secretary.
meaning of the UK regulatory and professional restrictions on the Group with regard to requirements, and on their quality control Deloittes appointment.
In accordance with Audit Committee processes and ethical standards.
professional standards, the partner responsible The Audit Committee is chaired by Jonathan In order to ensure the independence and for the audit is changed every five years.
The other members are Chris Bunker objectivity of the Auditor, the Committee and Philippe Mellier.
In addition to the During the year, the Committee met privately maintains and regularly reviews the Auditor Committee members, the Chairman, the Group with the external Auditor after each Committee Independence Policy which covers services Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, meeting.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee which may be provided by, and fees paid to, representatives from Internal Audit and the also held separate private meetings during the auditors.
Audit fees are negotiated with the Group Financial Controller attend parts of these year with the external Auditor, representatives Group Finance Director and approved by the meetings by invitation.
The Board is satisfied from Internal Audit and the Group Finance Audit Committee.
The policy on the supply of that Jonathan Nicholls and the members of the Director.
The Committee received sufficient, non-audit services by external auditors is as Audit Committee have both current and relevant reliable and timely information from follows: The Group should not employ the financial experience as set out on page 35. management to enable it to full its Auditor to provide non-audit services where responsibilities.
The Committee is satisfied The terms of reference of the Audit Committee either the nature of the work or the extent of that the Groups executive compensation include all the matters indicated by the Code, such services might impair the Auditors arrangements do not prejudice robust except the oversight of business risks which independence or objectivity.
The external controls and good stewardship.
is the direct responsibility of the Board.
The Auditor is permitted to undertake some primary objective of the Audit Committee is non-audit services, providing they have the At its meeting in June 2011, the Committee to assist the Board in fullling its responsibilities skill, competence and integrity to carry out the reviewed the annual financial statements of the relating to: work in the best interests of the Group, on, for Company and received reports from Internal example, advisory services and due diligence Audit on internal control matters and from the t the accounting principles, policies and activities associated with potential acquisitions external Auditor on the conduct of their audit, practices adopted in the Groups accounts: and disposals and major changes in their review of accounting policies, areas of t external financial reporting and accounting regulations.
Non-audit services and judgement and the financial statements and associated announcements: fees are reported to the Audit Committee twice their comments on statements concerning risk a year.
For guidance, annual non-audit fees t the appointment, independence, effectiveness and internal control.
A similar review was payable to the external Auditor should not undertaken in December 2011 when the and remuneration of the Groups Auditor: exceed 75% of the annual Group audit fee half-year results were considered.
At these t the resourcing, plans and effectiveness of without prior formal approval of the Committee.
meetings and the meeting in April 2012, Internal Audit performed on behalf of the During 2011 12, total non-audit fees were the Committee dealt with the following Company by a major accountancy rm 136% of the annual Group audit fee.
The most particular matters: currently KPMG, which is independent significant element related to the proposed from the Groups Auditor: t at the year-end a series of tests were acquisition of SCA Packaging, where the use undertaken to determine whether there had t the adequacy and effectiveness of the of external auditors was approved by the Audit been any impairment to the balance sheet financial control environment: and Committee.
Approval for permitted non-audit carrying values of goodwill and other services is sought as required by this policy t the Groups compliance with the Code.
The key assumptions which species that individual projects which behind these calculations can be found The Committee receives and reviews regular would cost over 100,000 must be referred in note 10 to the financial statements: reports from the external Auditor, Internal Audit to the Chairman of the Committee for prior and the Group Finance Director.
Under its terms t at the meeting in June 2011 it received a approval.
The outcome of these reviews of reference the Committee is empowered to was not only that performance of the relevant report from Internal Audit covering, amongst seek independent external advice but did not other things, the work undertaken by the non-audit work by the Auditor was the most do so during the year.
Internal Audit function and management cost-effective way of conducting business, but responses to proposals made in the audit also that no conicts of interest existed between such audit and non-audit work.
In addition, reports issued by the function during the year: DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 39 Corporate Governance continued t it considered the effectiveness of systems considers the appointment of Directors, Conicts of interest reviews succession planning and diversity The Companys Articles of Association permit for monitoring and reporting on risks at Board level, identies the skills required of the Board of Directors to authorise a conict of faced by the Group: future Directors and makes recommendations interest or potential conict of interest notied by t it carried out an appraisal of the external to the Board as a whole.
A rigorous process a Director subject to conditions if appropriate, Auditor and Internal Audit function, the is in place for the appointment of new provided that the Board considers this to be in results of which were reported to the Board.
Directors, involving the use of external the best interests of the Company.
The Committee concluded that each area recruitment consultants followed by meetings operated satisfactorily during the year: Each of the Directors in ofce reviews their with the Committee and then with the Board.
individual position regularly and new Directors t it reviewed and updated the terms of The Committee had developed a succession review their individual positions prior to joining reference of the Audit Committee: and plan for the appointment of a new Chairman the Board.
Directors are reminded from time to t it oversaw the continuing development to replace Peter Johnson.
The Committee time of their obligations.
The Company has put and the operation of the Groups Workplace regarded the appointment of Gareth Davis as procedures in place via the Company Secretary Malpractice Policy.
Chairman as the best for the Company, based whereby the Directors can notify any future on his skill, experience and knowledge of the conicts or potential conicts of interest that may The performance of the Committee was Company.
Consequently the Committee did arise so that the Board can consider whether evaluated as part of the Board performance not consider it appropriate to place an external authorisation is appropriate.
Any notications evaluation process described above.
advertisement for the position of Chairman.
are reviewed at the next Board meeting and, if considered appropriate, authorised.
Directors Nomination Committee The performance of the Committee was do not participate in the discussion, or vote Gareth Davis became Chairman of the evaluated as part of the Board performance regarding their own conicts.
If authorised, any Nomination Committee on 4 January 2012, evaluation process described above.
conicts are entered in the Conicts Register.
taking over from Peter Johnson on his retirement Other Board Committees from the Board.
The other members of the An annual review of conicts is carried out and The Board has delegated certain powers, Nomination Committee are Miles Roberts, Chris this is incorporated into the year-end process mainly of a routine nature, to the General Bunker, Philippe Mellier and Jonathan Nicholls.
The procedures Purposes Committee, which comprises continue to operate effectively.
The Nomination Committee evaluates the the Group Chief Executive and the Group balance of skills, knowledge and experience Relations with shareholders Finance Director under the chairmanship of including the length of service of each Director the Group Chief Executive.
The Company has a programme of regular of the Board, develops role specications, meetings which sometimes includes the Non-Executive Directors objectives Objectives for the year Objectives for the year My primary responsibility is As Chairman of the Audit leading the Board, to promote Committee, my objective openness and effective debate, is to ensure that the Audit setting its agenda and ensuring Committee reviews and reports sufficient time is given to to the Board on the Groups strategic issues.
I am also financial reporting, internal responsible for ensuring that the control and risk management Board acts in the best interests systems and the independence of the Companys stakeholders and effectiveness of the Auditor.
and guiding the Companys business conduct and ethical standards.
Gareth Davis Jonathan Nicholls Chairman Chairman Audit Committee www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2012 40 Governance Chairman and the Senior Independent Director, shareholders after the formal business of the process for identifying, evaluating and site visits and results briengs with its major meeting.
To ensure compliance with the Code, managing the significant risks to the institutional shareholders, which provides Group.
These procedures have been in place separate resolutions are proposed on each opportunities to discuss the progress of the throughout the year under review and up to discrete subject.
All Directors will retire and business.
Presentations are conducted in stand for re-election.
To reect the voting the date of the approval of these financial accordance with the Financial Services preferences of all shareholders wishing to statements and have been reviewed by Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules vote at the meeting, the Company will take the Board during the year.
A Group Risk on the dissemination of inside information to a poll on all resolutions put to shareholders.
Committee, comprising the Group Steering ensure the protection of such information that The final results are published through a Team Group Chief Executive, Group Finance has not already been made available generally Regulatory Information Service and on the Director, Company Secretary, Group Human to the Companys shareholders.
The Board also website following the Meeting.
Resources Director, Chief Procurement officer receives feedback from major shareholders and Divisional Chief Executives meets regularly.
Regular communication with shareholders also following the full and half-year results.
Together, The Group Risk Committee discusses the key takes place through the Annual Report and via the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group risks facing the Group and whether there are the Companys website, www.
Finance Director, and Head of Investor Relations any material new risks, and the adequacy In addition, the Company provides Interim ensure the Board is fully briefed on shareholders and suitability of the mitigation arrangements Management Statements and trading updates.
views such that any issues or concerns are in place to manage those risks.
fully understood and considered by the Board.
Internal control The Senior Independent Director is available to The Board determines the objectives and The Board has overall responsibility for the discuss with shareholders any major issues that broad policies of the Group.
It meets regularly Groups system of internal control, including cannot be resolved through normal channels.
and there is a schedule of matters which financial, operational and compliance are required to be brought to it for decision.
controls, and risk management systems, and The Annual General Meeting is used as an The Board has delegated to management the for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system, opportunity to communicate with private responsibility for establishing a system of internal shareholders, including a short presentation on however, can only be designed to manage control appropriate to the business environments the business and current trading position as well rather than to eliminate risk and therefore can in which the Group operates.
Key elements as an opportunity for questions from investors provide only reasonable and not absolute of this system include: to the Chairman of the Board and the chairmen assurance against material misstatement or of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
In accordance with the Turnbull guidance, t a clearly dened divisionalised organisation All Directors who attend the Annual General the Company has in place the procedures structure for monitoring the conduct and Meeting make themselves available to meet necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing operations of individual business units: Objectives for the year Objectives for the year As Chairman of the As an independent nonRemuneration Committee Executive Director I feel I believe it is important that our that keeping an open and remuneration strategy ensures transparent culture is very that we continue to attract, important, whilst at the same reward and retain the key time maintaining a methodical people to drive the business and thorough approach to forward whilst retaining our our work.
As Senior Independent Director I am available to assist in resolving shareholder concerns Chris Bunker Philippe Mellier should alternative channels be Chairman Remuneration Non-Executive Director exhausted or inappropriate.
Committee DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 41 Corporate Governance continued t clear delegation of authority throughout The Board can confirm that it has carried out an annual review of the overall effectiveness the Group, starting with the matters reserved for the Board: of the Groups system of internal control and risk management procedures, during the year and t a formal process for ensuring that key risks up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
affecting all the Groups operations are This included a process of self-certication by identied and assessed on a regular basis, senior divisional management in which they together with the controls in place to mitigate were asked to confirm that their divisions have these risks.
Risk consideration is embedded complied with Group policies and procedures in decision-making processes.
The most and to report any significant control weaknesses significant risks are periodically reported identied during the past year.
In addition, to the Board and considered by it: it involved reviewing the results of the work t the preparation and review of comprehensive of the Groups Internal Audit function and the annual divisional and Group budgets and risk identication and management processes an annual review and approval by the Board identied above.
of the corporate strategy: Going concern t the monthly reporting of actual results In considering the going concern basis and their review against budget, forecasts for preparing the financial statements, the including bank covenant headroom and the Directors have considered the Companys previous year, with explanations obtained for objectives and strategy, risks and uncertainties all significant variances: in achieving its objectives and its review of t clearly dened policies for capital business performance which are all set out in expenditure and investment, including the Strategic summary, Operating review and appropriate authorisation levels, with larger Financial review sections of this Annual Report capital projects, acquisitions and disposals and Accounts.
The Groups liquidity and funding requiring Board approval: arrangements are described in notes 16 and 18 to the financial statements as well as in t procedures manuals laying down common the capital structure and treasury management control procedures and policies to apply section of the Financial Review and the Directors throughout the Group: consider that the Group has significant covenant t formal monthly meetings between the and liquidity headroom in its borrowing facilities Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance for the foreseeable future.
Director and divisional management to After reviewing the Companys expenditure discuss strategic, operational and financial issues: and commitments, current financial projections and expected future cash ows with appropriate t communicating key corporate values to sensitivities applied, together with the available all employees.
cash resources and undrawn committed The Groups Internal Audit function undertakes borrowing facilities and including consideration regular reviews of the individual businesses of the impact from the acquisition of SCA operations and their systems of internal control, Packaging, the Directors have considered makes recommendations to improve controls that adequate resources exist for the Company and follows up to ensure that management to continue in operational existence for the implement the recommendations made.
Accordingly, the Directors The Internal Audit plan is determined on a continue to adopt the going concern basis risk assessment basis and is reviewed and in preparing the financial statements.
approved by the Audit Committee.
Internal Audits findings are reported to Group and business area management as well as to the Audit Committee.
