Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc 26 Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 27 Corporate governance report 2011 12 summary Matt Davies appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee Chair.
Full compliance with the Corporate Governance Code at year end.
Corporate Governance presentation to investors held In January 2012.
All Directors submitted for re-appointment at the AGM.
Pro-active engagement with proxy advisers.
At our first Corporate Governance presentation held in January 2012, to which our major institutional investors were invited, we explained our approach to governance.
A copy of the presentation is available in the presentations section of our corporate website.
Our policy can be summarised as folllows: We believe that good governance leads to stronger value creation and lower risks for shareholders.
We support corporate governance guidelines and seek to apply them in a way that is meaningful to our business and consistent with our culture and values.
If we decide that the interests of the Company and its shareholders can be better served by doing things in a different way, we will explain the reasons why.
We believe that the Boards governance role consists of instilling and maintaining a culture of honesty, integrity and transparency throughout the business, through our policies, communications and by the way in which we act.
This report explains how we have applied the principles of good governance and code of best practice set out in the Corporate Governance Code the Corporate Governance Code published inJune2010.
At the end of the financial year, the Board considers that it is fully compliant with the Corporate Governance Code.
Board role and composition The Board has overall responsibility for controlling the Group, making decisions relating to the Groups strategic direction and measuring progress towards strategic goals.
Following the appointment of Matt Davies as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee on 8 February 2012, the Board balance and committee membership is now fully compliant with the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code.
The names and roles of each of the Directors is set out in the table below.
David Stead was also the Company Secretary prior to the appointment of Dawn Durrant on 17 November 2011.
The Board considers that Geoff Cooper was independent on appointment, and that Marion Sears, Simon Emeny and Matt Davies are independent.
Overall the Board considers that there is a good balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Board has adopted written statements setting out the respective responsibilities of the Chairman, Executive Deputy Chairman and the Chief Executive, these are available on the Groups website or from the Company Secretary.
In general terms, the Chairman is responsible for running the Board and the Chief Executive is responsible for running the Groups business, supported by the Executive Deputy Chairman who focuses specifically on strategic activities which protect and enhance shareholder value and embed the Companys culture and values.
Board process The Board held 11 meetings in the course of the year, one of which was dedicated to a formal review of strategy, and one of which comprised the Board evaluation.
Attendance at meetings was as follows: Director Role Meetings attended: Geoff Cooper Non-Executive Chairman 11 Marion Sears Senior Independent Director and Chair of Remuneration and Nominations Committees 11 Will Adderley Executive Deputy Chairman 8 Simon Emeny Independent Non-Executive Director 10 Nick Wharton Chief Executive 11 David Stead Finance Director 11 1 Matt Davies Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of Audit Committee 5 1 Matt Davies attended all Board meetings since his appointment.
Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc 28 Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 29 Corporate governance report continued There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision or approval, which was reviewed in 2011 and is available on the Groups website or from the Company Secretary.
Examples of such matters include Group strategy and budget, Group capital structure, approval of financial results and report and accounts, significant capital or contractual commitments, maintaining internal control and risk management, and approval of significant Group-wide policies.
At each meeting, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director report on operational performance including health and safety and the Finance Director reports on financial performance and position.
There is a rolling schedule of other operational, strategic and risk topics to be discussed, and other matters are debated by the Board as required, supported by a briefing paper where a decision is to be made.
Minutes of all Board and Committee meetings are taken by the Company Secretary and committee secretaries respectively and circulated for approval.
Any unresolved concerns raised by a Director are recorded in the minutes.
The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors meet from time to time without Executive Directors being present, and regularly have individual meetings with other senior managers in the business, usually at a store location.
In addition the Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity to meet at least once a year without the Chairman present as part of the Board effectiveness review process, which includes a formal review of the Chairmans performance.
Board committees The Board has appointed three committees, an Audit Committee, a Nominations Committee and a Remuneration Committee.
The terms of reference of each of these committees, which were updated in 2011, can be found on the Groups website and are available from the Company Secretary.
Details of the membership of the committees and of their activities during the past financial year, can be found in the reports from the Chair of each of the committees on pages 33 to 47.
Appointment and removal of Directors The Articles of Association of the Company provide that a Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the Companys shareholders in general meeting, or by the Board so long as the Director stands down and offers himself for election at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Articles also provide that each Director must stand down and offer him or herself for re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting at least every three years.
The Board has decided to adopt the requirement of the Corporate Governance Code, that all Directors should stand down and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors may be removed by a special resolution of shareholders, or by an ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Articles also provide that the office of a Director shall be vacated if he is prohibited by law from being a director, or is bankrupt: and that the Board may resolve that his office be vacated if he is of unsound mind or is absent from Board meetings without consent for six months or more.
A Director may also resign from the Board.
The Nominations Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and removal of Directors.
In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will retire from the Board and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Powers of Directors In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of Association, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all of the powers of the Company, subject to the requirements of the Companies Acts, the Articles of Association of the Company, and any special resolution of the Company.
As stated above, the Board has adopted internal delegations of authority in accordance with the Code, and these set out matters which are reserved to the Board or committees and the powers and duties of the Chairman, the Executive Deputy Chairman and the Chief Executive respectively.
At the Annual General Meetings of the Company from 2007 onwards, the Board sought and was given authority to issue shares and to buy back and re-issue shares, subject to the limits imposed by law and those set out in the text of the resolution.
Similar resolutions are being tabled at the 2012 Annual General Meeting, together with a waiver of any obligation of Will Adderley under the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers to make an offer for all of the shares of the Company if the authority to buy back shares is used.
For further details see the Notice of Annual General Meeting which accompanies this report.
Advice and insurance All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
In addition Directors may seek legal advice at the Groups cost if they consider it necessary in connection with their duties.
The Group purchases Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover for its Directors.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc 28 Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 29 Training Upon joining the Board, any new Director is offered a comprehensive and tailored induction programme with visits to key sites and meetings with senior managers and other colleagues.
As part of each Directors annual review any additional training or development needs are addressed.
Please see the Directors biographies on pages 22 and 23 for details of the specific skills and experience of each Director.
Throughout the year all Directors have maintained a regular series of visits to stores and meetings with members of the senior management team.
The Company Secretary reports monthly to the Board on new legal, regulatory and governance developments that affect the Company.
The Board also received presentations from independent advisers on financial and governance issues.
Directors attend seminars and tutorials provided by independent organisations which cover the whole range of governance topics.
Evaluation The Chairman appraises the performance of the Chief Executive with regard to personal objectives agreed at the start of each financial year.
The Chief Executive similarly appraises the performance of other Executive Directors.
Separately the Senior Independent Director meets with the other Non-Executive Directors to evaluate the Chairmans performance.
There is a formal, rigorous and well established process for evaluating the performance of the other Non-Executive Directors, the Board Committees and the Board as a whole.
A questionnaire is circulated to all Directors, to seek their views on matters such as the effectiveness of meetings, the approach to strategy and risk, succession planning and the AGM.
The completed questionnaire forms the basis of a discussion between the Chairman and each Director.
The Chairman presents the overall result back to the Board at a Board meeting convened solely for this purpose.
During the course of this meeting there is the opportunity for the Chairman or other Directors to be asked to leave the discussion whilst their performance is assessed.
Following the Board review a list of actions is formulated and progress against these is monitored periodically by the Board.
In the review which took place during the period these actions included a restructuring of Board agendas to provide additional focus on strategic issues, a review of how the Board communicates with all of its stakeholders and an extension of the Boards review of succession planning activity below senior management level.
The Board considers that this process is effective for a small and very open Board: it will be assessing tenders for an external review of the Board during the next financial year.
Conflicts of interest The Companies Act 2006 allows the Board of a public company to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest of individual directors where the Articles of Association contain a provision to that effect.
The Companys Articles of Association give the Board this authority subject to the following safeguards: Directors who have an interest in matters under discussion at a Board meeting must declare that interest and abstain from voting.
Only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to approve a conflict of interest and, in taking that decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the Company.
The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they feel this is appropriate.
All Directors are required to disclose any actual or potential conflicts to the Board and the following existing conflicts have been considered and approved: Will Adderley is a major shareholder and connected to other major shareholders.
Authorised on the basis that Mr Adderley continues to abide by the terms of the Relationship Agreement entered into between himself, other major shareholders and the Company on flotation of the Company in 2006.
Geoff Cooper is a Director of Travis Perkins plc which potentially competes with the Company for retail property.
Authorised on the basis that Mr Cooper is not involved in day to day decisions in relation to the property portfolio in either company.
There were no other matters disclosed that are considered by the Board to give rise to a conflict of interest.
Any conflicts considered by the Board and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and reviewed annually by the Board.
The Board considers that its procedures to approve conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc 30 Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 31 Corporate governance report continued Risk management Throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report there has been in place an established, ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The process has been reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board and is in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control for Directors.
A register of major strategic and operational risks is maintained.
Each risk is documented, together with the mitigating factors and controls in place to manage it.
Risks are assessed in terms of impact and likelihood, and the top 10 risks are identified for specific focus.
A member of the Operating Board is allocated responsibility for management of each risk.
The register is reviewed twice per annum by the Board, which also monitors the status of agreed actions.
The Operating Board and other senior colleagues review the risks once a year in a workshop and the Operating Board reviews the register quarterly throughout the year.
Important strategic or operational risk areas, such as loss of competitive position, health and safety, property portfolio, attracting and retaining key personnel, are considered regularly by the Board.
Risk topics selected by the Audit Committee are considered in-depth at Board meetings, supported by a paper prepared by the relevant executive.
In the period topics covered included IT security, supply chain security, property risk, disaster planning and insurance.
Internal control The Board accepts its responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material loss and misstatement.
The system of internal control comprises: A well established control framework comprising clear structures and accountabilities, well understood policies and procedures and budgeting and review processes.
Each store manager has clear responsibilities and operates within defined policies and procedures covering such areas as financial targets, human resources management, customer service, health and safety.
The Executive Directors monitor compliance with these policies and procedures in the course of regular reviews.
In addition there is a rolling programme of review of store compliance by the operational audit team.
The Audit Committee considers annually whether an internal audit function is required, and did so again in May 2012.
It does not currently consider that this is necessary in view of the adequacy of internal and risk management controls and reporting in place, the relatively low level of complexity in the business and the close involvement of the Executive Directors in the operation of the business.
This assessment was supported by KPMG.
In the financial year, as part of our increased focus on fraud risk, a third party end to end review of all our payment controls, processes and authorities was performed.
Whilst there were no significant deficiencies resulting from this review, there were a series of recommended actions, which have been implemented during the year.
Bribery Act 2010 Following the coming into force of the Bribery Act in July 2011, we have reviewed the procedures in place to ensure that we are able to comply with its requirements.
Actions taken include: Anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy implemented.
The policy on acceptance of gifts and other privileges has been updated and a formal procedure has been implemented for signing off and logging hospitality.
Operating Board members and Heads of Department have received training and also signed a declaration of compliance, which will be an annual process.
Standard terms and conditions for suppliers have been amended to include a Bribery Act clause.
The Whistleblowing Policy has been amended to specifically refer to the Bribery Act.
Further actions are planned in the next financial year, to include additional training and more detailed due diligence with suppliers.
Investor relations and understanding shareholder views There is a formal investor relations programme based around results presentations and trading statements, as well as the corporate governance presentation referred to above.
We also periodically hold a specific presentation to analysts in store, the most recent event was on 13 July 2012 at our Milton Keynes store.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director report back to the Board after meetings with analysts and shareholders and the Company brokers attend a Board meeting annually to feed back investor views.
The Non-Executive Directors are present at results presentations and also attend meetings with shareholders.
All Directors will be available at the Annual General Meeting to meet with shareholders and answer their questions.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc 30 Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 31 We plan to repeat our invitation to the corporate governance representatives of our major institutional shareholders to attend a presentation inJanuary2013.
This is designed to allow us to communicate our approach to governance and to facilitate discussion with our shareholders outside of the busy Annual Report and AGM timetable.
Again, this will be hosted by the Chairman, the Non-Executive Directors and Will Adderley, the Executive Deputy Chairman, representing the majority family shareholding.
The other executives will not be present.
During the year we also met or had contact with representatives of the main proxy advisers in the United Kingdom and have planned follow-up meetings with them.
The purpose of this is to explain our approach to governance topics outside of the short timescales dictated by the AGM timetable, to enable a better evaluation of our Annual Report.
Significant shareholders The Groups significant shareholders are listed in the Directors report on page 26 and voting rights are stated on page 24.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution of shareholders.
