Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc 36 Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 37 Nominations Committee report 2011 12 summary Appointment of Matt Davies as Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee Chair.
Detailed review of Board skills and experience repeated.
Update of Board succession plan.
Review of talent supply within the business.
This report provides details of the role of the Nominations Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board by keeping the composition of the Board under review and conducting a rigorous and transparent process when new appointments to the Board are made.
The full terms of reference for the committee can be found on the Companys website.
The following Directors served on the committee during the year: Member Period from: To: Marion Sears Chair 18 January 2005 To date Geoff Cooper 18 January 2005 To date Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 To date Will Adderley 17 February 2011 To date Matt Davies 8 February 2012 To date Four meetings were held in the year and members attendance was as shown in the table below.
Marion Sears also acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Member Meetings attended: Marion Sears Chair 4 Geoff Cooper 4 Simon Emeny 4 Will Adderley 3 1 Matt Davies 0 1 There were no meetings between 8 February when Matt Davies joined the Board and the year end.
General succession planning The Committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the Board as a whole and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of the Directors.
On at least an annual basis each Directors intentions are discussed with regard to serving on the Board and their succession is considered in the context of the shape of the overall Board and the corporate governance guidance on NED tenure.
This transparency amongst a small and collegiate Board allows for an open discussion about succession for each individual, both for short term emergency purposes as well as longer term retirement plans.
While all Board appointment processes and succession discussions are led by the Nominations Committee these are viewed as important whole-Board topics and no appointment will be made to the Board without unanimous agreement of all Directors.
Committee activities in 2011 12 NED search Last year we stated that we were continuing to search for an additional Non-Executive Director to replace Nick Wharton.
In February 2012 we were pleased to announce the appointment of Matt Davies as Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee.
We engaged an executive search firm to conduct this search on our behalf.
Matts most recent executive role was as Chief Executive of Pets at Home.
He held that position between 2004 and 2012, having joined the business as Group Finance Director in 2001.
During his time at Pets at Home he developed the business significantly, organically through new store openings, through services, and by e-commerce.
Prior to Pets at Home Matt was Finance Director of a distribution business within Caudwell Communications before which he worked in mergers and acquisitions.
Matt began his career at Arthur Anderson where he qualified as a chartered accountant in 1995. Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc 36 Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 37 In our search for an additional Non-Executive Director to join the Board, the Nominations Committee set out a number of criteria, consistent with Dunelms strategy and likely development.
Matt matches these criteria very closely: Strong relevant experience in retail or similar business.
An executive with up-to-date operational experience.
Experience of the strategy and practical application of branding and marketing in a retail business.
Relevant financial experience to chair the Audit Committee, but not only having had financial roles.
Awareness of the particular culture of entrepreneurially led businesses, and of the challenges they face with rapid growth.
The Board also had regard to the requirement to achieve a diversity of characters, backgrounds and experiences amongst Board members.
In particular, notwithstanding that there has been female representation on the Board since 2004, it asked its nominated search adviser to prioritise the presentation of suitably qualified women.
Although females were equally represented on our shortlist, Matt was clearly the best candidate.
Board succession As stated in last years report, the committee is aware that both Geoff Cooper and I have served on the Board for more than six years since flotation of the Company, and that the Corporate Governance Code requires a careful consideration of our continued contribution, balanced against the value of refreshing Board membership.
In the past financial year, in the context of the Chief Executive succession, we considered that maintaining Board stability outweighed other considerations.
In addition Matt Davies has introduced another perspective to Board debate.
The Nominations Committee and the Board have increased their focus on succession planning activities at Board level, and as a result we now have a formal plan for how Board membership should develop over the coming years, and we are taking actions to implement this.
Skills balance and Directors Performance Evaluation The Nominations Committee reviews Board composition and the balance of skills provided by the directors in a whole Board session each year.
In 2012 we have repeated the detailed review conducted during 2010 11 of the skills that a company might require and each director has been assessed against these.
The results of this have been incorporated into our Board succession plan.
In addition, the performance of all of the directors has been assessed individually.
The Chairman of the Board led a process of collecting feedback on each directors performance and provided them with a one-to-one evaluation and discussion of training needs.
As Senior Independent Director I collected feedback about the Chairman and provided him with an evaluation of his performance.
Diversity In 2011 we set out the Boards policy on diversity which can be summarised as follows: Whilst confirming that our overriding concern is to ensure the Board comprises outstanding individuals who can lead the Company, we also believe the Companys best interests are served by ensuring that these individuals represent a range of skills, experiences, backgrounds and perspectives, including gender.
Accordingly, it is our policy that the Board should always be of mixed gender.
Quotas are not appropriate as a target for female representation on company Boards, since they are likely to lead to compromised decisions on Board membership, quality and size.
We will seek to ensure that specific effort is made to bring forward female candidates for Board appointments.
We will monitor the Companys approach to development to ensure that it continues to enable talented individuals, both male and female, to enjoy career progression activities within Dunelm.
Re-election of Directors In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will seek re-election at the 2012 AGM.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 13 September 2012.
Marion Sears Chair of the Nominations Committee
