Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc 32 Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 33 Audit Committee report 2011 12 summary Matt Davies becomes committee Chair in February 2012.
More focus on fraud risk, including detailed review of payment controls by a third party, leading to strengthened anti-fraud measures.
Introduction of a schedule of risk topics to be reviewed in-depth by the Board.
This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The purpose of the committee is to oversee the integrity of the Groups financial statements and public announcements relating to financial performance, to oversee the audit process, monitor the effectiveness of financial controls and the process for identifying and managing risk throughout the Group.
The full terms of reference for the committee can be found via the Companys website, www.
The committee has approved a policy which allows employees to raise legitimate concerns in confidence without fear of discrimination.
The following Directors served on the committee during the year: Member Period from: To: Matt Davies Chair 8 February 2012 To date Geoff Cooper acting Chair 1 December 2010 8 February 2012 Marion Sears 18 January 2005 To date Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 To date I have been Chairman of the committee since my appointment to the Board on 8 February 2012.
Prior to that, Geoff Cooper was acting Chair following the resignation of Nick Wharton when he assumed his executive role on 1 December 2010.
The Board considers that I have recent and relevant financial experience by virtue of my professional qualification and my recent executive role as Chief Executive of Pets at Home Limited.
The Finance Director and the Chairman of the Board usually attend meetings by invitation, along with a representative from the external auditors.
Committee activities in 2011 12 Three meetings were held in the year and members attendance was as shown in the table below.
Marion Sears also acted as Secretary to the committee until the appointment of Dawn Durrant as Company Secretary in November 2011.
Member Meetings attended: 1 Matt Davies 1 Geoff Cooper acting Chair until 8 February 2012 2 Marion Sears 3 Simon Emeny 2 1 Matt Davies has attended all committee meetings since his appointment.
During the year the activities of the committee included: Approval of the full year results issued in September 2011 and the half year results issued in February 2012. Review of the requirement for an internal audit function we continue to consider that this is not required in view of the adequacy of financial controls in place and the relatively low level of complexity in the business, and this is supported by KPMG.
Introduction of a schedule of risk topics to be considered in-depth at Board meetings these included IT security, supply chain security, property risk, disaster planning and insurance during the period.
End to end review by a third party of all of our payment controls, processes and authorities.
Whilst there were no significant deficiencies resulting from this review, there were a series of recommended actions, which have been implemented during the year.
The Finance Director also now presents a fraud report at each committee meeting.
Review and confirmation of the Groups policy for use of the auditors for non-audit work: the committee has approved a policy that the auditors should only be used for non-audit work if they offer demonstrably better capability than alternative providers and there is no potential conflict with the independence of the audit.
Verification of the independence of the auditor, and approval of the scope of the audit plan and the audit fee.
Review of the processes that have been introduced following the Bribery Act for further details please see the Corporate Governance report.
Monitoring the current proposals by the United Kingdom Financial Reporting Council and by the European Union that would require companies to tender their external auditor.
Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc 34 Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 35 Audit Committee report continued External auditor The Group reappointed KPMG Audit Plc as external auditor for the financial year ended 30 June 2012.
The Group paid KPMG 75,000 in relation to the statutory audit of the Group and Company financial statements and the audit of Group subsidiaries pursuant to legislation.
The Group also paid KPMG 74,000 in relation to other non-audit services which mainly consisted of tax compliance and tax planning initiatives.
The committee had the opportunity to meet privately with the auditor in the course of each meeting during the period.
In addition, I held private discussions with the audit partner following my appointment.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 13 September 2012.
Matt Davies Chair of the Audit Committee
