Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc 34 Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 35 Letter from the Chair of the Nominations Committee Dear Shareholder, The focus for the Nominations Committee over the past year has been to find a new Non-Executive Director to chair the Audit Committee as a final step following the CEO succession which took place in 2010 11.
We were delighted to announce the appointment of Matt Davies as our new Non-Executive in February and as expected, he has already contributed in many ways to strategic discussions as well as demonstrating that he is very able to chair the Audit Committee.
With Matts appointment we are compliant in terms of Board balance between executives and independent directors.
Having regard to our diversity policy, as we did on Matts appointment, we will make a specific effort to ensure that suitably qualified female candidates are brought forward for consideration as Board vacancies arise.
During the year we have reviewed, as a full Board, the talent in the business across all levels of management in store and in support functions.
The purpose of the exercise has been to create an on-going process which identifies and can nurture a supply of future executives required within our expanded business.
As Dunelm continues to grow it will be important to balance internal promotion, key to preserving our culture, with external recruitment to provide new capability and fresh perspective.
As part of our approach to ensure this blend we had a successful first graduate recruitment process in 2010 11 and in 2011 12 we have hired 21 new graduates to help boost the early stages of our human talent supply pipeline.
Looking forward, we will address the fact that Geoff, Simon and I all joined the Board around the time of IPO.
We are proceeding on the basis that a continual, but measured, refreshment programme over the medium term will maintain the strength and unity of the Board whilst at the same time bringing fresh thinking in areas that will be important to Dunelms future.
The evaluation of the Nominations Committee took place as part of the Board evaluation.
We continue to regard Board appointments as whole Board business which must be unanimous and we have just completed an updated Board skills analysis which will inform future recruitment.
Yours sincerely, Marion Sears Chair of the Nominations Committee 13 September 2012
