Dun Dune ellm m G Gr ro oup up p pllc c Dunelm Group plc 22 22 A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 12 2 Annual report and accounts 2012 23 Directors and Officers Bill Adderley Founder and Life President Bill Adderley, together with his wife Jean, founded the business in 1979.
Although no longer on the Board or actively involved in management, Bill and Jean remain major shareholders.
Geoff Cooper Non-Executive Chairman Attends Audit Committee by invitation.
Key strengths: A current CEO with extensive experience in international general management, the retail sector, finance and IT.
Long-standing Plc experience and shareholder understanding.
Dunelm role: Chairs the Board.
Attends and speaks at Store Managers Seminars.
Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues and members of the senior management team.
Leads investor presentations and attends shareholder meetings.
Formerly a Director of Gateway subsequently Somerfield plc.
Then Finance Director and subsequently Deputy Chief Executive of Alliance UniChem Plc.
Other Commitments: Chief Executive of Travis Perkins Plc.
Nick Wharton Chief Executive Officer Key strengths: Finance background, plc board experience and shareholder understanding, predominantly in retail.
Strong process and operational focus.
Knowledge and experience of e-commerce and Continental European retail markets.
Dunelm role: Leads the Company and chairs the Operating Board.
In addition to his Board role, provides liaison with the Remuneration Committee for pay below board level.
Joined Dunelm Board: August 2009 as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
Appointed as CEO-designate in December 2010 and became CEO in February 2011.
Formerly Finance Director of Halfords Group Plc.
Will Adderley Executive Deputy Chairman Attends Remuneration Committee by request.
Key strengths: Has worked in, and is familiar with, all parts of the Group.
Specific product strengths in buying and trading with strong and long-standing supplier relationships.
Has been instrumental in growing the Group to its current size having, as the former CEO, developed the out-of-town format in the late 1990s.
Dunelm role: Is a major shareholder and spends the majority of his time out in stores and with a focus on long term strategy.
Joined Dunelm Board: 1992, and has worked for Dunelm for his whole career.
He took over the day-to-day running of the Group from his father in 1996.
Remained as Chief Executive through the Groups IPO in 2006.
Became Deputy Chairman in February 2011.
Previous Experience: All parts of Dunelms business.
Audit Committee Member Nominations Committee Member Remuneration Committee Member Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Dun Dune ellm m G Gr ro oup up p pllc c 22 Annual report and accounts 2012 A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 12 2 23 23 David Stead Executive Finance Director Key strengths: Finance background and extensive Plc experience.
Understanding of investor community and company secretarial matters.
An experienced strategic and financial perspective across all Group functions.
Dunelm role: Leads the finance department.
Also has responsibility for HR and IT.
Participates in Audit Committee meetings by request and sits on the Operating Board.
Formerly 14 years at Boots where he was Finance Director of Boots The Chemists and Finance Director of Boots Healthcare International.
Simon Emeny Non-Executive Director Key strengths: A current CEO with extensive general management experience in a retail model, customer service and hospitality expertise.
Dunelm role: Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues and members of the senior management team.
Attends investor presentations and shareholder meetings.
Previous Experience: Sales and marketing, customer service and general management in the brewing and hospitality sector.
Other Commitments: Group Managing Director of Fuller Smith and Turner Plc.
Marion Sears Non-Executive Senior Independent Director Chair of Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Key strengths: Extensive City, investor and banking experience including mergers and acquisitions.
Dunelm role: Regularly visits stores to meet store staff and members of the senior management team.
Together with the Chairman, takes specific responsibility for co-ordinating the Boards corporate governance duties and for liaising with shareholders on corporate governance matters.
Previous Experience: Robert Fleming, JP Morgan Investment Banking.
Other Commitments: Senior Independent Director of Zetar Plc, Non-Executive Director of Octopus AIM VCT Plc.
Matt Davies Non-Executive Director Chair of Audit Committee.
Key strengths: A former CEO with extensive general management experience in retail with focus on HR, marketing, trading and customer service.
A successful track record of building a branded out-of-town retail group nationwide in the UK with a strong service offer.
Experience of the private equity industry and business model.
Formerly CEO of Pets atHome.
Dawn Durrant Company Secretary Key strengths: Extensive Plc company secretarial and legal experience including corporate governance, legal and regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, company and commercial, retail and consumer law.
Dunelm role: Responsible for governance, legal and regulatory matters.
Joined Dunelm Board: November 2011 Previous Experience: Qualified as a solicitor at Allen & Overy.
Company Secretary of Geest Plc.
Other Commitments: Company secretarial consultant to Spicers Limited.
