corporate governance introduction the Board Aggreko is committed to maintaining high standards of The Board currently comprises a Chairman, Chief corporate governance.
Not many public companies state Executive, four other Executive Directors and five that they are committed to maintaining low standards Non-executive Directors: their details are set out of corporate governance, so we think it is useful to state, on pages 54 and 55.
The Nomination Committee as precisely as we are able, what we mean by this.
regularly reviews the composition of the Board to ensure that we have an appropriate and diverse mix of skills, First, we mean that we take governance at all levels experience, independence and knowledge of the Group.
in the Company seriously, and we think about it.
Second, it means that we do not slavishly follow the During the year and into the early part of 2013, strictures and advice of every governance guru or a number of changes have been made to the Board, expert body, but we try to adopt those approaches particularly following the announcement in September that we believe are likely to work in the particular 2012 of our new global management structure.
All of context of Aggrekos business and culture, and which the changes made in 2012 and to date in 2013 are set promote the following: out below: Transparency: giving shareholders the information Philip Rogerson resigned from the Board as a they need to judge whether the executive Director and Chairman at the close of our AGM management and the Board are doing a good on 25 April 2012. job on their behalf: Ken Hanna was appointed as Chairman from Effective decision-making, risk management the close of the AGM on 25 April 2012. and control: Diana Layfield was appointed to the Board A proper balance between Executive and as a Non-executive Director on 1 May 2012.
Non-executive Directors: Rebecca McDonald was appointed to the Board Keeping the interests of the owners of the business as a Non-executive Director on 1 October 2012. aligned with, and at the front of the mind of, the people charged with managing the business: and Bill Caplan resigned from the Board as an Executive Director and Regional Director of Europe and the The ability of the Company to hear the voice of Middle East on 13 November 2012. people other than shareholders who are touched by it.
Principally these are regulatory and standards Kash Pandya resigned from the Board as an bodies, employees, customers, suppliers and the Executive Director and Regional Director of communities in which we operate International on 31 December 2012. being mindful of the need to keep the amount of George Walker resigned from the Board as an money and time spent on activities other than those Executive Director and President of North America involving making money for our shareholders to an on 31 December 2012. appropriate level.
Debajit Das was appointed to the Board as an putting governance into practice Executive Director to fulfil the role of Regional Director of Asia Pacific on 1 January 2013.
We support the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council the Asterios Satrazemis was appointed to the Board as Code.
We consider that the Group complied with an Executive Director to fulfil the role of Regional all of the provisions of the Code throughout the Director of the Americas on 1 January 2013. year ended 31 December 2012 with one exception.
This exception was the provision that at least half David Taylor-Smith was appointed to the Board as of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be an Executive Director to fulfil the role of Regional independent Non-executive Directors.
However, Director of Europe, the Middle East and Africa with following the appointment of Rebecca McDonald effect from 11 March 2013. on 1 October 2012 we consider Aggreko to be fully compliant with the Code.
Full details of our current Board members can be found on pages 54 and 55.
Copies of the Code are publicly available at www.
56 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Corporate Governance: undertaking a review of role oF the Board its own performance and that of its committees, The Board focuses on: the independence of the Non-executive Directors and reviewing the governance framework in place.
driving the Groups long term objectives and commercial strategy: roleS oF the chairMan, chieF executive and Senior oversight of our operations to ensure we independent director have competent and prudent management: We have a defined division of responsibilities between sound planning and adequate internal control: the Non-executive Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director, which we reviewed as part developing strong leadership and succession: and of the corporate governance review undertaken in 2012. protecting our reputation and the strong The Chairman is primarily responsible for leadership relationships we have with customers, suppliers of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects and employees.
of its role and setting the agenda to take full account of the issues and concerns of the Board Members.
We have a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board.
These matters are significant to The Chief Executive is responsible for leading, the Group as a whole owing to their strategic, financial managing and controlling the Company and its or reputational implications.
We undertook a thorough subsidiaries, subject to those matters which are review of our corporate governance framework and reserved for decision by the Board, and ensuring associated policies during the year, which included that decisions of the Board are implemented.
an overhaul of the schedule of matters reserved for the Board, dividing the schedule into 10 distinct areas The Senior Independent Director is responsible for of responsibility.
Amongst the matters reserved for providing a sounding board for the Chairman, serving decision by the Board are: as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary and is available to meet with shareholders.
Strategy & Management: approval of and monitoring delivery of the strategy, budgets non-executive directorS and oversight of Group operations.
Our Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of experience to the Company.
David Hamill, Russell Structure & Capital: approval of changes to King, Diana Layfield, Robert MacLeod and Rebecca the corporate or capital structure of the Group.
McDonald are considered by the Board to be independent as defined in the Code.
Financial Reporting & Controls: approval of the annual, half-yearly and interim management David Hamill is the Senior Independent Director statements.
and is available to meet shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels Internal Controls: ensuring a sound system of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial of internal control and risk management.
Officer has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Contracts: approval of major capital expenditure or strategically important contracts.
The Code states that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be independent Communications: approval of shareholder Non-executive Directors.
For reasons explained in our communications.
previous annual reports, we had preferred to operate with a maximum of ten Directors.
However, as Board Membership & Other Appointments: Aggrekos business has grown and we have expanded approval of Board appointments and removals and into new geographies, technologies and sectors, ensuring adequate succession planning is in place.
we felt that we should broaden the range of skills and experience held by our Non-executive Directors.
Remuneration: approval of new share plans or Therefore, we appointed two new Non-executive changes to existing share plans and remuneration Directors this year: Diana Layfield was appointed for the Non-executive Directors.
on 1 May 2012 bringing with her a wealth of experience directly relevant to Aggreko and in Delegation of Authority: division of responsibilities depth knowledge of many of our most important between the Chairman and the Chief Executive markets: Rebecca McDonald was appointed on and responsibilities of the Board Committees.
1 October 2012 with extensive knowledge of the Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57 corporate governance CONTINUED international energy markets: she is also an experienced of Finance, Group Treasurer, Director of Internal Non-executive Director.
The Board now comprises Audit, Chief Information Officer and Group Human 11 Directors: including five independent Non-executive Resources Director.
Meetings are then scheduled with Directors: we therefore comply fully with the Code the Regional Directors of the business areas and their on this point.
We also arrange for new Non-executive Directors to meet the principal partner of our induction, developMent and Support External Auditors.
We make sure that all new Directors receive a full, Asterios Satrazemis and Debajit Das were appointed formal and tailored induction on joining the Board, to the Board from within the business.
Since both as we explain in more detail below.
Also we plan our already had extensive knowledge of Aggreko, Board calendar to ensure that Directors are briefed their induction focussed on their new roles and on a wide range of topics throughout the year.
These responsibilities as members of the Board.
topics range from those with particular relevance for our business, such as world energy demand, to more Board coMMitteeS general matters such as developments in corporate governance.
We recognise that our Directors have The Board has standing Audit, Ethics, Nomination a diverse range of experience, and so we encourage and Remuneration Committees.
The memberships, them to attend external seminars and briefings that roles and activities of these Committees are detailed will assist them individually.
in separate reports: Audit Committee on pages 62 to 65, Ethics Committee on pages 66 to 67, Directors have access to independent professional Nomination Committee on pages 68 to 69 and advice at the Companys expense where they judge Remuneration Committee on pages 70 to 87. this to be necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors and all Directors have access to the Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of advice and services of the Company Secretary, who reference approved by, the Board and the minutes is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board of the Committee meetings are circulated to, and procedures are complied with.
The terms of reference of the standing Committees of the Board were updated During the full year we supported induction as part of the governance review undertaken in 2012, programmes for our new Non-executive Directors, and are available on our website at http: ir.
com Diana Layfield and Rebecca McDonald, and for .
our two new Executive Directors, Debajit Das and Asterios Satrazemis.
Executive Committee The Chief Executive chairs the Companys Executive Typical Non-executive Director induction programme Committee, which comprises the Executive Directors, Our induction programme aims to give new Nontogether with the heads of the main Group functions.
executive Directors a thorough grounding in Aggrekos Following the announcement of the reorganisation business and a clear understanding of their roles and of the Group in September, these individuals are: responsibilities.
We aim to complete the induction the Group Human Resources Director, the Chief programme within a few months of their appointment.
Information Officer, the Group Sales & Marketing Director, the Group Operations Director, the Newly appointed Non-executive Directors typically Group Commercial Director, the Group Business begin their inductions with a meeting with the Development Director and the Group Legal Director Company Secretary on Directors duties, conflicts & Company Secretary.
The role of the Executive of interest, corporate governance, Board procedures, Committee is to support the Chief Executive and Group policies and the use of our electronic Board as such it has no formal terms of reference.
This is followed by a tour of our manufacturing facility in Dumbarton with the Group Chief Executive Board MeetingS where he explains Aggrekos business models, Group The Board generally meets at least six times each year.
strategy, markets, competition, products and corporate At each meeting, the Board receives certain regular responsibility.
Whilst at the manufacturing site, new reports, for example covering current trading, treasury, Non-executive Directors meet with the Director of and environment, health and safety.
At particular Manufacturing for an overview of the manufacturing points in the year, the Board reviews budgets, capital business, our products and work into research and expenditure, risks and financial statements.
An induction meeting is also scheduled also has regular updates on strategy and reviews other with the Chief Financial Officer to cover the business topics, in particular to cover some of the principal plan, budget, KPIs, financial planning, reporting and risks and uncertainties facing the business, as identified investor relations.
Following this, further meetings on on pages 29 to 33, or to address the issues raised in head office functions are scheduled with the Director the previous years Board evaluation.
Each year we 58 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report also review the senior management succession plan Effectiveness for the Group, with the Group Human Resources Appointed 2 new Non-executive Directors.
Director providing a briefing on senior management Overseeing the restructuring of the regional moves and each Executive Director leading a business units.
discussion on the succession plan for his region or Focussing on succession within the business, function.
In addition, each Regional Director gives reviewing and identifying talented individuals a detailed annual presentation on the performance for current and future succession.
The Board also receives reports on what others think about us: gets copies of investor Accountability and analyst feedback, customer satisfaction metrics, Reviewing corporate governance policies and the results of employee surveys.
and Board Committee terms of reference.
Assessing the effectiveness of the framework The Board generally meets in central London or at of delegated authorities.
the Group head office in Glasgow, but at least one Managing the risks of our operations and meeting each year is held at one of the Groups other business functions in overseas countries.
locations, which gives the Directors the opportunity to review the operations and meet local management.
Relations with shareholders In June 2012, the Board visited the London 2012 Engaging with shareholders at the AGM at our new Olympic Site.
factory in Dumbarton, where shareholders received a presentation and tour around the new facility.
Board activitieS in 2012 Completing the return of capital to shareholders.
Some of the key activities that the Board has covered The attendance of Directors at meetings during 2012 over the past year are: is set out in the table at the foot of this page.
Leadership The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-executive Overseeing the expansion of the Local Business Directors without the Executive Directors present, and through the Poit Energia acquisition, a leading at least once a year the Senior Independent Director provider of temporary power solutions in chairs a meeting of the Non-executive Directors South America.
Updating the 5 year Group strategy, setting new goals and priorities for the business.
Approving investment in new fleet.
Close monitoring of the preparation and delivery of the 2012 London Olympics.
attendance at MeetingS in 2012 Audit Remuneration Ethics Nomination Board meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Bill Caplan 5 6 Angus Cockburn 7 7 David Hamill 7 7 3 3 4 4 3 3 6 6 Ken Hanna 7 7 1 1 4 4 3 3 6 6 Russell King 7 7 3 3 4 4 6 6 2 Diana Layfield 4 4 2 2 Robert MacLeod 7 7 3 3 4 4 6 6 3 Rebecca McDonald 2 2 0 0 Kash Pandya 7 7 4 Philip Rogerson 3 3 1 1 2 2 Rupert Soames 7 7 6 6 George Walker 7 7 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
1 Resigned from the Board on 13 November 2012.
2 Appointed to the Board on 1 May 2012.
3 Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2012, appointed to the Remuneration Committee 13 December 2012.
4 Resigned from the Board on 25 April 2012.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59 corporate governance CONTINUED relations advisers.
In addition, the Senior Independent election oF directorS Director is available to meet shareholders if they wish In accordance with the Code, all members of the to raise any issues separately.
Board will be offering themselves for re-election or election in the case of our new Directors at the 2013 We formally speak to the market six times a year with Annual General Meeting.
It is part of the Chairmans Interim Management Statement Updates in April and role to discuss the time commitment and contribution October, Pre-close Updates for the Half Year and Full of each Non-executive Director as part of his or her Year in June and December, and the formal production individual appraisal, and the Nomination Committee of reports at the Half Year Interim Report in August unanimously recommends the reappointment of and the Full Year Report and Accounts in March.
The each of the Directors.
formal reporting is underpinned by a number of other activities: on the day that the results are released in All of the Directors have service agreements or letters August and March we present to analysts and investors of appointment and the details of their terms are set in London, these presentations are also broadcast out in the Remuneration Report on pages 75 and 85. live through our investor website and are available No other contract with the Company or any subsidiary to view after the event on our website.
The Interim undertaking of the Company in which any Director Management Statements are also supported on the was materially interested subsisted during or at the day of their release with a conference call open to end of the financial year.
all analysts and investors and Pre-close Updates are supported with one-to-one meetings with analysts.
Board perForMance evaluation In 2011 we conducted our annual evaluation of Board In 2012 we held over 250 one-to-one meetings with and Committee performance through an independent investors.
These meetings are conducted by at least external consultancy.
This year the process was one of the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer conducted personally by Ken Hanna shortly after or Director of Finance and where appropriate, senior his appointment as Chairman, through individual members of the regional teams are also invited to meetings with each member of the Board.
Following allow investors to gain a broader perspective on this process we agreed to implement a number of the business.
These meetings occur in a number of improvements to our processes.
These included: a different locations around the world to reflect the Board strategy day to augment the regular strategy global nature of our shareholder base.
This year we discussions at Board meetings: a complete review held meetings in London, Edinburgh, New York and of our governance framework, including division of Paris for major shareholders and also visited investors responsibilities, committee terms of reference and on the West Coast of the USA, Germany, Italy, delegated authorities and more opportunities to meet Sweden, Denmark, Canada, Australia and Japan.
senior managers below Board level.
Good progress In September we also invited analysts to our new has already been made in the implementation of manufacturing facility in Dumbarton so that they these improvements: an off-site strategy day was held could tour the new factory: this event was timed with all Board Members in October 2012 and the to follow the announcement of our new global governance review was completed, with new Terms management structure so that analysts would have of Reference for the Committees, updated role the opportunity to address any specific questions statements and delegated authorities adopted on the new structure directly to the Directors.
We also enjoy meeting and engaging in lively debate We have reviewed the interests declared by Directors with shareholders at the Companys Annual General which could conflict with those of the Company, and Meeting.
In 2012, the Annual General Meeting we are satisfied that the Boards powers to authorise coincided with the official opening of our new potential conflicts are operating effectively.
manufacturing facility in Dumbarton, and we decided to hold the Annual General Meeting at the factory so relationS With ShareholderS that shareholders could take a guided tour and attend Understanding differing opinions is a key part the official opening ceremony with HRH The Princess of driving our business forward and we are very Royal.
The 2013 Annual General Meeting will be held interested in understanding the views of our in Glasgow on Thursday, 25 April 2013.
The Company has a well-developed of the meeting are set out on page 91 and in the letter investor relations programme which is managed from the Chairman and notice of meeting sent with this by the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer report.
Shareholders unable to attend are encouraged and Director of Finance.
The Board receives to vote using the proxy card mailed to them or regular updates on the views of shareholders through electronically as detailed in the Notice of Meeting.
briefings from the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer as well as reports from the Companys brokers and the Companys investor 60 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report corrective action is taken if necessary.
At Group internal control level a well-developed management accounts pack The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code including income statements, balance sheets and cash by establishing a continuous process for identifying, flow statement, as well as key ratios related to capital evaluating and managing the risks that are considered productivity and customer satisfaction scores, is significant by the Group in accordance with the revised prepared and reviewed monthly by management.
Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control published by As part of the monthly financial reporting process a the Financial Reporting Council.
This process has been forecast of the current year numbers is carried out.
in place for the period under review and up to the date To ensure consistency of reporting the Group has a of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The global ERP system and a global consolidation system process is designed to manage rather than eliminate as well as a common accounting policies and procedures risk, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute manual.
Management monitor the publication of new assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The reporting standards and work closely with the external Boards monitoring framework covers a wide range auditors in evaluating the impact of these standards.
of controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls together with risk management.
revieW oF eFFectiveneSS It is based principally on reviewing reports from oF internal control management and considering whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Code, the ensuring that any significant weakness thus identified Board reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system is promptly remedied.
The Board continues to enhance of internal control.
and strengthen the procedures for identifying and monitoring key areas of risk.
We have formatted the On an annual basis the Audit Committee receives a registers to provide clearer visibility on the highest formal review that is designed to assess the application rated risks: we now provide a comparison to previous of the principal financial and operational controls registers to show risk trending and also provide a operated by the Group.
The review, which is based on high level narrative explaining key changes from the self-assessment by senior operational management, is previous register.
Internal Audit provide assurance carried out using a risk review and control questionnaire to the Audit Committee on the operation of controls and is intended to complement the internal and which have been identified to address risks on the external audit procedures.
There is also a comprehensive Group Risk Register.
procedure for monitoring all significant risks and key risks have been identified on the Group Risk Register.
The Board also considers financing and investment The Board has considered the probability of those risks decisions concerning the Group and monitors the occurring and their impact, as well as the actions that policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury would be taken in response to them if they did occur.
The Group insurance programme is reviewed by the Board, which also approves self-insured exposures.
The Board has undertaken a specific assessment of internal control for the purpose of this Annual Report.
During each financial year the Audit Committee reviews This assessment considered all significant aspects of the external and internal audit work programmes and internal control during the year ended 31 December considers reports from internal and external auditors on 2012.
Accordingly, the Board is satisfied that the Group the system of internal control and any material control continues to have an effective system of internal control.
It also receives responses from management regarding the actions taken on issues identified in audit corporate Social reSponSiBility reports.
The full report of the Audit Committee is on The Board has set policies for the Group to ensure that pages 62 to 65. it operates worldwide in a safe, ethical and responsible manner, which protects the environment as well as perForMance reporting safeguarding the health and safety of its employees, its and inForMation customers and the communities in which it operates.
These policies are intended to recognise, evaluate and The Group has in place a comprehensive financial manage responsibly environmental, health and safety review cycle, which includes a detailed annual risks through implementation of a comprehensive budgeting process, where business units prepare Global Environmental, Health and Safety Management budgets for approval by the Board.
The Group System that standardises best operating practices, uses a large number of performance indicators to objectives, data collection, reporting, audits, measure both operational and financial activity performance indicators and goals.
These policies in the business.
Depending on the measure: these are are set out in more detail on pages 47 to 53. reported and reviewed on a daily, weekly or monthly basis.
In addition management in the business receive a weekly and monthly pack of indicators which are the basis of regular operational meetings, where Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61
