easyJet plc 42 Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Executive Management Team Alita Benson Warwick Brady People Director Chief Operations officer 1967 1964 Alita 1967 joined easyJet in February 2011 as Head of HR Central Services Warwick 1964 is currently our Chief Operations officer responsible for all of and in June 2011 was appointed as People Director.
He joined easyJet in May in 2009 as the Procurement Director responsible for Fleet management, airport, central procurement and Before joining easyJet, Alita was Head of HR Business Partners at T-Mobile regulation.
In October 2010 he was appointed Director of Group Operations.
for nine years and led the T-Mobile UK HR input for the merger with Orange.
He has extensive airline and broad business experience at senior level and Alita is a fellow of CIPD and graduated from Southampton University with a within the Aviation sector has lead and managed high growth low cost BA Hons in English Literature and obtained a Post Graduate Diploma in airlines, early start-ups as well as restructuring.
Personnel Development at Manchester Polytechnic.
Before joining easyJet Warwick was the CEO at Mandala Airlines in Asia where he turned a legacy brand into a modern, low cost carrier with an all Airbus eet.
He also spent two years as Chief Operating officer of Air Deccan Kingsher with commercial and operational accountability.
Air Deccan at the time was Indias 2nd largest airline and during this time he was instrumental in listing thecompany on the Bombay stock exchange.
Prior to this Warwick was Deputy Operations Director at Ryanair from 2002 to 2005, where he held various senior executive roles including Deputy CEO of Buzz, following its acquisition from KLM.
Mike Campbell Trevor Didcock Europe Director Chief Information officer 1957 1963 Mike 1957 is currently our Europe Director and is responsible for looking Trevor 1963 joined easyJet in September 2010 as Chief Information officer.
after all of our business outside the UK.
He joined easyJet in October 2005 Before joining easyJet, Trevor was CIO at Homeserve plc, The AA and RAC as PeopleDirector.
Motoring Services and spent nine years in IT management roles at Mars, Before joining easyJet, Mike worked at Wedgwood in a broad role as Director Inc. His earlier career was in IT, Finance and Engineering roles at J P Morgan of People and Brands and Managing Director for Canada, Australia and and Esso.
Prior to that, Mike worked for 14 years at Fujitsu in a variety of Trevor has an MBA from Craneld and a BSc in Mechanical Engineering from development and personnel roles across Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle Nottingham University.
East, ending up as Chief Personnel officer.
His early career was in education and research.
Mike has a BSc in Mathematics and Masters in Fluid Dynamics.
Peter Duffy Chris Kennedy Marketing Director Chief Financial officer 1966 1964 Peter 1966 joined easyJet in February 2011 as Marketing Director.
Before joining easyJet, he was Marketing Director for Audi in the UK where he oversaw a period of rapid and profitable growth.
Prior to that, Peter was Marketing Services Director at Barclays.
Peter has a degree in Economics and an MBA.
Governance easyJet plc 43 Annual report and accounts 2012 Cath Lynn Carolyn McCall OBE Group Commercial Director Chief Executive officer 1964 1961 Cath 1964 joined easyJet in 2002 following the merger with Go, in which See Directors proles.
she played an active role.
Cath has successfully carried out a number of senior leadership roles at easyJet including Head of Ground Operations, Head of Airport Development and Procurement and Head of Network Development.
In April 2011, she was appointed as Customer and Revenue Director, and to Group Commercial Director in April 2012.
Before joining easyJet, Cath spent 12 years in retail for J Sainsbury before being head hunted in 1998 by Barbara Cassani for the start up of Go where she was part of the management buy out team and headed up cabin services, ground operations and customer service.
Cath graduated from University of Leicester with a BA Hons in Geography.
Paul Moore Giles Pemberton Communications Director General Counsel and 1962  1968 Paul 1962 joined easyJet in November 2010 as Communications Director.
Giles 1968 joined easyJet in April 2006 as General Counsel and Company Secretary.
He has been on the Executive Management Team since July 2010.
Before joining easyJet, Paul was Group Public Affairs and Communications Director for FirstGroup, the worlds largest private sector transport operator.
Before joining easyJet, Giles was Assistant General Counsel and Director of Prior to that Paul worked for Virgin Atlantic Airways for ten years as its Compliance at Cable & Wireless plc where he spent ten years as a legal Director of Corporate Affairs during a period when the airline signicantly adviser within the UK and Australian operating divisions and then in its head grew its worldwide network while delivering award-winning customer service.
He is a qualied solicitor England & Wales who spent the first four Highlights included managing the communications of several crises, winning years of his career with the City law rm Freshelds.
PR Week Award for Crisis Communications in 2002, coordinating the airlines Giles holds an LLB Hons degree from Nottingham University and obtained lobbying activities and organising several successful world records.
his professional qualication from The Guildford College of Law.
Paul started his career as a civil servant and first joined the transport sector with the Department of Transport.
