easyJet plc 44 Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Corporate governance The Board meets regularly, with ten scheduled meetings having Principles statement been held during the year ended 30 September 2012 with a easyJet is committed to meeting the required standards of further three ad hoc meetings.
All members of the Board are corporate governance.
supplied in advance with appropriate information in a timely Statement of compliance manner covering matters which are to be considered.
The Non The version of the Code applicable to the current reporting period Executive Directors have also met without any Executive Directors is the June 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2012, the Board The document containing the matters reserved for the Board is considers that it and the Company have complied without available in the governance section of easyJets corporate exception with the provisions of the June 2010 UK Corporate website, http: corporate.
The Code is issued by the Financial Reporting Day-to-day management responsibility rests with the Executive Council and is available for review on the Financial Reporting Management Team EMT, which comprises ten Executives Councils website http: www.
including the Executive Directors of the main operating company, Leadership easyJet Airline Company Limited.
As at 30 September 2012, the Board comprised eight The Directors attendance record at the scheduled Board Non Executive Directors including the Chairman and two meetings and Board committee meetings for the year ended Executive Directors.
30 September 2012 was as set out in the table below.
For Board and Board Committee meetings, attendance is expressed as the The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separated, set out number of meetings attended out of the number that each in writing, clearly defined, and approved by the Board.
Director was eligible to attend.
In addition to those scheduled Charles Gurassa fills the posts of Senior Independent Non meetings set out below, ad hoc meetings were also arranged to Executive Director and Deputy Chairman.
deal with matters between scheduled meetings as appropriate.
John Browett was unable to attend two Board meetings due to unavoidable commitments, details of which he had notified to the Company in advance for one of the meetings he notified the Company at the time when the Board meeting dates were initially confirmed.
Remuneration Audit Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee maximum 10 maximum 3 maximum 3 maximum 1 Executive Directors Chris Kennedy 10 10 1 3 n a Carolyn McCall OBE 10 10 2 2 n a Non Executive Directors Sir Michael Rake 10 10 n a n a 1 1 Charles Gurassa 10 10 3 3 n a 1 1 David Bennett 8 10 2 3 2 3 0 1 Keith Hamill 10 10 1 1 3 3 n a John Browett 8 10 n a 1 1 n a Rigas Doganis 10 10 2 3 n a 1 1 Adle Anderson 10 10 n a 3 3 n a Andy Martin 10 10 2 2 n a n a by invitation.
Governance easyJet plc 45 Annual report and accounts 2012 Effectiveness Board engagement with investors The Company regards David Bennett, Professor Rigas Doganis, The Chairman and Deputy Chairman also being the Senior John Browett, Keith Hamill, Charles Gurassa, Adle Anderson Independent Director have both had meetings with shareholders and Andy Martin, as Non Executive Directors who are in order to help maintain a balanced understanding of the issues independent in character and judgement.
and concerns of major shareholders.
They have both updated the whole Board on the results of these meetings and on the opinions All new Directors are given a full, formal and tailored induction of investors.
Regular feedback is provided to the Board on the upon appointment which provides them with information about opinions of shareholders.
In addition the Company has held an the Company.
In addition, meetings are arranged with key investor day and capital markets day to share information with executives and managers within the business during and after investors and listen to shareholder opinion.
induction to provide ongoing education and information about the business.
Visits to network bases are organised for the Board Board Committees from time to time to assist understanding of the operational Remuneration Committee issues the business faces.
The next visit by Non Executive At 30 September 2012, the Remuneration Committee comprised Directors to one of the European bases has been arranged for four Independent Non Executive Directors, namely Charles December 2012.
The Board is also regularly kept up to date with Gurassa Chairman, David Bennett, Professor Rigas Doganis and developments in relevant law, regulation and best practice to Andy Martin.
This Committee, which has met three times during maintain their skills and knowledge.
Directors are given the the year, has responsibility for making recommendations to the opportunity to highlight specific areas in which their skills or Board on the compensation of senior executives and determining, knowledge would benefit from development as part of the annual within agreed terms of reference, the specific remuneration Board evaluation process.
Directors and officers insurance cover packages for each of the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
has been established for all Directors to provide cover against New Bridge Street NBS an AON Hewitt Company has been their reasonable actions on behalf of the Company and a deed appointed as easyJets remuneration advisors.
NBS are a member was executed in 2007 indemnifying each of the Directors of the of the Remuneration Consultants Group and comply with its code Company and or its subsidiaries.
The indemnities were in force of conduct.
A different member of the AON Hewitt Group also during the last financial year and remain in force for all persons conducted employee surveys for the Company.
who are, or were, such Directors.
The Board has reviewed the composition of the Remuneration During the year, a performance review of the Board was Committee during the year and is satisfied that the Directors who undertaken using an external facilitator, Lintstock, in accordance are currently members of this Committee are those who are best with provision B6.2 of the Code.
Lintstock has no connection with able to contribute to the Committees objectives.
the Company, beyond evaluating the Board, other than providing Shareholders are generally required to approve all new Long Term software to the Company with which to monitor insider lists Incentive Plans and significant changes to existing plans.
The Board considers that the details of these plans can be found in the Report on Directors performance review shows that each Director continues to remuneration and the full text of the terms of reference for the contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to the Remuneration Committee is available in the governance section role including commitment of time for Board and committee of easyJets corporate website, http: corporate.
meetings and other duties and that there is an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity including Audit Committee gender and knowledge of the Company to enable the Directors The Audit Committee comprises three Non Executive Directors, to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
all of whom are independent.
At 30 September 2012, the Audit Directors conflicts of interest Committee members were David Bennett Chairman, Keith Hamill and Adle Anderson.
This Committee meets at least three The Company has procedures for managing conflicts of interest times per year.
The primary function of the Audit Committee in place and the Companys Articles of Association contain is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by provisions to allow the Directors to authorise potential conflicts of reviewing the financial reports and other financial information interest so that a Director is not in breach of his her duty under in advance of publication, reviewing on a continuing basis the company law.
Should a Director become aware that they have an systems of internal controls regarding finance and accounting interest, directly or indirectly, in an existing or proposed that management and the Board have established, and reviewing transaction with easyJet, they should notify in accordance with generally the auditing, accounting and financial reporting the Companys Articles of Association.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving duty to update any changes to these conflicts.
the annual and other accounts remains with the Board.
easyJet plc 46 Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Corporate governance continued The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are documented Both external and internal auditors are given the opportunity and agreed by the main Board.
The full text of the terms of to meet privately with the Audit Committee without any member reference is available in the governance section of easyJets of management present.
It is standard practice for the external corporate website, http: corporate.
The key terms auditors to meet with the Audit Committee without the Executive set out that the Audit Committee will: Directors being present at each Audit Committee meeting.
Serve as an independent and objective party to monitor the The Board is satisfied that the Directors who are currently quality and timeliness of the financial reporting process and members of this Committee are those who are best able to monitor the internal financial control system contribute to the Committees objectives.
David Bennett has served as the Chairman of the Committee during the year.
David Review and appraise the audit efforts of the external auditors has previously been an Executive Director of Abbey National plc, Provide an open avenue of communication among the prior to which he was Chief Executive Officer and Finance external auditors, financial and senior management and Director of Alliance & Leicester plc, financial experience which the the Board Board considers to be recent and relevant for the purposes of undertaking the role as Chairman of the Committee.
Confirm and assure the independence and objectivity of the external auditors in particular, in the context of the provision During the year the Audit Committees business has included the of additional services to the Company following items: Review and ensure the effectiveness of the risk management Half Year Results processes of the Company Annual Results Review and monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit Principal judgemental accounting issues affecting the Group function and managements responsiveness to any findings based on reports from both the Groups management and the and recommendations external auditors Assess potential conflicts of interest of Directors on behalf of External audit plans and reports the Board and Risk and assurance plans and reports, including: Report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities key internal audit reports The Audit Committee has the responsibility for appointing the external auditors.
 LLP were reappointed control themes auditors of the Group at the Annual General Meeting held in follow ups February 2012.
The Company currently has no set frequency for tendering the external audit however notes the September fraud and loss prevention 2012 Corporate Governance Code, which applies to its next revenue protection reporting period, and includes a provision to put the external audit out to tender at least every ten years.
The Companys external risk assessment audit was last tendered in 2005 and resulted in a change of internal controls external auditors in February 2006 to the current external auditors,  LLP.
Information Security and Business Continuity In order to preserve auditor objectivity and independence, Delegated authorities  LLP will not be asked to provide Audit Committee terms of reference consulting services unless this is in the best interests of the Company.
The Audit Committees terms of reference set out Whistleblower reports that they are responsible for the formal policy on the award Internal audit effectiveness and independence of non-audit work to the auditors.
To assess the effectiveness of the external audit process, the auditors are asked on an annual Maintenance accounting basis to articulate the steps that they have taken to ensure Specific investigations as required objectivity and independence.
easyJet monitors the auditors performance, behaviour and effectiveness during the exercise The Board as a whole, including the Audit Committee members, of their duties, which informs, on an annual basis, the Audit debated risks and risk management on which basis we believe Committees decision to recommend reappointment.
that the Board has fulfilled its obligations under the Code.
This included this year obtaining a report on the auditors own The Audit Committee continues to be responsible for reviewing quality control procedures and a consideration of their the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys risk annual quality and transparency report.
In the current and management process.
prior financial year, easyJet did not incur any costs with  LLP in respect of non-audit services.
There are no contractual obligations which restrict the choice of external auditors.
Governance easyJet plc 47 Annual report and accounts 2012 Nominations Committee Relations with investors The Nominations Committee has comprised of at least three The AGM gives all shareholders the opportunity to communicate members during the year.
As at 30 September 2012, the directly with the Board.
There is also regular communication with Nominations Committee members were Charles Gurassa institutional investors on key business issues.
easyJet has an Chairman, David Bennett and Professor Rigas Doganis.
investor relations department which runs an active investor relations programme to facilitate engagement with investors This Committee is responsible for nominating candidates to fill including one on one meetings, visits to easyJets operations and Board positions and for making recommendations on Board presentations.
The investor relations website can be accessed at composition and balance.
In appointing Non Executive Directors, http: corporate.
the Boards practice is to use external recruitment consultants.
The Nominations Committee has met once during the year.
Internal control The overall responsibility for easyJets systems of internal control The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are and for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the Directors of documented and agreed by the Board.
The full text of the terms the Company.
The responsibility for establishing and operating of reference is available in the governance section of easyJets detailed control procedures lies with the Chief Executive.
Before selecting However, the internal control systems are designed to manage new appointees, the Nominations Committee considers the rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business balance of skills, knowledge, independence, diversity including objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable but gender and experience on the Board to ensure that a suitable not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Committee adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness to the Board.
All job specifications prepared include details of the of the system of internal control during the year under the time commitments expected in the role.
auspices of the Audit Committee.
This included systems and controls in relation to financial reporting processes and in On joining the Board, new Board members receive a full and preparing the accounts.
This process was enhanced during tailored induction.
Shareholders are offered the opportunity to the year following the establishment of an Internal Financial meet new Directors.
Contracts and letters of appointment with Control monitoring programme administered by Internal Audit.
Directors are made available at the Annual General Meeting or on No material failings or weaknesses were identified during the request.
The standard terms and conditions of the appointment course of this review.
of Non Executive Directors are also available in the governance section of easyJets corporate website, The internal control regime is supported by the operation http: corporate.
The system is operated by a specialist external third-party service provider and allows The appointments process takes account of the benefits of employees to report concerns in confidence on a no names diversity of the Board, including gender diversity, and in identifying basis.
The Audit Committee has approved the processes and suitable candidates the Committee will seek candidates from a reporting structure for the function and receives regular reports range of backgrounds, with the final decision being based on on its operation.
The Company has two female Directors on its Board, one being the Chief Executive.
There are currently ten Directors of the Company.
Accordingly, women represent 20% of the Board, a percentage which easyJet aspires to improve or at least to retain in the future.
In addition to Board diversity, the Company believes in promoting diversity at all levels of the organisation, further details of which can be found in the Corporate responsibility section on page 35. easyJet plc 48 Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Corporate governance continued The Directors review the effectiveness of internal control, including Risk management operating, financial, compliance and risk management controls, The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent which mitigate the significant risks identified.
The mechanisms of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic used by the Directors to review the effectiveness of these objectives.
During 2012, there was continued investment in and controls include: assessment of the risk management process resulting in improved risk management understanding and reporting.
Reporting is structured to ensure process is underpinned by rigorous annual risk identification that key issues are escalated through the management team workshops completed by both the functional managers and the and ultimately to the Board as appropriate.
The process focuses on strategic, Discussions with senior personnel throughout the Company.
This process is coordinated by the Risk Manager who reports to the Head of Risk and Assurance.
Consideration by the Audit Committee of internal and external The Head of Risk and Assurance reports to the Chief Financial audit reports.
Officer and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Controls which mitigate or minimise high-level risks are reviewed by management to ensure that they are in operation.
The results of this review are reported to the Board which considers whether these high-level risks are PLC effectively controlled.
BOARD The Audit Committee undertake an annual review of the appropriateness of the risk management processes to ensure that EXECUTIVE they are sufficiently robust to meet the needs of the Company.
MANAGEMENT Internal audit TEAM OWNERSHIP Internal Audit is part of the Companys Risk and Assurance AND CHALLENGE function.
Internal Audits work is designed to provide effective risk based coverage over the internal control environment.
This is SIGNIFICANT summarised in an audit plan, which is approved by the Board and Audit Committee and updated on a rolling basis.
BUSINESS RISKS The Internal Audit department reviews the extent to which FILTER systems of internal control: RISK EVALUATION GROUP are designed and operating effectively: are adequate to manage easyJets risks: and safeguard the Companys assets.
FUNCTIONAL STRATEGIC The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Head of Risk and RISK ASSESSMENTS RISK ASSESSMENT Assurance and also has direct access to the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Functional risks Strategic risks Risk and Assurance function was formed in 2011 which combines To ensure that risk is effectively managed a number of key the responsibilities for Internal Audit, monitoring internal financial activities are undertaken, as defined by the Executive Directors: controls, risk management coordination and fraud investigation into a single function.
Ongoing risk management and assurance is provided through the various monitoring reviews and reporting mechanisms that The Head of Internal Audit was invited to and attended all of the are embedded into the business operations.
Key monitoring Audit Committee meetings in the year and reported regularly reviews include those conducted continuously in operational on Internal Audit reviews at the Executive Management Team weekly meetings.
In addition, the Safety Audit Group SAG meetings during the course of the year.
meets monthly to discuss safety, security and environmental Internal Audits key objectives are to provide independent and risks and the Safety Review Board SRB meets monthly, or objective assurance on risks and controls to the Board and senior more regularly where events require, to review safety management and to assist the Board in meeting its corporate performance.
In addition, there are regular commercial, governance and regulatory responsibilities.
During the year the financial and IT functional meetings.
effectiveness of the Internal Audit function was assessed by the The Executive Management Team meets regularly to consider Head of Risk and Assurance and the Audit Committee: this significant risks and overall business performance.
followed a formal external effectiveness review completed in 2011.
Internal Audit considers, reviews and tests internal control and The role of Internal Audit and the scope of its work continue to business risk matters as defined by its risk based audit plan.
evolve to take account of changes within the business and emerging best practice.
A formal audit charter is in place.
