42 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Chairmans introduction One of the Boards priorities in 2012 has been the implementation of succession plans that should see two additional directors being appointed this year to replace non-executive directors who should be retiring in the latter half of 2013.
These appointments and retirements will be announced at the relevant time, since the recruitment process is on-going.
As part of this process, the Board appointed recruitment advisers who also facilitated an external evaluation of the Boards performance.
More details are set out below and in the Report of the Nomination Committee.
Corporate governance, of course, is not restricted to just how the Board is structured and operates, but extends to the role of the Board in: i setting strategy, priorities and standards: ii providing leadership, support and guidance to the management team: and iii reviewing and exercising oversight in respect of the way in which the businesses including risk and internal controls are managed as a whole.
In the table below I describe how the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code June 2010 version CGC, concerning the role and effectiveness of your Board, have been applied.
The rest of the corporate governance report will give a more detailed update on the Boards activities and arrangements as they relate to the other CGC principles and provisions.
CGC MAIN PRINCIPLE HOW ELEMENTIS HAS APPLIED THE PRINCIPLE Role of the Board The Elementis Board is collectively responsible for the long term success of the Group.
This means the Board as a whole determines the Groups strategy and key priorities and keeps under review management and business performance.
It approves annual operating plans, defines the risk prole of the Group and sets the standards and values by which the businesses should be managed, as well as ensuring appropriate relationships are maintained with shareholders and other stakeholders.
To do this, the Board has implemented systems and processes to ensure appropriate resources, time and focus are given to properly discharging these functions.
These systems and processes include the role of Board committees, as well as a schedule of matters that define what powers are delegated to the executive directors who are responsible for the running of the Groups businesses.
Underpinning the effectiveness of these structures are the personal relationships on the Board and these are discussed below.
Division of responsibilities As Chairman, I am responsible for leadership of the Board, while the executive directors David Dutro, Chief Executive, and Brian Taylorson, Finance Director are responsible for managing the Groups businesses.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, clearly dened and well understood by the Board, such that no individual has unfettered powers of decision.
Role of the Chairman My role as Chairman is to lead and manage the Board and to set the style and the tone in which the Board operates.
This includes ensuring that there is a forum for constructive discussion and challenge, as well as for an open, frank and informed exchange of views, and creating a framework and the conditions to enable the Board as a whole, and its individual directors, to contribute effectively in the performance of their role.
Such framework and conditions include access to information, support and development opportunities, understanding the views of shareholders, and maintaining constructive relationships between executive and non-executive members of the Board.
Role of non-executive directors Within the framework of a unitary board and the structure of board committees, nonexecutive members of the Board have an important role to play in the development of strategy, reviewing management and business performance and approving business and operating plans, as well as in monitoring risks, controls and the integrity of financial information, determining executive remuneration levels and Board succession planning.
Board composition: skills and experience Critical to the effectiveness of any system of corporate governance is the mix of knowledge, skills, experience, aptitudes and personalities on the Board.
Your Board does not consider the lack of gender diversity has impeded the performance of the Board or its decision making, but recognises that it is a topical issue which is being addressed in our recruitment process.
The Board considers its diversity in terms of international and sector industry experience and background to be a positive attribute in Board discussions and, notwithstanding the respect directors have for their colleagues, there is appropriate and constructive tension between executives and non-executives for them to perform their responsibilities effectively.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 43 CGC MAIN PRINCIPLE HOW ELEMENTIS HAS APPLIED THE PRINCIPLE Board appointments Except when meeting to discuss specic matters, such as appraising the role of the Chairman or meeting without the executives present, the Board as a whole sits as the Nomination Committee when it considers Board appointments, succession plans and Board evaluation.
This ensures all directors are kept informed of the work of the committee, although directors do not participate in the decision making on any matter concerning them personally.
The Nomination Committee selected Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann, after a tender process, to assist its implementation of Board succession plans.
This included an external evaluation of the Board that was used to facilitate a Board discussion about its composition, strengths and weaknesses, and the recruitment strategy.
A role specication was prepared followed by a long list then short list of candidates for the Audit Committee Chairman role.
The process is currently on-going.
During 2012, my appointment as Chairman was renewed for a final three year term, until September 2015.
Commitment of directors A clear condition of appointment is that all directors should devote sufficient time and commitment to their roles and the expected time commitment is made clear to all non-executive directors.
Board induction and development All directors are encouraged to undertake training to refresh their skills and knowledge.
No specic training needs were identied in the Board evaluation process, but individual directors are proactive in addressing their own development needs.
The company secretary keeps the directors informed regularly about training opportunities that are available.
These include courses and events run by the Companys professional advisers, as well as by third party organisations, and cover a diverse range of topics from accountancy and legal, to pensions and executive remuneration.
In addition, as part of a teach-in programme initiated by the Audit Committee, all directors receive two briengs a year from finance staff on the more technical aspects of accounting policy and their application.
Information and support The Board has an established programme to ensure all aspects of its role and duties and those of its committees are properly met and discharged.
This includes formal processes in respect of all Board and committee papers, communication of information to all directors and the dissemination implementation of Board decisions.
The company secretary keeps the Board informed on governance matters and developments and ensures non-executive directors receive the information and support they need.
Board evaluation The Board considers that a formal and rigorous evaluation of its performance and those of its committees and individual directors was undertaken during 2012.
Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann interviewed all directors individually, discussing openly the Boards performance, strategy, priorities and development needs.
Other than as a recruitment adviser, Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann have no other connection with the Company.
Your Board considers that, following this formal performance evaluation, each director contributes effectively and demonstrates appropriate commitment to the role.
Re-election of directors All directors will be standing for re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in April and the Board recommends their re-election.
Robert Beeston Chairman 26 February 2013 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW
