46 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Chairman and members of the Audit Committee the Committee In connection with the review of the work of the external and internal are shown on page 36, together with their biographical information.
auditors, no significant internal control failings or weaknesses were Chris Girling and Ian Brindle are considered to have the necessary reported so none are disclosed here.
There were also no significant financial experience under governance requirements and all matters raised by the external auditors, needing to be resolved, Committee members are considered to be independent.
Four concerning the financial statements that had to be discussed by meetings were held during 2012, all of which were attended by the Committee and Board and, therefore, no disclosure of such Committee members, as well as by the Chairman of the Company discussion is made.
In 2012, non-audit services of $0.8 million from KPMG were approved A copy of the Committees terms of reference is available on the by the Committee 2011: $0.5 million.
These services consisted Companys website and the following is a summary of its mainly of tax advisory services in relation to the US, UK, Netherlands, responsibilities: Germany, China, Taiwan and the Groups acquisition in Brazil.
KPMGs knowledge of the business meant it could provide these services cost Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, accounting effectively.
The Committee is satisfied that the provision of these t policies and financial reporting.
services does not affect the independence of the external auditors Reviewing the effectiveness of internal control, compliance and and that KPMG has appropriate procedures in place to safeguard its t risk management systems.
independence and objectivity, such as having quality control systems Overseeing all aspects of the relationship with the internal and and policies on the rotation of key roles, which have been presented t external auditors.
to and approved by the Committee.
The following is a description of the work of the Committee to show The Companys policy on non-audit services contains guidance on the how it has discharged its responsibilities: types of non-audit work that the external auditors may be considered for.
This guidance is in addition to other specified factors that must be Reviewed the annual and interim reports and financial taken into consideration, such as the expertise and resources of the t statements, together with the report of the external auditors rm, whether the services could risk jeopardising audit independence and accompanying management representation letter.
and the fee relative to the audit fee.
t Received two technical briengs from finance staff on inventory Examples of services that the external auditors may be allowed to t accounting and accounting for insurance.
perform under the policy include due diligence work related to Received internal audit reports by email, as and when corporate transactions, work involving giving compliance certicates t these became available, and discussed these, together opinions comfort letters and advisory work in connection with the with half yearly reports, with the internal audit providers, interpretation or application of accounting standards or tax legislation.
 PwC, as well as representations Non-audit work that the external auditors would not normally be from management.
considered for include management consulting work, such as on Reviewed the effectiveness of PwC and the external auditors strategy or the redesigning of a significant process, corporate finance t KPMG.
work involving the recommendation of a specic transaction or where Considered and approved the continued outsourcing of the the fee includes a material success component, and interim t internal audit function to PwC, since it has the resources to access management assignments or secondments.
the skills, knowledge and experience required to staff such a function.
Under the policy, the Finance Director may approve individual Considered and approved the scope of work of, and the fees and engagements where the fee is up to 15 per cent of the Groups t engagement letters for, both internal and external auditors.
audit fee for the previous year, provided that the total non-audit Reviewed and discussed periodic compliance and litigation fees in the year do not exceed 50 per cent of that Group audit fee.
t reports from the Groups General Counsel, including matters Decisions above these thresholds must be referred to the under the Groups Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, such Committee for determination.
as its anti-bribery and corruption compliance programme and whistleblowing arrangements.
By order of the Board Reviewed the Companys policy on non-audit services, t considered and reviewed the objectivity and independence of the external auditors, as well as the nature and extent of nonaudit services they provide.
Chris Girling Considered and recommended the re-appointment of KPMG as t Chairman, Audit Committee external auditors.
26 February 2013 Received and discussed management reports on tax planning, t business continuity plans and the system of internal controls and risk management the latter is set out on pages 25 to 27 of the Risk management report.
Reviewed and amended its terms of reference.
t Discussed the new requirements of the amended UK Corporate t Governance Code September 2012 version.
Discussed the subject of internal and external auditor rotation t and tendering.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
