FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RELATION TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors are required to prepare Group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the Group financial statements the Directors are required to: present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash ows of the Group: select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: and state that the Group has complied with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Directors Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement in accordance with Companies Act 2006 and applicable regulations, including the requirements of the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
EnQuest PLC 60 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT ON THE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS TO THE MEMBERS OF ENQUEST PLC REGISTERED NUMBER: 07140891 We have audited the Group financial statements of EnQuest PLC Opinion on financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Group In our opinion the Group financial statements: Statement of Comprehensive Income, Group Balance Sheet, give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group Statement at 31 December 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 28.
The financial have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation adopted by the European Union: and is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act2006 in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might the financial year for which the Group financial statements are state to the Companys members those matters we are required prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Matters on which we are reTuired to report by exception assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company We have nothing to report in respect of the following: and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors are not made: or Responsibilities in respect of the Group financial statements set we have not received all the information and explanations we out on page 60, the Directors are responsible for the preparation require for our audit.
of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in the Directors statement, set out on page 48, in relation to accordance with applicable law and International Standards on going concern: Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Auditors.
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board Scope of the audit of the financial statements on Directors remuneration.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Other matter reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free We have reported separately on the parent Company financial from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or statements of EnQuest PLC for the year ended 31 December error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 2012 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and Report that is described as having been audited.
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Ernst Young LLP Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Gary Donald Senior Statutory Auditor In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information for and on behalf of Ernst & oung LLP, Statutory Auditor in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material London inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we 26 March 2013 become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
