OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Chairmans introduction Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors bring independent judgement to Dear Shareholder bear on issues of strategy and resources, and independently our Board is committed to maintaining high standards of challenge and constructively comment on the performance of corporate governance.
As the Company continues to grow both key business objectives and targets.
operationally and geographically, your Board recognises the challenge to ensure that we have in place the right people and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director processes to manage risk and opportunity effectively.
Helmut Langanger continues to be the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The main responsibilities for the Senior I have set out below my statement of how the Company has applied Independent Non-Executive Director are as follows: the principles of the 2010 UK Governance Code the Code for the to be available to shareholders in the event that they may feel year ended 1 December 2012.
It is the Boards view that the it inappropriate to relay views through the Chairman, Chief Company has complied with the Code throughout 2012, except Executive or the Chief Financial officer: where reported below.
to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary with other Directors when necessary: and The Board to meet with the other Non-Executive Directors without the The role of the Board Chairman present at least annually in order to evaluate the The Board has a formal schedule of matters specically performance of the Chairman.
reserved to it for decision, which has been approved by the Board.
Its reserved matters include determination of the overall Board diversity strategy of the Group, to review business plans and trading The Board is aware of the provisions of the Governance Code performance, to approve major capital investment projects, and has due regard for the benets of diversity, including gender, examine acquisition opportunities and divestment possibilities, on the Board.
review significant financial and operational issues, and review and approve the Companys financial statements, control and Conicts of interest risk management systems.
The Board has in place a procedure for the consideration and authorisation of conicts or possible conicts with the The Board delegates the execution of its strategic objectives to Companys interests.
In accordance with the directors interests the Executive Committee, which supports the Chief Executive provisions in the Companies Act 2006, all the Directors are in the discharge of his role and responsibilities.
Operational required to submit details to the Company Secretary of any management of the Group on a day-to-day basis is managed situations which may give rise to a conict, or potential conict, by the Operational Committee, which comprises members of interest.
The Board monitors and reviews potential conicts of the Executive Committee, Asset Managers and selected of interest on a regular basis.
How the Board operates Board composition During 2012, six scheduled meetings of the Board were held, four The Board of Directors comprises the Chairman, the Chief of which were held at the Companys registered ofce in London, Executive, the Chief Financial officer and four Non-Executive one meeting was held at the Companys Aberdeen ofce, and Directors.
The biographical details of each are set out on one meeting held offsite.
Details of attendance at each of those pages42 and 4.
Alexandre Schneiter served as a Non-Executive meetings, and at meetings of the Board Committees, are set out Director during part of the year, and retired at the AGM held on in the table on page 50.
The Board appointed a new Independent NonExecutive Director, 3hil Nolan, with effect from 1 August 2012.
During the year, a number of other meetings took place to deal Nigel Hares who served as an Executive Director stood down with specic matters that required consideration at short notice, from the Board on 9 November 2012. and in each case, notice was duly given to all the Directors.
Any Director who is unable to attend scheduled or short notice Board Chairman and Chief Executive meetings in person is invited to join the meeting by video or The Chairman is a Non-Executive Director.
His key responsibility telephone conferencing facilities, or is given the opportunity to is the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting by aspects of its role and setting the agenda.
The Chief Executives telephone or in writing.
role is the operational management of the business, developing strategy in consultation with the Board and then implementing The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting is drawn such strategy.
The division of responsibilities between the up by the Company Secretary in consultation with the Chairman Chairman and the Chief Executive has been clearly established, and with agreement from the Chief Executive.
Formal minutes of set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
all Board and Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors prior to the next Board meeting and are considered for approval The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information at that Board meeting.
In addition, the Chief Executive is in to enable it to perform its duties.
The Company Secretary is frequent contact with the Non-Executive Directors between responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all meetings in order to keep them updated with progress on the governance matters.
In addition, each Director has access to the Groups business.
The Chairman also meets the Non-Executive advice and services of the Company Secretary.
There is also a Directors informally, without any executives present, to discuss procedure agreed by the Board, in furtherance of the duties, to matters in respect of the business.
take independent professional advice if necessary, at the Companys expense, up to a pre-determined limit.
EnQuest PLC 49 Annual Report 2012 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Directors attendance at Board and Board Audit Committee Committeemeetings The Audit Committee currently comprises four Non-Executive The table below sets out the attendance record of each Director Directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be at scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings during 2012: independent and have recent and relevant financial experience.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination The members of the Audit Committee during the year were meetings Committee Committee Committee as follows: Meetings held Jock Lennox Chairman in2012 6 1 Helmut Langanger 3hil Nolan joined the Committee on 1 August 2012 Executive Directors Clare Spottiswoode 1 Amjad Bseisu 6n a n a 1 2 The Audit Committee met three times in 2012.
At the request Nigel Hares 4 n a n a n a of the Audit Committee, the Chief Financial officer and a senior 1 Jonathan Swinney 6 n a n a n a member of the finance department attended each of these meetings.
The Chief Executive and Chairman also attended the Non-Executive Directors meetings when invited to do so by the Committee.
In addition, 1 Dr James Buckee 6n a n a 1 all three meetings were attended by the external auditors, who receive copies of all the Audit Committee papers.
Deloitte, in their Helmut Langanger 6 1 role as internal auditors, attended as appropriate.
The Chairman Jock Lennox 6 1 of the Committee regularly meets with the external audit partner and the internal audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the 3hil Nolan 21 2 0 Company.
4 Alexandre Schneiter n a n a n a Clare Spottiswoode 6 1 The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, including Notes: n a not applicable where a Director is not a member of the Committee.
annual and interim reports and any other formal announcement 1 On occasion Amjad Bseisu, Jonathan Swinney and Jim Buckee have attended relating to the Companys financial performance: Committee meetings by invitation.
These details have not been included on monitoring and reviewing the process of audit of the Groups the table.
proven and probable reserves by a recognised Competent 3erson: 2 Nigel Hares stood down as a Director on 9 November 2012.
The number of meetings attended is stated up to and including that date.
monitoring and reviewing the Companys internal control With effect from 1 August 2012, 3hil Nolan was appointed as a Non-Executive procedures and risk management systems: Director and member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the external and The number of meetings attended is stated with effect from that date.
internal audit activities: 4 Alexandre Schneiter retired as a Director at the AGM held on 0 May 2012.
making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, review and removal of external auditors: Board Committees monitoring whether any calls had been made to the externally The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration facilitated whistle-blowing line: Committee and a Nomination Committee, each of which has formal establishing the external auditors remuneration: terms of reference approved by the Board.
The terms of reference monitoring the external auditors independence: for each of these Committees satisfy the requirements of the monitoring the policy on external auditors non-audit Governance Code and are reviewed internally on an ongoing basis services:and by the Board.
Copies of the terms of reference are available on the identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action Companys website.
or improvement is needed and making recommendations to the Board as to the steps to be taken.
The Committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
In fullling its responsibility to monitor the integrity of financial The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committees reports to shareholders, the Audit Committee reviewed the and minutes of all Committee meetings are available to accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the allDirectors.
presentation of public financial information.
Set out below are reports from the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
EnQuest PLC 50 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS During the year under review, the Groups half year financial report Remuneration Committee and full year Annual Report were reviewed by the Audit Committee The Remuneration Committee currently comprises four Nonbefore recommending publication to the Board.
In carrying out this Executive Directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to review the Committee received reports from, and held discussions be independent.
with management and the external auditors.
The key financial reporting issues considered during the year focused on how The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year management had applied the critical accounting estimates were as follows: and judgements.
This included key assumptions regarding Helmut Langanger Chairman decommissioning cost estimates, the results of goodwill and asset Jock Lennox impairment testing, including key assumptions such as oil price 3hil Nolan joined the Committee on 1 August 2012 forecasts and discount rates, the appropriateness of the carrying Clare Spottiswoode value of intangibles, and taxation.
The Remuneration Committee met three times in 2012.
The Chief In addition, the Committee considered the results of the internal Executive and Chairman also attended the meetings when audits conducted during the year, the feedback on internal invited to do so by the Committee.
The Chief Executive did not controls provided by the external auditors, and the Groups participate in any discussions relating to his own remuneration.
approach to estimating oil and gas reserves and their audit by a recognised Competent 3erson.
The main responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include: setting the remuneration policy for the Chairman, Executive The Committee held private meetings with the external auditors Directors and Senior Executives: without management present.
These meetings provided the assessing and determining total compensation packages opportunity for direct feedback and discussion between the available to the Executive and Non-Executive Directors: Committee and the external auditors.
The Committee also monitoring the remuneration of senior management other than considered the performance of the external auditor and internal the Executive Directors whose remuneration it sets: audit and the effectiveness of its own performance.
Various making recommendations to the Board for its approval, and improvements were identied and adopted.
that of shareholders, on the design of long term share incentive plans and making recommendations for the grant of awards to In its role of monitoring and approving the level and type of executives under such plans: and non-audit services to be delivered by the external auditor, the determining policy and scope for pension rights and any Committee had regard to consideration whether through its compensation payments and ensuring compliance with the knowledge of specic transactions, the external auditor was best Governance Code in this respect.
placed to deliver various services to the Group.
Assessment of the continuing independence of the external auditor was also Further information on the Remuneration Committee can be undertaken.
As a result of these considerations a number of found in the Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 57. projects were approved to be performed by the external auditors during the year and a number were not.
It is the policy that the Nomination Committee Group has relationships with a number of service providers that The Nomination Committee currently comprises the Chairman, can provide similar services to the external auditors.
Further four Independent Non-Executive Directors and, to ensure input details on the Groups policy on the use of the external auditors from the Executive, the Chief Executive.
to provide non-audit services, on auditor independence, and on how the Committee assesses the independence and objectivity The members of the Nomination Committee during the year of the external auditors is provided on page 5. were as follows: Dr James Buckee Chairman Each year, the internal audit plan for the following year is Helmut Langanger co-developed with Deloitte, based on a review of the significant Jock Lennox risks identied by the Group, discussion with senior management 3hil Nolan joined the Committee on 1 August 2012 and with the Audit Committee.
The internal audits performed Clare Spottiswoode during 2012 were selected to address risks associated with the Amjad Bseisu rapidexpansion of the Group.
The specic areas of focus were theGroups procurement and payment processes for new The main responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include: reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board in developments: the cost monitoring process for major projects: human resource management, and management reporting.
A order to recommend changes to the Board and to ensure the orderly succession of Directors: follow up review of the results of the 2011 internal audits was also conducted.
Where issues were identied during these audits, the formalising succession planning and the process for new Director appointments: Committee satisfied itself that appropriate action was being taken by management to address the findings.
The approach to internal identifying, evaluating and recommending candidates for appointment or reappointment as Directors or as Company audit will be considered again in 201 and its link with other aspects of risk management assurance that are conducted in the Group.
Secretary, taking into account the balance of knowledge, skills and experience required to serve the Board: and In 2012 the Group updated its Code of Conduct policy, which all reviewing the outside directorships commitments of Nonemployees and contractors are required to comply with, by Executive Directors.
augmenting its sections on business ethics, in particular to reect the Companys Charity 3olicy and keeping in view the impact of the UK Bribery Act.
EnQuest PLC 51 Annual Report 2012 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Nomination Committee met once in 2012, in order to deal Induction information and support with the appointment of 3hil Nolan as a Non-Executive Director New Directors receive a full induction following their appointment, of the Company.
The following procedure was followed in covering the activities of the Group and its key business and respect of this appointment: financial risks, the terms of reference of the Board and its Committees and the latest financial information about the Group.
The Committee evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board with a view to identifying any gaps in the The Chairman ensures that Directors update their skills, skill set of the Board and also where gaps would exist following knowledge and familiarity with the Company in order to full Alexandre Schneiter standing down as a Director at the 2012 their roles on the Board and on Board Committees.
The Committee then decided to conduct a search for a training is provided as necessary and includes updates from new Non-Executive Director with a commercial and or financial the Company Secretary on changes to the Listing Rules, background and with relevant oil and gas sector experience.
requirements under the Companies Act and other regulatory The Committee instructed Heidrick & Struggles, an independent matters.
Directors may consult with the Company Secretary executive search rm, to conduct the search, from which a list of at any time on matters related to their role on the Board.
candidates was provided to the Chairman and Chief Executive.
Following this, a shortlist was prepared and candidates were Internal controls first interviewed by the Chairman and Chief Executive, and the The Companys system of internal controls is designed to preferred candidates were interviewed again by other members manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve of the Committee and the Executive Directors.
business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Board will This process identied 3hil Nolan as the preferred candidate continue to review and improve the system of internal controls.
based on his business and commercial skills and his experience of the oil and gas sector his biographical details are set out on The Board recognises the need for effective internal controls page 4.
The Nomination Committee then recommended to the and for evaluating and managing the risks of the Company.
Board that 3hil Nolan be appointed a Non-Executive Director of Such matters are brought to the attention of the Board at its the Company and his proposed appointment was unanimously formal Board meetings or ad hoc discussions.
Consequently, 3hil was appointed with effect from 1 August 2012, and at the same time was appointed a High level controls in operation include: member of the Companys Audit, Nomination and Remuneration review of management accounts with comparison of actual Committees.
performance against prior periods and budget: approval of orders, authorisation of invoices and the The Board and Nomination Committee are satisfied that the requirement of two signatures to make a transfer from the individuals currently fullling key senior management positions principal bank accounts: in the Group have the requisite depth and breadth of skills, reconciliation of control accounts: knowledge and experience to ensure that orderly succession prior approval by the Board for major investments: to the Board and Executive Committee can take place.
segregation of duties between relevant functions and departments: and Board performance evaluation major capital projects are managed through a stage gate At the end of 2012, the Board appointed Consilium Board Review, process, which is subject to peer review at each stage gate.
an independent external facilitator, to conduct a Board evaluation Additionally, cash ow forecasts are presented to the Board review.
The process consisted of a questionnaire, one-to-one throughout the process.
structured interviews with each Director and selected senior management, and a full Board discussion of the conclusions and The Board has ensured that the process for identifying, recommendations.
The external facilitator also dealt with the evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group evaluation of the Chairman, by having a separate discussion accords with the Turnbull Guidance, and that the process has with the Senior Independent Director.
been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The evaluation showed that we are building from a strong base, with an informal, engaged and supportive working climate on The Board is aware of the need to conduct regular risk the Board, coupled with a healthy level of challenge and debate.
assessments to identify any deficiencies in the controls currently Relations between Executive Directors and Non-Executive operating over all aspects of the Group.
The Board reviews the Directors are good and there is a strong degree of alignment business risk register at each meeting and monitors the on the areas requiring attention over the coming year as part assessment of risk and the action required for each risk area.
of the Boards commitment to continuous improvement.
The financial reporting procedures were reviewed during the The agreed action points from the 2012 Board evaluation review, year, following which the Board was able to confirm that the against which progress will be disclosed in EnQuests 201 financial reporting procedures established provided them with Annual Report, are set out in summary below: a reasonable basis on which to make proper judgements on the Board Agenda to be more streamlined, by separating the financial position and prospects of the Company on an reports for discussion information against reports that require ongoing basis.
Board approval: Board approval reports to provide executive summaries: and Details of principal risk and uncertainties are discussed in the a 12 month rolling agenda to be prepared to ensure that the Business Review on pages 22 and 2.
Board addresses all of the key issues throughout the year.
EnQuest PLC 52 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Auditor independence Communication with shareholders The Audit Committee and Board recognise the importance and The Company has a very active investor relations programme objectivity of the Groups external auditors, Ernst & oung LL3, through which the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial officer, when performing their role in the Companys reporting to and senior management regularly meet with major shareholders.
The external auditors provide the Audit Committee In 2012, numerous investor and broker sales meetings were held, with information about their policies and processes for maintaining presentations were made at international conferences and an independence and monitoring compliance with current regulatory investor eld trip was held in Aberdeen, which together provided requirements, including those regarding the rotation of audit for comprehensive and engaging dialogue with shareholders and partners and staff.
Ernst & oung LL3 confirmed their potential investors.
The Company periodically arranges for formal independence and objectivity.
surveys of investor opinion to be conducted, these are reported in full to the Board.
During the year it was apparent that the fees for non-audit services were likely to exceed the audit fees.
The Audit The Company issues its results and other news releases promptly Committee received a request from management to engage the andpublishes them on the Companys website at www.
external auditors on certain tax projects.
After considering other Other corporate information issued during the year is also available on alternatives, management were of the opinion that the advice the website.
Shareholders and other interested parties can subscribe proposed by the external auditors provided the best options to receive news updates by email by registering online on the website.
for EnQuest and its shareholders.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that this process had been rigorous and that appropriate At the 201 AGM, a business presentation will be provided for the safeguards had been put in place to sustain the external benefit of shareholders.
The Chairman will aim to ensure that the auditors independence.
In addition, and before the tax projects respective Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees commenced, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the attend the AGM to answer questions and that the other Directors Chief Financial officer met with shareholder bodies such as the also attend.
Association of British Insurers specically, during the financial year, to discuss non-audit services and auditor independence.
Compliance with the governance statement Following this meeting, the Audit Committee approved the The Company complied with the provisions of the Governance external auditors engagement on the tax projects and adopted Code, except that for the financial period under review up to arevised policy in respect of the provision of non-audit services 1August 2012, there was only an equal balance of Executive and to the Company by the external auditor.
This policy is available Independent Non-Executive Directors who sat on the Board.
onthe Companys website at www.
Audit services Following the retirement of Alexandre Schneiter on 0 May 2012, fees payable to Ernst & oung LL3 during 2012 amounted to and the appointment of 3hil Nolan with effect from 1 August 2012 55,000 2011: 26, 000 and 965,000 2011: 991,000 as an Independent Non-Executive Director, there became a for non-audit services including tax advice on asset and greater number of independent Non-Executive Directors to corporate acquisitions.
Executive Directors, at which point full compliance with the provisions of the Governance Code was achieved.
Management, and the external auditors, provided the Audit Committee with details of the safeguards in place to ensure On behalf of the Board independence was maintained in respect of the non-audit services provided during 2012.
The Audit Committee assessed Dr James Buckee these safeguards to be adequate.
Chairman of the Board 26 March 201 The overall performance, independence and objectivity of the auditors is reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee.
In addition to the procedures for assessing independence and objectivity described above, this process involves interviewing key members of the organisation who are involved in the audit process, on an annual basis, to obtain feedback as to the performance of the external auditors.
Additionally, the Audit Committee members take into account their own view of the performance of Ernst & oung LL3 when determining whether or not to recommend their reappointment.
