COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIA L OVERVIE W REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENT S 57 Corporate governance report Introduction There were a number of changes to both Board structure The Company is committed to maintaining high standards and Committee membership in June 2012, which will take ofcorporate governance both in respect of its management effect as of 1 July 2012.
Please see The Board and The of the Group and its businesses and its accountability to Board Committees below for further details.
This section of the annual reportsets out the corporate governance framework for The Board is the decision making body for all matters theCompany.
material to the Companys nances, strategy and reputation.
It is collectively responsible for the long-term success The principal governance rules applying to UK companies oftheCompany and has ultimate responsibility for the listed on the London Stock Exchange are now contained in management, direction and performance of the Group and the Governance Code, which can be found on the FRCs its businesses.
The Board is required to exercise objective website at http: www.
judgement on all corporate matters and is accountable to shareholders for the proper conduct of the business.
During the 15 month period to 31 March 2012, the Company has complied with the Governance Code in all respects, The matters which are reserved for the Board are set out in a save for the following: formal schedule, approved by the Board and include: i Code Provision A.
Neither Mr Prashant Ruia, the t the overall Group strategy and long range plans: current Chairman nor Mr Ravi Ruia, the previous t stewardship of business performance: Chairman met the independence criteria set out in the t devising and reviewing the corporate governance Governance Code on their appointment as Chairman, structure of the Group: due to their interests in the Company and their t approval of all new capital projects and any acquisitions involvement with Essar Group: and including joint ventures or divestments: ii Code Provision B.
The Governance Code stipulates t approval of the annual budget, including maintenance and that open advertising or an external search consultancy project capital expenditure, and the operating plan: should be used within the appointments process for t delegated levels of authority and the annual and half-year aNon-Executive Director.
Neither were considered financial results and shareholder communications: necessary for Steve Lucas appointment to the Board t the system of internal control and risk management: inMarch 2012 because it was felt that the Nomination t the Group management structure: andGovernance Committee could identify between t recommending dividend policy for shareholder approval: themselves a broad range of potential candidates: see t appointment of external auditors: Nomination and Governance Committee below.
t entering into related party transactions: t entering into new committed financial facilities: The previous Chairman was not independent at the time of t approving the Financial and Treasury Risks Policy: and his appointment as he was, and still is, also Vice Chairman t appointments to the Board.
of the Essar Group and is indirectly a majority shareholder in the Company.
In view of the previous Chairmans position Otherwise, the day to day management of the Company is as one of the founders of the Essar Group and his extensive delegated to and run by the Chief Executive officer and his involvement with Essar Oil and Essar Power over a period Senior Management, the role of which is described below.
of many years, the Board considered that his knowledge The Board has also delegated specic responsibility to of Essar and role in building it into one of Indias premier thefour Board Committees, being the Nomination and business groups provided significant benets to Essar Governance Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Energy, outweighing any potential conicts.
The previous Audit Committee and the Health, Safety and Environment Chairman made a major contribution to the Groups growth Committee.
Further information on each of these committees and success and the Board was unanimously of the opinion is set out on pages 60 to 62 of this report.
that his continued involvement was crucially important to the ongoing success of the Company.
The current Chairman Subsidiary Board structure was previously the Vice Chairman of the Company and a Essar Energy operates its Oil and Gas business in India Non-Executive Director of the Company.
The Independent through Essar Oil.
Essar Oil has a free oat of 10.04% of its Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive officer shares on the Bombay Stock Exchange and the National considered Mr Prashant Ruia to be best placed to take Stock Exchange of India.
Essar Oil has its own board of over the role of Chairman when the previous Chairman Directors along with an audit and governance committee stepped down on 21 December 2011, due to the depth and thatundertakes all the subsidiarys corporate governance breadth of his knowledge of the Company and its strategy, requirements and ensures and monitors compliance with the business activities and operations.
The Exploration and Production business operates within Essar Oil and is subject to the The role and structure of the Board same corporate governance requirements.
Similarly, Essar The Board consists of eight Directors, made up of the Power, which operates Essar Energys power business in Chairman, Chief Executive officer and six Non-Executive India, also has its own board of Directors along with an Directors, of whom five are independent.
Biographies of all executive committee and audit committee.
Essar Oil UK the Board members appear on pages 48 and 49 of this hasits own board of Directors along with an executive annual report.
The Chief Executives of each of these businesses are members of the Essar Energy Mr Steve Lucas was appointed as the fifth Independent SeniorManagement.
Non-Executive Director of the Company on 29 March 2012.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 58 Governance Corporate governance report continued The Senior Management The Senior Management focuses on monitoring implementation of the Companys strategy, progress against agreed plans and operational matters to ensure the Boards strategic directions are implemented and to make recommendations to the Board.
The Senior Management membership comprises the Chairman, Mr Prashant Ruia, as Chairman of the Committee, the Chief Executive officer of the Company, Mr Naresh Nayyar, the Chief Executives of the business groups, the Chief Financial officer, Mr P Sampath and the Director of Investor Relations and Communications, Mr Mark Lidiard.
The Senior Management meets on a monthly basis.
Senior Management members generally receive papers a week inadvance of the meeting.
Agenda items for each meeting include financial and operational highlights, project updates, businessdevelopment, statutory compliance updates, investor relations updates and updates on use of funds.
The agenda also includes, at least twice a year, an item to monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups risk management policy.
The agenda is currently under review to ensure the appropriate topics are being discussed at each meeting.
The Board Mr Prashant Ruia is the current Chairman of the Company and is the Chief Executive of the Essar Group.
Mr Ravi Ruia, who was the previous Chairman until 21 December 2011, remains a Non-Executive Director of the Company and is Vice Chairman of the Essar Group.
Mr Naresh Nayyar is the Chief Executive officer of the Company.
The majority five out of seven of the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board to be independent in character and judgement in compliance with the Governance Code.
Their independence provides a strong foundation for good corporate governance.
The Directors who served during the year are set out in the table below: Independent Non Independent Mr Philip Aiken Mr Ravi Ruia Chairman until December 2011 Mr Sattar Hajee Abdoula Mr Prashant Ruia Chairman since December 2011 Mr Simon Murray Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Mr Naresh Nayyar Chief Executive officer Mr Subhas Lallah Mr Steve Lucas appointed March 2012 Mr Simon Murray is, and was throughout the period, the Board appointed Senior Independent Non-Executive Director SID and is available to address shareholders concerns that have not been resolved through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive officer or Chief Financial officer, or in cases when such communications would be inappropriate.
In June 2012, the Board appointed Mr Simon Murray to the role of Vice Chairman of the Company, and also appointed Mr Philip Aiken to the role of Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Both appointments will take effect on 1 July 2012.
There is a clear division between the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive officer and a written statement of their responsibilities has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the operation, leadership and governance of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive officer is responsible for guiding the implementation of Board strategy and policy with respect to the Groups business, with the assistance of the SeniorManagement.
Since his appointment as Chairman in December 2011, Mr Prashant Ruia undertakes the duties of both Chairman and Vice Chairman until 1 July 2012.
The appointment of Simon Murray to the role of Vice Chairman of the Company comes into effect on 1 July 2012.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIA L OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENT S 59 The Board holds at least four scheduled Board meetings a year and in addition meets on an ad hoc basis in response to business needs.
Generally, all the meetings of the Board and Board Committees are held at the Essar Energy Head Ofce in Mauritius.
During the period, five scheduled Board meetings and three ad hoc meetings were held.
A table of attendance of members of the Board and Board Committees at meetings held during the period is set out below: Nomination Health, and Safety and Remuneration Audit Governance Environment Board Meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Scheduled Ad Hoc Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Mr Prashant Ruia 4 5 1 3 4 5 Mr Ravi Ruia 3 5 1 3 Mr Naresh Nayyar 5 5 2 3 3 3 Mr Philip Aiken 5 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 Mr Sattar Hajee Abdoula 5 5 3 3 5 5 0 0 Mr Simon Murray 5 5 2 3 3 3 4 5 5 5 Mr Subhas Lallah 5 5 3 3 3 3 5 5 5 5 2 2 Mr Steve Lucas 0 0 0 0 1 Board meetings convened at relatively short notice to deal with ad hoc commercial matters.
Representation at such meetings reects the short notice period given.
Board members who were unable to attend received the brieng papers in advance and had the opportunity to provide their input prior to the meeting.
Any such comments received were duly noted at the relevant meeting.
2 No Board Meetings were held during the period since the appointment of Mr Lucas as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 29 March 2012.
3 No Committee Meetings were held during the period since Mr Hajee Abdoula was appointed as a Committee member on 23 February 2012.
The Directors receive appropriate brieng papers on substantive items, which are, in general, circulated at least a week beforethe relevant Board meeting to give the Directors adequate time to prepare for the meeting and to enable any Director who is unable to attend the meeting to have an opportunity to review the matters to be discussed and, if necessary, to provide comments to the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
The Directors also receive monthly updates on key matters relating tothe business operations, project updates, financial information, legal and corporate governance, tax and investor relations.
The Directors also receive other ad hoc updates between Board meetings.
All Directors have the right to have their concerns about the running of the Company, or a proposed action which cannot be resolved, recorded in the minutes.
During the period, the Non-Executive Directors have met without the Executive Directors being present.
The Non-Executive Directors met in November 2011 without the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The SID was to discuss theoutcome of the review with the Chairman, Mr Ravi Ruia, however, due to the subsequent interim change in Chairman in December 2011, it was felt to be inappropriate to continue with this review.
The Non-Executive Directors considered it too early in the appointment of Mr Prashant Ruia as Chairman to conduct a meaningful evaluation of his performance.
The Board has undertaken an evaluation of its performance and the performance of its committees.
The evaluation process included each Director completing an evaluation questionnaire and the subsequent outcome was considered and reviewed by the Nomination and Governance Committee in detail, the results of which were reported to the Board.
The evaluation of the Board did not identify any material issues.
Certain areas for improvement were identied and these were addressed during the period.
The Company intends to engage an external facilitator to undertake an evaluation of the Board at least every three years, incompliance with the Governance Code.
The first such externally facilitated evaluation will likely be undertaken during the financial year ending 31 March 2013.
All new Directors receive a comprehensive induction upon appointment to the Board.
Programmes of continuing professional development are arranged, as required, taking into account the individual qualications and experience of the Director.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring induction and training programmes are provided and the Company Secretary is tasked withorganising such programmes.
Individual Directors, with the support of the Company Secretary, are also expected to take responsibility for identifying their own training needs and to ensure that they are adequately informed about the Group and their responsibilities as a Director.
All of the Directors have received a comprehensive brieng on their duties and responsibilities as Directors of a UK Listed company by the Company or its advisors.
Further briengs and updates on key regulation, industry practices and other matters relating to the business were provided at Board meetings during the period to ensure that the Directors were kept informed of relevant developments.
A number of the Directors attended site visits during the period and further visits are planned during 2012.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
Both appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are a matter for the Board as a whole.
All Directors also have access to other members of the Senior Management and to the Groups professional advisors whom they can consult at the Companys expense should they consider this necessary in order tobetter discharge their responsibilities.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 60 Governance Corporate governance report continued The Board is required to disclose any actual or potential t the detecting of material misstatements by the auditor that conicts of interest and the Directors are aware of the need individually or in aggregate have not been corrected and to notify the Company of any potential conicts of interest.
managements explanations as to why adjustments have Directors declaration of interests forms a standard item on not been made: the agenda for each Board meeting.
Potential conicts are t the basis for the going concern assumption: and considered and, if appropriate, approved and noted with any t compliance with financial reporting standards and conicted Director not voting on the matter.
During the period relevant financial and governance requirements.
a number of potential conict situations were considered bythe Board and since no actual conict of interest was The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the identied in each case, they were authorised by the Board.
Auditor objectivity and Arecord of conicts or potential conicts for each Director is independence is safeguarded through a variety of maintained and reviewed on a regular basis by the Company.
To ensure the Auditors independence, the Committee annually reviews the Companys relationship with In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Deloitte.
The Company has various policies in place which Company, Mr Steve Lucas will submit himself for election by aim to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the shareholders at the Companys forthcoming AGM, being the external auditor.
This includes policies in respect of the first AGM following his appointment.
In addition, in compliance potential employment of former auditors, the types of with the Governance Code, all of the other Directors will offer non-audit services which the external auditors may and themselves for annual re-election by shareholders at the maynot provide to the Group, and the approval process in forthcoming AGM and intend to do so thereafter on an respect of permitted non-audit services.
In addition to the annualbasis at each future AGM.
approval process for specic non-audit services, the Audit Committee monitors the total level of non-audit services to The Board remains satisfied that following formal performance ensure that neither the objectivity nor independence of the evaluation, each individual Board members performance Auditor is at risk.
Following the review in 2012, the Company continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to their concluded that it continues to have an objective and respective roles, and therefore following the recommendation professional relationship with Deloitte and that there are of the Nomination and Governance Committee, that each sufficient controls and processes in place to ensure the Director proposed for election continues to be fully competent required level of independence.
In addition, the Auditor is to carry out his responsibilities as a member of the Board.
required to review and confirm its independence to the Committee on a regular basis.
When considering the The Board Committees reappointment of the Companys external auditor before Terms of reference for each of the following committees are making a recommendation to the Board to be put to available on the Companys website, www.
shareholders, the Committee reviewed and monitored theexternal auditors independence and objectivity and Audit Committee theeffectiveness of the audit process.
Accordingly, the Chairman: Mr Sattar Hajee Abdoula Committee recommends the reappointment of Deloitte LLP Members: Mr Subhas Lallah and Mr Simon Murray at the forthcoming AGM.
until 1 July 2012 As of 1 July 2012, Mr Simon Murray and Mr Steve Lucas will During 2010, the Committee appointed the remuneration be members of the Audit Committee.
Mr Sattar Hajee consultancy practice of Deloitte LLP to provide independent Abdoula will remain as Chairman of the Committee.
advice to the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee advisors terms of reference are in accordance Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee is required with APB Ethical Standard 5 and restrict the provision of to meet at least three times a year or more frequently as certain services in order to maintain auditor independence.
During the period, the Audit Committee has met five times.
The Audit Committee reports on its During the 15 month period ended 31 March 2012, the activities to the Board, immediately following its meetings.
scope and value of services provided by the remuneration consultancy practice of Deloitte LLP was reviewed and the During the period the Audit Committee has carried out various Remuneration Committee took steps to consider alternative activities in accordance with the responsibilities set out in its advisors to advise the Remuneration Committee.
terms of reference including the activities described below.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and The Audit Committee has reviewed the 2012 Annual Report reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
including the Preliminary Results before recommending them Since 2010, the Group internal audit function was provided to the Board.
In doing so the Committee reviewed and through an outsourced service by Ernst & Young Pvt.
discussed the preliminary results and annual financial Limited.
In September 2011, a Head of Internal Audit was statements with management and the external auditor appointed to take over responsibility for this function with focusing particularly on: Ernst & Young Pvt.
Limited being retained as a service t the quality and acceptability of the accounting policies provider to the Head of Internal Audit.
and practices and financial reporting disclosures and changes thereto: Internal audit is an independent review and support function t areas involving significant judgement, estimation whose primary role is to provide an objective evaluation oruncertainty: ofoperations, information and control systems that the Company has put in place, primarily to the Audit Committee Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIA L OVERVIE W REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENT S 61 but also as a service to management.
It provides analysis, The role of the Nomination and Governance Committee recommendations, counsel, and information concerning istoidentify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, the activities examined and provides assurance as well as candidates to ll Board vacancies as and when they arise guidance on the development of effective and efficient aswell as putting in place plans for succession for Directors controls with respect to process integrity, accuracy in and senior executives within the Group, in particular with reporting and compliance with policies and regulation.
respect to the Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial As part of this service to management the Head of Internal officer of the Company.
Such plans are reviewed at least Audit meets quarterly with the management of each of every sixmonths.
therespective business groups, as well as the senior management of the Company, as part of a Management Under its terms of reference, the Nomination and Governance Audit Committee to appraise senior management about Committee is also responsible for reviewing the structure, important audit issues and the steps taken by management size and composition, including the skills, knowledge and to address control gaps.
The Management Audit Committee experience, of the Board and making recommendations to the meetings are chaired by the Chief Executive Ofcers of the Board about adjustments.
When making an appointment, the respective business groups and are held every quarter.
Committee is required by its terms of reference to evaluate the Atthese meetings functional departmental heads are also balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and invited to provide clarifications and explanations on the audit consider candidates on merit and against objective criteria, findings and action plans.
The meetings also provide an taking care that appointees have enough time available to opportunity for the internal audit team to report on their devote to the position.
activities directly to management to ensure actions are takingplace and highlight any remedial actions necessary.
During the period the Committee met five times and details Additionally, the Head of Internal Audit also meets separately of members attendance is set out in the table on page 59. with the Chairman of the Audit Committee at least once every quarter either in person or through a teleconference.
The main focus of the Committee during the period has been management reorganisation, succession planning, review of Remuneration Committee Board structure, size, composition and diversity including Chairman: Mr Subhas Lallah gender diversity, evaluation of the Boards effectiveness, Members: Mr Philip Aiken and Simon Murray appraisal of the Chairman and the appointment of a fifth until 1 July 2012 Independent Non-Executive Director.
As of 1 July 2012, Mr Philip Aiken and Mr Steve Lucas will bemembers of the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Subhas The appointment of Mr Steve Lucas as the fifth Independent Lallah will remain as Chairman of the Committee.
Non-Executive Director to the Board of the Company followed the process as set out in the Nomination and The role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine Governance Committees terms of reference, save as set thelevels of remuneration for the Chief Executive officer outbelow with regard to external advertising.
andthe Chairman, and recommends and monitors the leveland structure of remuneration for members of the The Committee developed a list of potential candidates Senior Management and key management personnel.
based upon the agreed criteria from which they created a short list, taking into account the benets of diversity on the Under its terms of reference, the Remuneration Committee Board, including gender diversity.
isrequired to meet at least twice a year or more frequently as circumstances require.
During the period, the Remuneration On this occasion, the Committee did not make use of open Committee met three times.
The Remuneration Committee advertising or the services of an external search consultancy reports on its activities to the Board, immediately following as recommended in the Governance Code, because it was itsmeetings.
felt that the Committee could identify between themselves a broad and diverse range of good potential candidates that The main areas of focus of the Remuneration Committee could be included in the short list for further consideration.
during the period has been on the performance parameters The Committee did resolve, however, that should it have for the Chief Executive officer and other Senior Management, been unable to identify a short list of suitable candidates, post 2011 AGM feedback from investor institutional bodies, itwould have engaged an external search consultancy to and the establishment of two UK All Employee Share assist with the process.
Schemes in respect of Essar Oil UK.
Health, Safety and Environment Committee The Directors Remuneration report is set out on pages 66 Chairman: Mr Philip Aiken to70.
Members: Mr Naresh Nayyar and Mr Sattar Hajee Abdoula The membership and Chairman of this Committee will Nomination and Governance Committee remain the same as of 1 July 2012.
Chairman: Mr Simon Murray Members: Mr Prashant Ruia and Mr Subhas Lallah In February 2012, the members of the Committee were until 1 July 2012 reviewed and Mr Sattar Hajee Abdoula replaced Mr KVB As of 1 July 2012, Mr Prashant Ruia, Mr Subhas Lallah Reddy as a member of this Committee to achieve the correct andMr Philip Aiken will be members of the Nomination and balance of Non-Executive Directors.
Mr Simon Murray will remain as Chairman of the Committee.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 62 Governance Corporate governance report continued The Health, Safety and Environment Committee assists the Control environment Board and the Senior Management in obtaining assurance The Groups operating procedures include appropriate that appropriate systems are in place to deal with the systems for reporting information to the Directors.
These management of health, safety and environmental risks.
procedures are business dependent but all significant TheHealth, Safety and Environment Committee meets at operational businesses use SAP general ledger computer least twice a year and in general the Health, Safety and systems with automated controls and reconciliation processes.
Environment Committee meetings are held in India with eachmeeting including a site visit, or on site at the Stanlow Budgets are prepared by the management of the respective renery in the UK.
During the period the Committee met business groups and subject to review by the Chief Executive three times.
The focus of those meetings has been on officer and then the Directors.
The approved budgets are process safety management also known as PSM and the thenused as the basis for controlling expenditure, with development of the Groups health, safety and environment approval levels varying based on whether an item is within culture within all operations and at all sites.
For further information on health, safety and environment, The Senior Management and the Board review monthly please refer to the Companys separate 201112 management reports on the financial results and key operating sustainability report, which can be accessed at statistics, together with a brief written explanation of significant www.
The management reports are presented by the respective accountable individuals who Internal Control provide further explanations as required.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and has delegated The individual businesses monitor the progress of the to the Audit Committee its responsibility for reviewing the expansion projects through regular project management effectiveness of these controls.
The system of internal control review meetings to review progress and escalate issues to is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure the Chief Executive officer, with any major issues reported to achieve business objectives, and can only provide tothe Board.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Emphasis is placed on the quality and abilities of the Groups employees, with structured evaluation processes and access The Group maintains a register of key controls and procedures to a variety of online, internally and externally provided learning which is reviewed and updated annually.
As part of its risk and development tools.
This is provided through a shared based internal audit plan, the Group Internal Audit function service agreement with the Essar Global Human Resources continually assesses the control environment to provide function that was agreed as part of the Listing process and assurance on the design and operating effectiveness of enabled the seamless transition of employee development.
The President Human Resources of Essar Global is invited toattend Remuneration Committee meetings.
Control structure The Board sets the policy on internal control that is The acquisition of any business requires a rigorous implemented by management.
This is achieved through a analysisof the financial implications of the acquisition and clearly dened operating structure with lines of responsibility key performance gures.
A sensitivity analysis takes place and delegated authority.
ofthe key assumptions made in the analysis with formal presentations to the Board.
The policy set by the Board is formally documented in the Group Governance and Administration Manual the Manual The Senior Management and the Board have been provided which clearly defines the limits of delegated authority and with a report detailing any significant legal actions involving provides a framework for management to deal with areas Group companies, which provides a background to the case ofsignicant business risk.
and its current status within the appropriate legal system.
The Manual confirms a Code of Conduct that applies to Monitoring and review activities allareas of the business and covers a requirement for all A number of processes are in place for monitoring the system employees to comply with all applicable laws and regulations in of internal control and reporting any significant control failings the territories in which the Group operates.
At operational level or weaknesses together with details of corrective action, and this Code of Conduct is covered through the detailed human the Directors of each business division are required to certify resource policies that are available on the Groups intranet.
on an annual basis the operation of their control systems and to highlight any weaknesses.
The Board also approves individual policies covering areasthat are identied as key for the Board to monitor.
Since 2010 the Group internal audit function was provided Forexample, a policy on the process for entering into and through an outsourced service provided by Ernst & Young reporting related party transactions has been approved and Pvt.
In September 2011, a Head of Internal Audit was circulated throughout the Group with individual briengs to appointed to take over responsibility for this function with Ernst the key individuals responsible for managing the process.
Limited being retained as a service provider to the Head of Internal Audit.
The internal audit function reports These policies and procedures are reviewed and, where directly to the Audit Committee and has prepared a risk-based necessary, updated at Senior Management meetings.
audit plan agreed with the Audit Committee and undertaken a Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIA L OVERVIE W REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENT S 63 number of audits based on that plan.
The Group has awareness, face to face training sessions such as leadership also formed a Management Audit Committee within each programmes, train the trainers programmes, awareness significant business area of operation that meets on a programmes, e-news alerts and road shows.
In addition, the quarterly basis.
These meetings, chaired by the Chief Group ensures that all third parties are engaged following Executive Ofcers of the respective businesses, review the proper due diligence and that all contracts signed by the results of internal audit reports and follow up actions to assess Group incorporate appropriate anti-corruption clauses, the overall robustness of the control environment.
according to the relevant risk, in order to safeguard the interests of the Group.
Within each business area, detailed risk registers are maintained which provide information regarding the various risks within the Compliance reporting systems have also been implemented business.
Within each business area, there is a designated Risk to regularly monitor and track compliance with these policies officer who works closely with the Head of Internal Audit to and procedures at all levels of the Group.
The Group compile the half yearly and annual risk update report that is undertakes continuous review of its policies and procedures presented to and reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Material and continues to improve these to ensure that they are changes are reported to the Audit Committee.
significant risks adequate and meet the requirements of applicable antiand their mitigating actions along with any remedial actions are corruption and bribery laws.
The Companys internal audit monitored by the Senior Management and subsequently programme also monitors implementation of the policies, reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board.
procedures and systems in relation to anti-corruption and bribery to ensure that strategies are effectively implemented Reports from the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, on certain across the Group.
internal controls and relevant financial reporting matters, arepresented to the Audit Committee and management.
Review of effectiveness The Directors, the Chief Executive officer and the Chief A Whistleblowing hotline provides arrangements by which Financial officer consider that any controls and procedures, staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
reasonable and not absolute assurance of achieving the desired Staff may raise concerns in either English or the local language control objectives.
The Groups management is required to using a hotline phone number or by sending an email or letter apply judgement in evaluating the risks facing the Group in to addresses especially created for the purpose.
Regular achieving its objectives, in determining the risks that are updates on the Whistleblowing hotline are provided to the considered acceptable to bear, in assessing the likelihood of the Audit Committee by respective Management Audit risks concerned materialising, in identifying the Companys Committees.
The Companys Whistleblowing policy is ability to reduce the incidence and impact on the business of available on the Companys website, http: www.
risks that do materialise and in ensuring the costs of operating com about-us contact-us whistleblower-policy.
particular controls are proportionate to the benefit.
Anti-Corruption and Bribery In reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of Essar Energy is committed to ensuring that its strategy, internal controls, during the period the Board has, through business and operations are built around a culture of ethical the Management Audit Committee and the Audit Committee, business practice at all levels within the Company.
Since taken account of the matters summarised above.
The Board theUK Bribery Act 2010 came into force, the Company has considers that these matters provide the key building blocks carried out comprehensive risk assessment and developed for an assessment of the control environment and that the and strengthened our policies and systems procedures measures that have been implemented are appropriate to relating to anti-corruption and bribery in line with the Act.
The Board is committed to building on these OurAnti-Corruption Policy is fundamental to this.
measures through the execution of the internal audit programme and the continued review by the Management The Group has implemented extensive measures to ensure Audit Committee and Audit Committee.
that the Group, all its subsidiaries, branches, divisions and controlled afliated companies and all of its employees The control environment is assessed on an annual basis and comply with the Companys anti-corruption policies and the results are reported to the Audit Committee through the procedures.
All employees of the Company, including senior Internal Audit department.
This review covers the control management, are subject to ongoing communications and structure, control environment and the monitoring and review training to build awareness of its anti-corruption and bribery activities and is approved by the Audit Committee and policies and procedures.
The policies and procedures reported to the Board.
contain requirements in relation to i the conduct of employees: ii arrangements pertaining to political Relations with investors contributions, charitable donations, gifts, hospitality, The Company is committed to the promotion of investor entertainment and sponsored travel and retaining third confidence by ensuring that trade in its securities takes place parties: and iii prohibition of facilitation payments.
in an efficient, competitive and informed market.
The Board is keenly aware of the importance of forthright communication To create enterprise-wide awareness and improve as key to building shareholder value and of the importance of understanding of the anti-corruption policies and procedures developing a dialogue with shareholders to ensure that the across all levels of employment, the Group utilises various Board keeps abreast of and understands the views and channels of information and communication technologies, opinions of shareholders.
including an online competency evaluation tool on Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 64 Governance Corporate governance report continued It has achieved this during the period in a number of The Annual General Meeting waysincluding: The Companys AGM will be held on Tuesday, 4 September t ensuring that all material information on the Company is 2012.
Separate resolutions on substantially separate issues will broadly disseminated to investors, analysts and the media be put to the AGM and proxy forms will allow shareholders to and that this information is available on the Companys vote for, against or withhold a vote on a resolution.
Details of website at www.
Distribution of the proxy votes counted will be announced at the meeting and information is via the UKs regulatory news service, via on the Companys website after the meeting.
The Chairman of email to the Companys extensive contact database and the Board and the Chairmen of each of the Board Committees through an email alert system on the Companys website: will be available to answer questions put forward to them by t the Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial officer and shareholders of the Company.
The 2012 Annual Report and Director of Investor Relations and Communications the Notice of the AGM will be sent to shareholders at least 20 regularly meet institutional shareholders, potential working days prior to the date of the meeting.
investors and analysts either individually or as part of group meetings: t holding presentations to or conference calls with investors Simon Murray and analysts at the time of announcements of quarterly Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Interim Management Statements and financial results or on behalf of the Board other major news.
Historical web-casts of half and full year financial results announcements are held on the 22 June 2012 Companys website for a minimum of 12 months: t regularly providing investor relations update reports describing investor and analyst opinions to the Board: t arranging site visits for investors and analysts in order to provide more detailed knowledge of the Essar Energy Group.
During 2011, two site visits were organised in India for investors and analysts which included presentations by the business teams, copies of which are available on the Companys website: and t ensuring that relevant and up-to-date information on theCompany and its operations, together with press releases, financial results and Annual Reports, are available on the Companys website.
The Company has taken advantage of the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which allow the Companys website to be used as the primary means of communicating with those shareholders who have not specically requested hard copy documentation.
The Shareholder Information section of this report contains further details on electronic communications with shareholders.
The Board regards the Companys AGM as a valuable opportunity to communicate with the Companys investors and to address shareholders questions.
In addition, the Directors generally make themselves available before and after the formal meeting to talk informally to shareholders.
The Companys Director of Investor Relations and Communications, Mr Mark Lidiard, is based in the London ofce and is contactable on 44 0 20 7408 7660 or ir@essar.
com Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012
