56 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Report The Filtrona Board is accountable to all the Companys stakeholders for the standards of governance which are maintained across Filtronas diverse range of global businesses Filtrona confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2012 Board composition and independence the Company has complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 the Code.
During 2012, the Filtrona Board continued to comprise a Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
For the 2013 Annual Report, the Company will be applying the Code which The Board is of the view that it has a highly competent Chairman and that was published in September 2012 and effective for accounting periods the members of the Board in conjunction with the senior executive teams commencing thereafter.
are well equipped to drive, and are capable of delivering, the Companys Vision 2015 strategy.
The Chairman and each of the other Non-Executive A copy of the Code can be viewed on the Financial Reporting Councils Directors have considerable international experience at a senior level in the website www.
management of activities broadly similar to those carried out by Filtrona and the material issues likely to arise for the Company.
For the 2012 Annual Report, the Company applies the Codes principles of openness, integrity and accountability through its own behaviour, corporate Following Steve Crummetts resignation from the Board in September governance best practice and by adopting, as appropriate and proportionate 2012, Matthew Gregory was appointed an Executive Director and for a company of the size and nature of Filtrona, recommendations of assumed responsibility as Group Finance Director.
Biographical details of all the current Directors are set out on pages 50 to 51.
The Companys governance structure, based on the leadership principles of the Code, was reviewed during the year and the Board continues to The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separately held and believe that the structure remains appropriate.
The Board is collectively are so dened as to ensure a clear separation of responsibilities.
Details are responsible for the long-term success of the Company, and its role is to available on the Company website www.
The Chairman leads provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework the Board and ensures its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive is responsible of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and for the executive management and performance of Filtronas operations.
managed in the pursuit of the Companys strategic objectives.
Roles The Senior Independent SI Non-Executive Director, Paul Drechsler, can be contacted via the Companys registered ofce.
In that role he is available to shareholders to discuss and develop an understanding of their issues and any concerns which cannot be resolved by discussions with the Chairman, the Chief Executive or Group Finance Director or where such contact is inappropriate.
