"Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance | Corporate Governance Report 57 THE CHAIRMAN The conduct of Board matters t Drives the effective operation of the Board in conformity In managing the affairs of the Company, the Board has adopted a schedule with corporate governance requirements of reserved matters which are reviewed annual, including: t Leads the Board and sets the agenda t Supports the development of strategy t 4USBUFHZ BOE SFTPVSDFT t Ensures effective communication between the Board, shareholders t ""OOVBM QMBO and other relevant stakeholders t 5SFBTVSZ QPMJDJFT t Promotes the relationship between the Board and management t. BKPS DBQJUBM BOE PQFSBUJOH FYQFOEJUVSF QSPQPTBMT t ""DRVJTJUJPOT BOE EJTQPTBMT t %FCU GBDJMJUJFT t, FZ SPVQ QPMJDJFT THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE t ""QQPJOUNFOUT UP UIF #PBSE t 4ZTUFNT PG JOUFSOBM DPOUSPM t Leads and motivates the management team t %JWJEFOE QBZNFOUT t Is responsible to the Board for the performance of the business t $BUFHPSJFT PG QVCMJD BOOPVODFNFOUT t Drives the organisational structure t Ensures the resourcing and development of management talent The detailed implementation of all these and general operational matters t Develops proposals for the Boards consideration are the responsibility of executive senior management and regular formal management reports are provided to the Board."
During 2012, the Board was closely engaged in the detailed monitoring of performance and the actions necessary to maintain the balanced, For the year ended 31 December 2012 it was the opinion of the Board profitable growth of the Company in accordance with its Vision 2015 that Paul Drechsler, Lars Emilson and Terry Twigger were each considered objectives.
It also remained focused on the longer-term strategic objectives to be independent of management.
In assessing independence, the which it has dened, and the appropriate management of particular risks Board considers that the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are impacting the Group within the risk appetite parameters which were independent of management and free from business and other relationships dened by the Board during the year.
which could interfere with the exercise of independent judgement now and in the future.
The Board believes that any shareholdings of the Boards and Committees Chairman and Non-Executive Directors serve to align their interests with those of the shareholders.
During the year there were six scheduled Board meetings, one of which was held at the Protection & Finishing Products Kidlington, UK facility.
In The Board considers that the Non-Executive Directors provide an addition to the scheduled formal meetings, the Board met on a number of independent view in Board discussions and in the development of the other occasions as required and, in particular, reviewed in detail the further Companys strategy.
Non-Executive Directors also ensure a sound basis for development and delivery of the Group strategy.
The Chairman and Chief good corporate governance of the Company, challenging managements Executive maintain regular contact with the Directors, and the Chairman performance and, in conjunction with the Executive Directors, ensuring also holds periodic informal discussions with the Non-Executive Directors, that rigorous financial controls and systems of risk management are without any of the Executive Directors being present, to review performance, maintained as appropriate to the needs of the businesses within Filtrona.
discuss succession issues and to monitor corporate control mechanisms.
The Board is content that the Non-Executive Directors devote sufficient The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary & General time to the business of Filtrona.
Counsel, sets the programme for the Board during the year.
The Board considers reports from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director The letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors are available for covering operational, financial performance and other significant business review at the Companys registered ofce and prior to the Annual General issues.
Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion, and all Meeting AGM.
Directors participate in determining the Groups strategy and regularly reviewing the trading and financial performance of the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association require that all new Directors seek election to the Board at the AGM following their appointment.
In addition, Committees are a valuable part of the Companys corporate governance the Board has agreed that, in compliance with the Code, all current Directors structure, and the Board looks to the Audit Committee in particular to will put themselves forward for re-election on an annual basis.
Following undertake the majority of the work involved in monitoring and seeking the Board performance evaluation undertaken during the financial year, assurance as to compliance with the controls within this framework.
the Board is satisfied that each of the Directors being put forward for However, the Board as a whole maintains oversight of such important re-election continues to be effective and that their ongoing commitment matters and after each Audit Committee meeting the Chairman of the to the role is undiminished.
Audit Committee reports on the matters which have been reviewed.
The responsibilities of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are dened within the Committees Terms of Reference, copies of which are available at www.
58 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Report continued Other specic responsibilities are delegated to the Nomination and Conict of interests Remuneration Committees.
These Committees report as appropriate to the Board.
The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider and, if it sees t, to authorise situations where a Director has an interest that Each of the Committees has terms of reference approved by the Board, conicts, or may possibly conict, with the interests of the Company.
In copies of which are available on the Companys website or on request addition, the Company has a conict of interests policy governing the from the Company Secretary & General Counsel.
responsibilities of Directors in such situations.
The decision to authorise a conict of interest can only be made by non-conicted directors those Operational matters and the responsibility for the day-to-day management who have no interest in the matter being considered, and in making such of the businesses are delegated to the Chief Executive, supported by a decision the Directors must act honestly and in good faith when giving members of senior executive management and the respective Divisional authorisation where they think this is appropriate, and will be most likely Managing Directors or Presidents as appropriate, within delegated authority to promote the Companys success.
The Company Secretary & General limits and in accordance with clearly dened systems of internal control.
Counsel maintains a register of Directors interests, so that any potential concerns are addressed before any material concerns may arise.
During The Board was supported during the year by the Group Management the course of the year, there were no material conicts of interest Committee the GMC, which ensures a strong link between Filtronas impacting on the conduct of the Boards activities.
overall corporate strategy and its implementation within an effective internal control environment.
Information and professional development Engagement with management The Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary & General Counsel, takes responsibility for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely The Board receives detailed reports at each scheduled Board meeting on and clear information.
the operational and financial performance of the businesses from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, together with regular updates On appointment an induction programme tailored to their individual on any material issues which may impact the Group.
needs is available to Directors, and is designed to assist them in their understanding of Filtrona and its operations.
Throughout a Directors The Board receives detailed presentations from each of the Managing tenure they are encouraged to develop their knowledge of the Group Directors or Presidents of the divisions during the course of the year, through meetings with senior management and site visits.
Directors are in addition to reviewing their respective strategic plans and budgets.
also provided with updates, as appropriate, on matters such as duciary The Board also considers reports from senior management about matters duties, Companies Act requirements, share dealing restrictions and of material importance to the Company which arise from time to time.
There is a programme of meetings, both formal and informal, with members All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company of the senior executive management and the Board has the opportunity Secretary & General Counsel, who is responsible to the Chairman for to engage with local management during site visits.
The Board derives ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and that applicable rules a better understanding of the Companys operations and business model and regulations are followed.
During the year under review, the Company as a result of such contact.
Secretary & General Counsels advice was sought in relation to share dealings.
In the furtherance of their duties, there are agreed procedures Applying Filtronas Corporate Responsibility principles for the Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
No Director took independent professional The Chief Executive is the Director with primary responsibility for the advice during the year.
implementation and integration of Filtronas Corporate Responsibility principles across the Company.
During 2012 the Group Human Resources Director, supported by the Company Secretary & General Counsel, was responsible for co-ordinating the operation of the detailed policies on human resources, health and safety, ethics and the environment which support Filtronas commitment to its Corporate Responsibility principles.
Further details of those policies can be viewed via the Corporate Responsibility page on the Companys website at www.
Following the appointment of the Group Operations Director during the year, the Group Human Resources Director handed over responsibility for all HS&E matters with effect from 1 January 2013.
Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance | Corporate Governance Report 59 Performance evaluation Shareholder communications The Board considers the evaluation of its performance and that of the Audit, The Board recognises the importance of effective communication and Nomination and Remuneration Committees annually, with each Committee seeks to maintain open and transparent relationships with its shareholders also evaluating its own performance.
This year the Board engaged an and other stakeholders, including providers of finance, customers and external facilitator, Lintstock, for full Board and Committee evaluations.
This is achieved by regular updates through press announcements, the corporate website and other published material.
The first stage of the review involved Lintstock engaging with the Chairman and the Company Secretary & General Counsel, to set the context for the The Company also communicates regularly with its major institutional evaluation and to tailor the heads of enquiry to the specic circumstances shareholders and ensures that all the Directors, including the Nonof the Filtrona Board.
All Directors completed an online questionnaire Executive Directors, have an understanding of the views and concerns addressing the performance of the Board, Committees and the Chairman, of major shareholders and are able to explain business developments with an upward review of the Board by the Divisional Heads and the Group and financial results as appropriate.
The Chief Executive, Group Finance Human Resources Director also being conducted.
Director and the Corporate Affairs Director have primary responsibility for investor relations.
Presentations for analysts and institutional Interviews were conducted in two phases: first with management and shareholders were held during the year and meetings were also held the Executive Directors and second with the Non-Executive Directors and with key institutional investors to discuss strategy, financial performance the Chairman.
Two partners from Lintstock attended each interview, with and investment activities.
Slide presentations are made immediately the anonymity of all respondents being ensured throughout the process available after the full year and half year results, and are also available in order to promote the open and frank exchange of views.
on the Companys website to view and download.
Lintstock subsequently produced a report which addressed the All shareholders have the opportunity to meet any of the Directors of following areas: the Company should they so wish.
Feedback from meetings with shareholders is provided to the Board so they are aware of any issues or concerns.
t The current composition of the Board and the necessity for changes Additionally, the Board uses the AGM as an occasion to communicate to the prole of the Board to facilitate the delivery of the Companys with all shareholders, including private investors, who are provided with strategic objectives in Vision 2015 and beyond the opportunity to question the Directors.
t The Boards knowledge and understanding of the opportunities, risks and challenges associated with Vision 2015, and the Boards At the AGM the level of proxy votes lodged on each resolution will be understanding of the views of major investors and stakeholders made available, both at the meeting and subsequently on the Companys t The structure of Board meetings, and the quality of materials presented website.
Each substantially separate issue is presented as a separate to the Board resolution, and the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration t The balance between the operational and strategic oversight role of Committees are available to answer questions from shareholders.
the Board and its views as to the strategic priorities of the Company t The Boards risk appetite and views as to the key risks facing the Company The Notice of the AGM and related papers will be posted to shareholders t Succession planning and the role of the Board in ensuring that there more than 20 working days before the AGM.
are appropriate human resources in place for the Company to meet its objectives Financial reporting t The composition and performance of the Committees of the Board, and the performance of the Chairman The Directors have acknowledged, in the Statement of Directors t The perception of the Board and the Companys strategy by the Responsibilities set out on page 79, their responsibility for preparing Divisional Heads and the Group Human Resources Director, as well the financial statements of the Company and the Group.
The external as areas of focus required in order for the Board to add maximum value auditor has included, in the Independent Auditors Report set out on to the business page 126, a statement about their reporting responsibilities.
Lintstock is engaged to deliver a three-year Board development programme, The Directors are also responsible for the publication of unaudited quarterly with the review content for each subsequent evaluation being designed Interim Management Statements and Half Year Results as required by the to build upon learning gained in the previous year to ensure that the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority, recommendations agreed in the review are implemented and that providing an explanation of material events and transactions that have year-on-year progress is measured.
taken place during the relevant period and their impact on the financial position of the Company and the Group and a general description of the financial position and performance as well as the Company and the Group during the relevant period.
60 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Report continued Directors and Ofcers insurance Policies and procedures, which are subject to ongoing review and updated as required in response to strategic, operational, business, In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, and to the legal or regulatory developments, with the approval of the Board or its extent permitted by the laws of England and Wales, the Directors are respective Committees as appropriate, are communicated across the granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of those liabilities Group.
Filtronas internal controls are designed to ensure significant risks, incurred as a result of their ofce.
In respect of those matters for which the investment decisions and management issues are identied, considered Directors may not be indemnified, the Company maintained a directors and escalated as necessary at the earliest opportunity.
Divisional and ofcers liability insurance policy throughout the year.
It is anticipated Managing Directors and Presidents are responsible for ensuring the this policy will be renewed.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor the communication of and compliance with Filtronas internal controls insurance provides cover to the extent that the Director is proven to have across their respective divisions.
Control of significant risks Internal controls The Board has two main responsibilities in relation to risk.
One is to In accordance with the Code, the Board acknowledges its overall determine the risk appetite and communicate to the organisation what responsibility to shareholders to ensure that an adequate system of risk constitutes acceptable risk-taking.
The second responsibility, which is management and internal control is in place.
This is essential for reliable delegated to the Audit Committee, is to oversee the management process financial reporting and also for the effective management of the Group.
for the identication, assessment and mitigation of risk across the Group.
The effectiveness of the system has been delegated to the Audit A Group Risk policy is in place which supports the Board in fullling these Committee which assesses the quality of the control environment when responsibilities and serves to reinforce the risk review processes embedded monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the Groups financial statements within the businesses.
and any significant judgements that were made in their preparation.
The Board is of the view that a rigorous ongoing process for identifying, Filtronas internal controls are designed to safeguard the Companys evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Company was in assets, and to ensure the integrity and reliability of information used place throughout 2012, and up to the date of approval of the Annual both within the businesses and for public announcements.
This process has been reviewed by the Audit Committee has overall responsibility in the Companys system of internal control and will be reviewed routinely to ensure that the system of internal control and risk management, and for reviewing the effectiveness of this and risk management remains t for purpose.
Such a system can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can During the year the Board undertook a detailed exercise to consider therefore only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance the Groups risk appetite in a number of key areas.
This exercise was against material misstatement or loss.
undertaken in addition to the evaluation, monitoring and mitigation of the key risks facing the Company, which is undertaken as part of the risk The following procedures are in place, which enable the Board to review management processes and the disclosure of Principal Risks on pages 38 the effectiveness of the system of internal control: to 41 of this Report.
t The Audit Committee meets regularly and reviews the effectiveness The Board exercise was conducted over several meetings during the year of the internal control environment of the Group and was facilitated by the Group Head of Assurance and the Company t The Audit Committee is supported by the Group Assurance function Secretary & General Counsel, with support from an external adviser.
The which undertakes extensive internal audit responsibilities across the Group discussions centred on the risk requirements of the Company, strategic, t Risk management reports are presented which detail an analysis of the financial, operational, talent and compliance objectives and took into key risks at a Group level, summarise developments potentially impacting account the views of the GMC who had separately assessed the relative the Group from a risk, governance or compliance perspective and risk appetite across the relevant factors.
propose actions for the Company in response to such developments t The Board has the opportunity to review the internal control environment The risk appetite established by the Board provides clarity on those areas at local sites when Board meetings are held away from the Companys where the Board wishes to take little or no risk, and those where the Board head ofce would be comfortable adopting a greater level of risk taking.
It is intended t Every month each division submits detailed operating and financial that this assessment will be used to support the Boards ongoing decision reports covering all aspects of performance.
These are reviewed making and underpin the risk management processes across the Company.
within the Groups central finance function and summary reports are communicated to the GMC and the Board t Certicates are required from the businesses to confirm compliance with the Groups policies and procedures t Self-certication is required from all businesses and divisions at both the half year and year end to confirm compliance with Group financial policies and procedures Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance | Corporate Governance Report 61 Risk appetite will change over time to reect changes in the economic Audit Committee 2012 key activities environment, strategy and the performance of the Company and it is the intention of the Board to review this at least on an annual basis in Financial statements and reports conjunction with its strategic and financial planning processes.
t Examined the 31 December 2011 Annual Report and Accounts and the 30 June 2012 Half Year report.
This involved reviewing, challenging and The Company has an established process for the development of risk approving the going concern basis of preparation, the accounting policies practices.
Further to the setting of the risk appetite by the Board there and disclosures, the financial reporting issues and the assumptions and is a more formal method of dening acceptable levels of risk within the judgements of the Group finance management organisation.
The risk process has evolved and is validated through the t Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and preparation of risk registers which are used to assess risk tolerances and disclosures made in the annual report and financial statements the registers are reviewed and discussed at the GMC prior to being put t Reviewed and considered the Groups taxation provisions and forward to the Audit Committee on a semi-annual basis.
planning activities With the development of the Group Assurance function during 2012, Risk management and internal audit further controls have been introduced to improve effectiveness, reduce t Reviewed and considered reports from the Group Head of Assurance costs and support business performance.
including any issues relating to internal controls and the status of actions taken in response to any identied concerns During 2013 a risk management technology platform is being introduced t Assessed the areas of focus for internal audit and the adequacy of which will enhance the reporting tools currently being used and will enable coverage, having regard to the potential risks impacting the Group the Company to improve risk management, develop risk strategies into risk t Reviewed the output from the Group processes used to identify, evaluate mitigation, and eliminate any lack of coverage.
and mitigate risk, and considered the key risks arising from the Companys activities and the response of senior management to those challenges THE AUDIT COMMITTEE t Assessed the Companys response to cyber security and IT risks Committee Chairman: Terry Twigger t Oversaw compliance activities and monitored the impact of the business and regulatory environment t Reviewed the adequacy of the Companys resources in relation to financial Membership and attendance reporting, tax and treasury management requirements Terry Twigger Non-Executive Director 3 3 External auditors and non-audit work Paul Drechsler SI Non-Executive Director 3 3 t Reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken Lars Emilson Non-Executive Director 2 3 by the external auditor t Agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to the external The Company Secretary & General Counsel acts as Secretary to the auditor for its audit of the 31 December 2012 financial statements Audit Committee.
t Received a report from the external auditor on its independence and objectivity including, quality control procedures Other attendees t Reviewed the qualications, expertise, resources and independence The external auditor, Chairman of the Company, Chief Executive, Group of the external auditor and assessed its performance Finance Director and Group Head of Assurance attended meetings.
During t Reviewed proposals for the engagement of the external auditor the year, the Audit Committee met the external auditor and the Group for non-audit services Head of Assurance without the Company management being present.
The Audit Committee supports the Board in establishing formal and Governance transparent arrangements for considering how it should apply the required All the Committee members are independent Non-Executive Directors financial reporting, internal control principles and risk management and have financial and or related business experience gained in senior processes and the audit of the financial statements of the Company.
positions in other large diverse organisations.
The Audit Committee reports to the full Board on a regular basis, but Terry Twigger has been the Chairman of the Audit Committee since 2009 no less frequently than at every board meeting following a Committee and the Board is satisfied that Terry has recent and relevant financial meeting.
There is an annual cycle of items that are to be considered by the experience, further details of which can be found on page 51.
The timetable of these items is scheduled in accordance with the requirements of the annual audit cycle.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are dened in its terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, copies of which are available at www.
The Audit Committee takes responsibility for reviewing the Groups internal controls through its engagement with the new Group Assurance function.
The Group Head of Assurance is responsible for providing assurances as to the adequacy of internal controls function throughout the Group and attends each Committee meeting.
At the start of the year the Committee agrees the annual internal audit plan, which is drawn up on a risk-based approach across a broad section of the Companys 62 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 activities.
Any significant findings from internal control audits undertaken The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the financial during the year have been appropriately investigated and necessary statements.
The audit includes the review and test of the system of internal action taken to address and rectify any weaknesses that have been financial control and the data contained in the financial statements to the identied.
As a result of the processes and reporting in place the Audit extent necessary for expressing an audit opinion on the truth and fairness Committee is satisfied that management is giving its full attention to of the financial statements.
A summary progress report is presented at each Audit Committee and a semi-annual risk report is submitted to correspond Non-audit services policy with the reporting of half and full year results.
The importance of maintaining the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, by minimising its involvement in projects of a non-audit The internal procedures implemented by the Company to ensure the Board nature, is of concern to the Committee.
It is, however, also acknowledged maintains overall control for all material strategic, financial, operational and that, due to its detailed understanding of the Companys business, it compliance matters affecting the Company are included within the internal may sometimes be necessary to involve the external auditor in non-audit control section of this Report.
The Board establishes the standards and related work, principally comprising further assurance services relating values that govern the Group and agrees the structure of the Groups to due diligence and other duties carried out in respect of acquisitions, internal controls.
The Audit Committee has adopted a policy in relation to the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit Engagement of the external auditor services, with dened parameters and approval requirements in relation KPMG has been the Companys auditor since the Companys public listing to any such appointments.
KPMG provide the Committee with relevant reports, reviews, information and advice throughout the year as set out in the terms of their The majority of the non-audit work carried out by the external auditor engagement.
Their performance was formally assessed by the Committee during the year related to tax compliance services and acquisition activity in conjunction with the executive management team and the Committee in overseas jurisdictions, and the Committee believes that given their is satisfied that they continue to be effective and provide an appropriate experience KPMG were the most appropriate suppliers of this work.
independent challenge of the Companys management.
In making its THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE assessment of the external auditor, the Committee had due regard to their expertise, resourcing and independence.
Committee Chairman: Jeff Harris In accordance with UK regulations, the Companys auditor adheres to a Membership and attendance rotation policy based on best practice and accounting standards, and the current lead audit partner has been in place for two years.
There are no Jeff Harris Non-Executive Chairman 3 3 contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of external auditor Paul Drechsler SI Non-Executive Director 3 3 and no auditor liability agreement has been entered into by the Company.
Lars Emilson Non-Executive Director 2 3 Terry Twigger Non-Executive Director 3 3 In addition to the annual review of the service provided by the external auditors, the Audit Committee gives consideration from time to time to The Company Secretary & General Counsel acts as Secretary to the whether the audit might be provided more efficiently or effectively by an Nomination Committee.
alternative audit rm, and the Company may put the audit out to tender at any time if the Committee deemed it appropriate.
During the year the Nomination Committee comprised Jeff Harris, who chairs the Committee, Paul Drechsler, Lars Emilson and Terry Twigger.
The The Audit Committee remains satisfied with the effectiveness of the Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director attend by invitation external auditor and it does not consider it necessary to conduct a tender as appropriate.
However, having regard to the new requirements of the Code on tendering the audit, the Audit Committee intends to give The Nomination Committee meets as required, and during 2012 it met consideration during the year to any future process to ensure compliance three times.
with the Code and the appointment of the best service provider, to ensure that the Company continues to receive a high quality and effective audit.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for selecting and recommending candidates for appointment as Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
In furtherance of these duties and when considering succession planning, the Nomination Committee looks at the balance, structure and composition of the Board and takes into account the future challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance | Corporate Governance Report 63 Nomination Committee 2012 key activities t Reviewed the succession planning for the Board and senior executives and in doing so considered diversity, experience, knowledge and skills t Reviewed the composition and structure of the Companys Board and the Committees t Reviewed the Group Conict of Interests policy and register and was satisfied that there were no material issues of conict t Reviewed and made recommendations to the Board in respect to the Group Finance Director successor During the year the Nomination Committee considered Matthew Gregory for appointment as the Group Finance Director, taking into consideration the requirements of the role, the skills and experience required and the benets of Board diversity.
Matthews capabilities and suitability were independently assessed by an external resource, The Zygos Partnership, and benchmarked against potential external recruits.
Having considered the independent assessment of Matthew, and having regard to his financial and senior management capabilities, experience of Filtrona, the benets of continuity at a time of considerable change within the Company and potential to further enhance the performance of the Board and the Company, his appointment was recommended to the Board.
The Nomination Committee and the Board as a whole supports the spirit of the recommendations set out in the Lord Davies Report Women on Boards in securing the right combination of skills, experience and expertise on the Board to effectively lead the sustainable growth and success of the Company for the benefit of all stakeholders.
The fundamental objective must be to ensure that the best people are appointed to do the best job for Filtrona taking into consideration other factors such as market and international experience and diversity of thought and background.
Appointing people on merit without any form of discrimination is a key component of Filtrona policies across all its international operations at all levels.
In recognising the benets of gender diversity, in conjunction with the development of any robust succession planning, the Nomination Committee has concluded that any future engagement of executive search agents in relation to potential appointments to the Board should include a specic instruction to ensure that the widest possible eld of female candidates be identied for consideration.
A search for a replacement for Lars Emilson has been initiated on these terms.
A copy of the Companys statement on diversity is available on the website www.
64 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Remuneration Committee Chairmans Letter Our remuneration policy seeks to align the interests of shareholders and Executive Directors and secure the talent necessary for the successful delivery of Vision 2015.
Paul Drechsler Remuneration Committee Chairman The three year TSR and EPS performance conditions for the LTIP A and LTIP Dear Shareholder B awards made in September 2009 were achieved and so these awards vested in full.
As Chairman of the Filtrona Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present the 2012 Remuneration Report for which we will seeking approval from the The Committees review of the salary of the Chief Executive determined shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
that an increase of 6.4% should be applied from 1 January 2013.
Colin Day has inspired a new growth agenda at Filtrona and as the Company develops The current remuneration policy is focused on aligning the interests of and further expands its global reach, scale and complexity, the benets executives with shareholders and is structured to enable the Group to of the changes he has driven are being seen by all stakeholders.
attract, motivate and retain the talent required to deliver Vision 2015.
When considering the senior executive remuneration structure the As a matter of course the Committee considers executive remuneration Committee also takes into account the pay and conditions of all employees.
We believe that the remuneration arrangements in place do not raise health and safety, environmental, As detailed in the 2011 Annual Report and following approval at the 2012 social or ethical issues, nor do they inadvertently motivate irresponsible AGM there were a number of changes implemented during the year to the behaviours.
remuneration structure of senior management.
It is believed that these changes will create increased share ownership with more stretching targets The Committee values feedback from shareholders and hopes to receive linked with higher potential incentive reward, and secure greater alignment your support at the AGM.
It is believed that these changes strengthen the remuneration policy.
Paul Drechsler The Committee believes there should continue to be a strong emphasis Remuneration Committee Chairman on long-term performance related pay and that it helps to discourage 21 February 2013 inappropriate risk taking which may be detrimental to the Companys shareholders.
The Committee is satisfied that this risk level is managed through i annual bonus plan ii significant compulsory share deferral in the annual bonus plan iii regular annual performance share awards iv application of share ownership guidelines: and v use of Total Shareholder Return as part of the performance conditions.
Filtrona has delivered another year of strong performance and growth against the majority of its KPIs.
Given this progress towards the Vision 2015 strategy and objectives, coupled with strong individual performances, the Committee has determined the 2012 Executive bonuses should be 100% of the maximum.
