Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials Corporate governance report ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63 The Boards role is to lead the Company by ensuring good management from the top downwards.
There is a formal schedule of matters Board composition Board evaluation reserved for the Board, which include: At the start of 2012 the Board comprised Following the intensive evaluation carried Setting values and standards that shall be 11 Directors.
In addition to the Chairman, out by the Chairman, Dr Johannes Sittard, used to guide the affairs of the Company: DrJohannes Sittard, who was not in 2011, the focus in 2012 13 has been on considered independent, there were seven creating stability and ensuring that the skills Setting the long-term objectives and non-executive Directors, six of whom were on the Board are being properly utilised.
commercial strategy of the Company: regarded as independent by the Board.
To this end, the Board commissioned Agreeing policies and processes to guide individual reviews of the Directors and On 3 February 2012, Dr Johannes the affairs of the Company: the Board Committees carried out by Sittard tendered his resignation as Spencer Stuart, during the summer of Responsibility for the overall management non-executive Director and Chairman 2012.
This exercise identified certain skills of the Group: of the Board.
The NaCG Committee gaps which were addressed with the recommended the appointment of Mr Agreeing any changes to the Companys appointments of Mr Burrows and Dr Khalil.
Mehmet Dalman as Chairman of the Board structure and capital: At the start of 2013, a Board evaluation was and he assumed that role with effect commissioned from Korn Ferry and it is Responsibility for financial reporting and from 3 February 2012, at the same time planned to be reported on next year.
controls: and relinquishing his role as SID.
Mr Dalman was considered by the Board to be Approving major capital projects.
Board independence independent on appointment as Chairman.
andbalance The ENRC Board takes its responsibility Under the chairmanship of Mr Dalman, and under the UK Corporate Governance Throughout the year, the Board has following the review carried out by Spencer Code the Code very seriously and maintained a balance of independent Stuart described below, the Board sought considers that, during the 2012 financial and non-independent Directors such that to increase the number of non-executive year, it complied with the Code with the at least half the Board has comprised Directors and accordingly appointed Mr exceptions, albeit temporarily, of Code independent Directors.
Richard Burrows and Dr Mohsen Khalil as Provision A.
4.1 regarding the appointment independent non-executive Directors with Mr Beketayev is not considered by the of a Senior Independent Director SID effect from 12 June 2012.
Their biographies Board to be independent as he is a and B.
2.1 on the composition of the are shown on page 61. representative of The State Property and Nominations and Corporate Governance Privatisation Committee of the Ministry of Committee NaCG Committee.
See Mr Terence Wilkinson became the SID on Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
further information on the role of the SID 25 May 2012. on page 65 and the NaCG Committee on Under a relationship agreement with At the year end, the Board comprised 12 page 67. the Company, each of the Founder Directors, of whom seven were considered Shareholders of the Company has a right to During 2012 ENRC addressed various by the Board to be independent.
appoint one Director to the Board, subject governance challenges including revising Subsequent to the year end, on 11 April to them using reasonable endeavours the composition of the Board and 2013, Mr Jim Cochrane stepped down to ensure that there is a majority of investigating certain of its operations.
independent non-executive Directors on Italso reviewed the separate roles of the the Board, provided his shareholder group CEO and the Chairman.
The Anti-bribery On 23 April 2013, Mr Dalman stepped controls at least 10% or more of the voting and Corruption Steering Committee the down from the Board and Mr Ammann rights exercisable at general meetings ABC Steering Committee, which had was appointed as Acting Chairman.
None of the Founder been set up in 2011, coordinated the Mr Ammann was considered by the Board Shareholders currently has a representative Groups activities to combat bribery, fraud to be independant on appointment as on the Board.
and other corruption risks and, as a result Acting Chairman.
of its activities, will develop into the Risk, The information on page 62 shows the The changes made to the Board are Compliance and Control Committee during composition of the Board and the Board summarised in the table on page 64.
These issues are dealt with in more balance at various times during the year.
Corporate governance report continued 64 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ENRCs Board comprises individuals Where a Director was unable to attend The Board receives presentations and from a wide range of backgrounds and a meeting, he was still supplied with the updates from external advisers and from nationalities.
In terms of gender balance, papers before the meeting and was able to senior managers below Board level: currently 10% of the Board is female.
This discuss the business with the Chairman or not only does this give the Directors the is something which has been borne in CEO.
opportunity to question employees about mind when considering candidates for the running of the business, it also gives The schedule on page 65 shows the appointment to the Board.
senior managers the chance to meet the Directors attendance at scheduled Board Directors and gain a better understanding and Committee meetings.
In 2012, these presentations Board processes The Company recognises that supplying included: Fourteen Board meetings and 11 Board the Board with good information is essential Capital and indebtedness: sub-committee meetings were held during to good corporate governance.
Eight of the Board meetings were packs are distributed up to two weeks Strategic options for the assets in Africa: regular scheduled meetings and six were before the meeting and at the very latest by and called to deal with specific issues.
the weekend before each scheduled Board Legal developments.
In addition, all Board members The ad hoc meetings were held to discuss have access to the packs electronically.
the following: Situational conflicts For ad hoc meetings, the practice differs Transaction to acquire assets from First depending on the nature ofthe business All situational conflicts are reviewed annually Quantum Minerals Limited FQM : to be discussed and the urgency of by the NaCG Committee which then the meeting.
The Company Secretary Composition of the NaCG Committee: makes a recommendation to the Board on is responsible for ensuring good whether such situational conflicts should Roles of the Chairman and CEO: and information flows between the Board continue to be approved.
Where a Director and its Committees and between senior Transaction to acquire the residual interest has a situational conflict he is not entitled management and the non-executive in Camrose Resources Ltd and convene tovote on the issue in question, although Directors.
he is entitled to engage in any debate on the issue.
Board changes since the beginning of 2012 Date Director Event 3 February 2012 Dr Johannes Sittard Resigned as Chairman and non-executive Director.
3 February 2012 Mr Mehmet Dalman Appointed Chairman, relinquished role as Senior Independent Director.
25 May 2012 Mr Terence Wilkinson Appointed Senior Independent Director.
12 June 2012 Mr Richard Burrows Appointed independent non-executive Director.
12 June 2012 Dr Mohsen Khalil Appointed independent non-executive Director.
10 August 2012 Mr Gerhard Ammann Stepped down as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
10 August 2012 Mr Terence Wilkinson Appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee.
10 August 2012 Mr Mehmet Dalman Stepped down as Chairman of the Investment Committee.
10 August 2012 Mr Gerhard Ammann Appointed Chairman of the Investment Committee.
23 November 2012 Mr Mehmet Dalman Role of Chairman was extended to include direct responsibility for corporate functions.
23 November 2012 Mr Mehmet Dalman Stepped down as a member and Chairman of the NaCG Committee.
He was re-appointed as a member of this Committee in March 2013.
23 November 2012 Mr Terence Wilkinson Appointed Chairman of the NaCG Committee.
11 April 2013 Mr Jim Cochrane Stepped down as an Executive Director.
23 April 2013 Stepped down as Chairman and Director.
Mr Mehmet Dalman 23 April 2013 Appointed Acting Chairman.
Mr Gerhard Ammann Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65 He retains overall responsibility for the Chairman and CEO Senior Independent Director strategic development of the Group and its The roles of the Chairman and CEO are Mr Dalman was appointed SID on capital reorganisation, which is focused on separate and their responsibilities are 28September 2011.
As SID, Mr Dalman improving the efficiency of its investment clearly defined in writing.
The Chairman was responsible for addressing any programme, as well as continuing to is responsible for leading the Board and shareholder concerns that could not or enhance the Companys corporate ensuring that it functions effectively.
This should not be channelled through the governance.
includes setting the agenda for Board Chairman or the Executive Directors.
The CEO is responsible for the operational meetings, ensuring that the Board receives Hewas also responsible for ensuring that management of the Group.
He is accurate, timely and clear information, the Chairmans performance evaluation responsible for optimising the useof the and facilitating communication with was carried out.
Mr Dalman relinquished Groups resources and for ensuring cost shareholders.
the position of SID on his appointment and operational efficiencies across the as Chairman of the Board.
The NaCG Dr Sittard was Chairman at the start of the Groups assets.
The Executive Committee, Committee oversaw the process for year under review.
Following his resignation the members of which are listed on pages nominating a new SID, which involved all for personal reasons on 3 February 2012, 60 and 61, meets regularly to advise the the non-executive Directors on the Board.
Mr Dalman was appointed Chairman of the CEO.
The operational management teams As a result of this process, Mr Wilkinson Board.
Mr Dalman was considered by the report directly to the CEO, who is also was appointed as SID on 25 May 2012.
Board to be independent on appointment.
responsible for marketing, logistics and During the period between 3 February exploration.
The Board reviewed the roles of the 2012 and 25 May 2012 there was no SID.
Chairman and CEO during the year.
This During 2012, the non-executive Directors This was non-compliant with the Code, review included a review of the role of the met without management present on four but enabled the Directors to consider Chairman led by the SID.
The Board agreed occasions and the SID led the evaluation fully the requirements of the role and that the Chairman should take responsibility of the performance of the Chairman during identify the most appropriate independent for corporate functions including finance, October November 2012, as part of the non-executive Director for the job.
During risk, human resources, legal & compliance, review of the roles of Chairman and CEO.
this period, the remaining independent and investor relations.
Directors were available to liaise as required Subsequent to the year end on 23 April with institutional shareholders.
2013, Mr Dalman stepped down from the Board and Mr Ammann was appointed Acting Chairman.
Directors attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings during 2012 Nomination and Health, Safety, Corporate Environment and Audit Remuneration Governance Community Investment 9 Independent Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Prof Dr Dieter Ameling Yes 12 14 3 3 4 5 Mr Gerhard Ammann Yes 12 14 5 5 5 5 2 2 2 2 Mr Marat Beketayev No 7 14 4 9 2 3 3 7 Mr Richard Burrows Yes 7 9 2 2 3 3 2 2 Mr Jim Cochrane No 14 14 2 2 Mr Mehmet Dalman No 14 14 6 6 8 8 5 5 Sir Paul Judge Yes 12 14 7 7 9 9 5 5 4 Dr Mohsen Khalil Yes 6 9 4 4 1 2 Dr Johannes Sittard No 2 2 1 1 1 1 5 Mr Roderick Thomson Yes 12 14 7 7 8 9 8 9 2 2 6 Mr Felix Vulis No 13 14 3 4 3 3 7 Mr Terence Wilkinson Yes 13 14 7 7 9 9 4 4 8 Dr Zaure Zaurbekova No 12 14 2 2 4 7 1 Mr Gerhard Ammann was appointed to the HSEC Committee on 10 August 2012.
2 Mr Richard Burrows was appointed to the Audit, HSEC and Remuneration Committees on 10 August 2012.
3 Mr Jim Cochrane was appointed to the Investment Committee on 10 August 2012.
4 Dr Mohsen Khalil was appointed to the Investment and NaCG Committees on 10 August 2012.
5 Mr Roderick Thomson was appointed to the Investment Committee on 10 August 2012.
6 Mr Felix Vulis was appointed to the NaCG Committee on 10 August 2012.
7 Mr Terence Wilkinson was appointed Chairman of the NaCG Committee on 23 November 2012.
8 Dr Zaure Zaurbekova was appointed to the HSEC Committee on 10 August 2012.
Corporate governance report continued 66 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Various updates on corporate Company Secretary Training and development governance, data security and risk.
The appointment and removal of the In conjunction with the Chairman, the Company Secretary is a matter reserved Company Secretary is responsible for Board committees forthe Board.
ensuring that the Board and Committee The Board has established five principal members receive appropriate training and Board Committees: Audit Committee, development.
During 2012 this included: Advice to the Board Remuneration Committee, NaCG Providing a Board induction for Messrs All members of the Board are entitled Committee, Investment Committee and Burrows and Khalil: to take legal advice at the Companys the Health, Safety, Environment and expense.
All the Directors have access Community Committee the HSEC An overview of logistical challenges in to the Company Secretary for support Committee.
The Company Secretary is transporting materials to China: and advice.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to each of these Committees.
A M&A activity workshop led by the responsible for advising the Board on The terms of reference of each of CEO Africa: all corporate governance issues and for these Committees are available on the ensuring that all applicable legislation and Companys website.
HR workshop led by the Group HR Board procedures are followed.
Director: and Board and Committee appointments Date of appointment Director Committee 3 February 2012 Mr Mehmet Dalman Chairman 25 May 2012 Mr Terence Wilkinson Senior Independent Director 12 June 2012 Mr Richard Burrows Independent non-executive Director 12 June 2012 Dr Mohsen Khalil Independent non-executive Director 10 August 2012 Mr Gerhard Ammann Chairman of Investment Committee 10 August 2012 Mr Terence Wilkinson Chairman of Audit Committee 10 August 2012 Mr Richard Burrows Audit Committee 10 August 2012 Mr Gerhard Ammann HSEC Committee 10 August 2012 Mr Richard Burrows HSEC Committee 10 August 2012 Dr Zaure Zaurbekova HSEC Committee 10 August 2012 Mr Jim Cochrane Investment Committee 10 August 2012 Dr Mohsen Khalil Investment Committee 10 August 2012 Mr Roderick Thomson Investment Committee 10 August 2012 Dr Mohsen Khalil NaCG Committee 10 August 2012 Mr Felix Vulis NaCG Committee 10 August 2012 Mr Richard Burrows Remuneration Committee 23 November 2012 Mr Terence Wilkinson Chairman of NaCG Committee 15 March 2013 Mr Mehmet Dalman NaCG Committee Committee composition as at 31 December 2012 NaCG Remuneration Investment 1 Audit Committee Committee Committee HSEC Committee Committee Committee Chairman Mr Terence Wilkinson Mr Terence Wilkinson Sir Paul Judge Mr Felix Vulis Mr Gerhard Ammann Mr Richard Burrows Mr Marat Beketayev Mr Richard Burrows Prof Dr Dieter Ameling Prof Dr Dieter Ameling Sir Paul Judge Dr Mohsen Khalil Mr Roderick Thomson Mr Gerhard Ammann Mr Marat Beketayev 2 Mr Roderick Thomson Mr Roderick Thomson Mr Terence Wilkinson Mr Marat Beketayev Mr Jim Cochrane Mr Felix Vulis Mr Richard Burrows Dr Mohsen Khalil Dr Zaure Zaurbekova Mr Roderick Thomson Dr Zaure Zaurbekova 1 Subsequent to the year end, on 15 March 2013, Mr Mehmet Dalman was appointed to the NaCG Committee.
He stepped down from the Board and from this Committee on 23 April 2013.
2 Subsequent to the year end, Mr Jim Cochrane stepped down from the Board and from this Committee.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 67 stepped down from the Committee and the position of Chairman and agreed to Nomination and Corporate Mr Wilkinson was appointed as Chairman recommend to the Board the appointment Governance Committee of the Committee.
In March 2013, the of Mr Dalman in this role.
Dr Sittard did not Board further considered the composition participate in this discussion.
of the NaCG Committee and agreed that Following the search by external MrDalman should serve on the Committee.
consultants, the NaCG Committee Subsequent to the year end, Mr Dalman reviewed candidates for appointment to the stepped down from the Board and from Board.
This process took into consideration theCommittee.
the benefits of diversity, including gender The Company has complied with the Code diversity, when identifying suitable recommendations regarding membership candidates for interview.
The Committee Mr Terence Wilkinson of the NaCG Committee throughout the considered that Mr Burrows had Committee Chairman year except that from 10 August 2012 there considerable public company, acquisitions was a balance of independent Directors and emerging markets experience and rather than a majority of independent Dr Khalil had a background in emerging non-executive Directors on the Committee.
markets, project finance and business procedures and therefore it recommended The Committee held five The Committee was appropriately their appointments to the Board.
scheduled and four ad hoc constituted and sufficiently large to carry out its work without becoming unwieldy.
The NaCG Committee reviewed the meetings in 2012. composition of the Board Committees Composition during 2012 Terms of reference and recommended during the year the The Committee reviewed its terms of Committee Meetings appointments shown in the table on tenure attended reference to bring them into line with best page66, all of which were approved by Chairman practice and to reflect the extension of the theBoard.
Committees remit to include oversight of Mr Mehmet To 23 November 8 8 The NaCG Committee also recommended Dalman corporate governance and compliance with the appointment of Mr Wilkinson as SID.
the Code and recommended the changes Mr Terence Member from 4 4 Wilkinson 10 August The Company has recently introduced a to the Board.
Chairman from Global Succession Planning Policy and 23 November Under its terms of reference, the NaCG the NaCG Committee will focus on Board Members Committee is required to meet at least Succession Planning during 2013. twice a year to consider, among other Mr Gerhard To 10 August 5 5 Situational conflicts Ammann issues: The Committee reviewed all existing Mr Marat Throughout 2012 4 9 The size, structure and composition Beketayev conflicting situations and recommended of the Board, taking into account the that the Board reconfirm its approval of Sir Paul Judge To 10 August 5 5 skills, knowledge and experience of these.
It also reviewed all new conflicting Dr Mohsen Khalil From 10 August 4 4 the Directors and to recommend to the situations and recommended their approval Board any new candidates: Mr Roderick Throughout 2012 8 9 to the Board.
Thomson Whether non-executive Directors have Annual re-election of Directors Dr J Sittard To 3 February 1 1 sufficient time to devote to the proper In accordance with the Code, all Directors Mr Felix Vulis From 10 August 3 4 performance of their duties: stand for re-election at each Annual Making recommendations in relation Mr Dalman chaired the NaCG Committee General Meeting AGM subject to the to the retirement and re-election of during 2012 until 23 November 2012.
NaCG Committee recommending to the Directors at the Companys AGM: Thereafter, the Board appointed Board the continuation in office of each MrWilkinson who had been appointed Director.
In making its recommendations, Succession planning: and to the Committee on 10 August 2012 the Committee took into consideration the Any departures from the Code, asChairman of this Committee.
Directors effectiveness and commitment to ensuring explanations are given to the role.
The other Committee members up to shareholders as to how actual practices 10August 2012 were Mr Gerhard Ammann, The Committee recommended candidates are consistent with good corporate Sir Paul Judge, Mr Marat Beketayev to the Board for appointment at the AGM governance.
Following and the Board confirmed the following: a review of committee composition in MrBurrows and Dr Khalil will offer Activities in 2012 August 2012, the members were Messrs themselves for election and Messrs The Committee held five scheduled Mehmet Dalman, Marat Beketayev, Ammann, Beketayev, Thomson, Vulis meetings and four ad hoc meetings in 2012.
Mohsen Khalil, Roderick Thomson, Felix and Wilkinson and Dr Zaurbekova will On 3 February 2012, Dr Sittard tendered Vulis and Terence Wilkinson.
Following the offer themselves for re-election.
Professor his resignation from the Board for personal extension of the role of the Chairman of DrAmeling and Sir Paul Judge will not reasons.
The NaCG Committee reviewed the Board in November 2012, Mr Dalman stand for re-appointment at the 2013 AGM.
Corporate governance report continued 68 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Mr Wilkinson is considered by the Board Activities in 2012 to have had recent and relevant financial The Audit Committee held five scheduled experience given his roles at Lonmin plc, meetings and two ad hoc meetings in 2012.
Audit Committee Ridge Mining plc and Century Aluminium Co. During the year the following items were The Company complied throughout the reviewed: year with the Code recommendations Accounting policies, estimates and regarding membership of the Audit judgements including methodology Committee.
and results of the Groups annual impairment review: Terms of reference Mr Terence Wilkinson Confirmation of the ability of the Group Committee Chairman Under its terms of reference, the tocontinue as a going concern: Committee is required to meet at least four times a year to consider, among The Preliminary and Half Year Results other issues: announcements, financial statements andAnnual Report and Accounts: The integrity of the Companys The Audit Committee financial reporting: meetings are aligned with Internal audit reports: the corporate reporting The internal controls and risk Internal investigations into allegations cycleto enable the management systems: of malpractice including, amongst Committee to discharge others, those raised through the The effectiveness of the internal audit its duties effectively.
whistleblowing helpline: function: and Internal controls and risk The relationship with the external management reports: auditors.
Composition during 2012 Compliance reports: and Committee Meetings The Audit Committee meetings are aligned tenure attended with the corporate reporting cycle to All external audit reports.
Chairman enable the Committee to discharge its The Committee also received regular Mr Gerhard To 10 August 5 5 duties effectively.
In particular the Audit Ammann updates on the progress of Programme Committee schedules its meetings to Arrow, an ongoing programme to improve Mr Terence Throughout 2012 7 7 enable it to review and comment on key Wilkinson the efficiency of the accounting reporting Chairman from financial announcements before making 10 August systems.
recommendations to the Board for their Members release.
External audit Mr Richard From 10 August 2 2 The Chairman of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee reviews the overall Burrows reports verbally to the Board on the performance of the auditors annually Sir Paul Judge Throughout 2012 7 7 actions of the Committee and updates the and is responsible for making formal Mr Roderick Throughout 2012 7 7 Board on any issues which require further recommendations each year to the Thomson investigation, action or improvement.
Board on the continuation of the external auditors in office.
The Audit Committee is Whilst only members of the Committee are Mr Gerhard Ammann chaired the Audit responsible to the Board for ensuring that entitled to attend meetings, the Chairman Committee until 10 August 2012, thereafter the external auditors remain independent invites the CFO, the CEO, the General the Chairman was Mr Terence Wilkinson.
of the Company in all material respects Counsel, and the Chairman of the Board The Audit Committee members until and that they have adequate resources to attend.
In addition, he invites the Head 10 August 2012 were Sir Paul Judge, available to them to enable the delivery of of Internal Audit to every meeting and he Mr Roderick Thomson and Mr Terence an objective audit to the shareholders.
also invites the Group Head of Risk and Wilkinson, all of whom were regarded by the Head of Compliance to attend where the Board as independent non-executive The provision of external audit services necessary to update the Committee.
The Directors and each of whom has extensive was put out to tender towards the end external auditors are also invited to each business experience.
of 2011 and as a result of this process meeting of the Audit Committee and the Audit Committee recommended Following the review of the Committees they meet separately with the Committee to the Board of Directors that PwC be composition in August 2012, the Audit members, without management being reappointed as auditors.
Subsequently, Committees members are Mr Terence present, at least once a year.
the Audit Committee agreed with PwC the Wilkinson, Sir Paul Judge, Mr Roderick 2012 audit plan and fee.
As the external Thomson and Mr Richard Burrows.
auditors are required to rotate the Group audit partner every five years, the lead partner changed during 2012.
The Audit Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 69 Committee is satisfied that this is sufficient Note 35 to the Consolidated financial Whistleblowing to preserve PwCs independence.
statements shows the value of the audit The Audit Committee reviews the and non-audit work carried out by PwC In order to protect the external auditors arrangements by which employees can during the year.
independence, the Audit Committee also raise with local management any concerns reviews the level and nature of any nonInternal audit they may have about workplace fraud or audit work to be performed during the year mismanagement, on a confidential basis.
The Head of Internal Audit is invited to and considers whether it is appropriate for attend each Audit Committee meeting Whistleblowing incidents are taken this work to be carried out by the external where he provides assurance, independent very seriously by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee maintains of the assurance provided by the CFO, that Complaints are investigated in the first a policy regarding acceptable non-audit internal control activities, which have been instance and a decision taken about further work, which incorporates authority levels subject to audit by his team, are operating steps.
Feedback is provided to the person forapproving such work.
The policy defines the types of services: The Group has an Internal Audit Charter Towards the end of 2011, a new Which are prohibited to be performed by which states that the Head of Internal Audit Whistleblowing and Investigation Policy auditors as they would result in auditors is accountable to the Audit Committee and was approved by the Board.
In order to independence becoming impaired: is to provide ENRC Group management maintain the independence and objectivity with the following: of the investigative process, this policy Which are pre-approved to be performed made Internal Audit responsible for running by auditors up to a pre-determined An independent, objective, positive an Internal Investigation function.
The new monetary threshold, over which such assurance on effectiveness of internal function, established in 2012, is responsible services need to be approved by the controls: and for leading and coordinating investigations Audit Committee Chairman: and A value-adding consulting service in response to any allegations of wrongdoing.
Which require Audit Committee Chairman designed to improve the effectiveness All investigations are overseen by the approval at all times due to their potential and efficiency of the Groups operations General Counsel, who updates the Audit to impair auditors independence if proper and to safeguard the assets and the Committee on a regular basis.
safeguards are not put in place.
The policy also prohibits: During 2012, Internal Audit carried out planned reviews consisting of the following Hiring senior auditors staff to senior dedicated assurance programmes: positions in accounting or financial reporting roles: General business process assurance programme including reviews of, amongst Application of contingent fees or others, procurement, sales management, commission: and sponsorship and donations, treasury, Direct or material indirect business human resources management and relationships between the auditor and transportation costs: the Group.
Capital expenditures CAPEX assurance The Committee receives updates from the programme included reviews of major Audit Committee Chairman on non-audit CAPEX projects across the Group: engagements approved by him for the Health and safety assurance programme period, and also receives reports from the including reviews of health and safety auditors on all new non-audit work.
The behavioural standards implementation in Committee regularly reviews non-audit fees Kazakhstan and the CIS region: charged by PwC and monitors the level and overall volume and nature of the services in IT assurance programme, which is being order to identify the risk of overreliance by developed and run with assistance from auditors on non-audit work.
KPMG, included reviews of key stages of Programme Arrow: and In 2012 the following non-audit engagements were approved for PwC: Acquisition and disposal review provision of advice on corporate finance programme including disposals and transactions entered into or proposed to be post-acquisition reviews.
entered into: assurance over the Groups sustainability reporting: forensic support as part of internal investigative work: other services including tax advice and assurance related works.
Corporate governance report continued 70 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Sir Paul Judge is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Health, Safety, Environment Remuneration Committee.
The other and Community Committee members during the year were Mr Dalman until 10 August 2012, Mr Thomson, MrWilkinson and Mr Burrows from 10August 2012.
Throughout the year, all members of the Committee were nonexecutive Directors and the Company has complied with the Code recommendations regarding membership of the Remuneration Sir Paul Judge Committee throughout the year.
Whilst Committee Chairman only the members of the Committee are Mr Felix J Vulis entitled to attend its meetings, the CEO is Committee Chairman also invited by the Committee Chairman to attend, but he does not attend on matters relating to his own remuneration.
During 2012, the Remuneration Committee During the year the HSEC Terms of reference met nine times.
Committee reviewed all Under its terms of reference the fatalities and recommended Committee is required to meet at health and safety criteria for Composition during 2012 least twice a year and, amongst other Senior Executives bonuses.
issues, it determines and recommends Committee Meetings tenure attended to the Board the broad policy for the Chairman remuneration of Executive Directors and Composition during 2012 members of the senior management Sir Paul Judge Throughout 2012 9 9 Committee Meetings team.
tenure attended Members Chairman The remuneration of the non-executive Mr Richard From 10 August 3 3 Burrows Directors is a matter reserved for the Mr Felix J Vulis Throughout 2012 3 3 Board.
The non-executive Directors do Mr Mehmet To 10 August 6 6 Members Dalman not review their own remuneration.
Professor Throughout 2012 3 3 Mr Roderick Throughout 2012 8 9 Dr Dieter Ameling Thomson Activities in 2012 Mr Gerhard From 10 August 2 2 During 2012 the Remuneration Committee Mr Terence Throughout 2012 9 9 Ammann Wilkinson met nine times, seven meetings were Mr Marat Throughout 2012 2 3 scheduled meetings and two were ad hoc Beketayev meetings.
Mr Richard From 10 August 2 2 Burrows Further details are included in the Directors Mr Victor Hanna To 10 August 0 1 remuneration report, which is set out on pages 76 to 85.
Mr Patrice LHuillier To 10 August 0 1 Dr Johannes To 3 February 1 1 A resolution to approve the Directors Sittard remuneration report will be proposed at Dr Zaure From 10 August 2 2 the forthcoming AGM.
Zaurbekova Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 71 Mr Vulis chairs the HSEC Committee.
Terms of reference Investment Committee Atthe start of the year the other members Under the Investment Committees terms were Professor Dr Ameling, Mr Beketayev, of reference, the Committee is required Mr Hanna, Mr LHuillier and Dr Sittard.
to meet at least twice a year and, among DrSittard stood down from the Committee other things, it: on his resignation from the Board on Reviews and discusses with 3February 2012.
Following the review of management the necessary due committees by the Board in August 2012, diligence required on prospective the HSEC Committee comprised the mergers and acquisitions projects: following members from 10 August 2012 Mr Gerhard Ammann onwards: Professor Dr Dieter Ameling, Receives detailed analyses of Committee Chairman MrGerhard Ammann, Mr Marat Beketayev, prospective mergers and acquisitions Mr Richard Burrows, Mr Felix Vulis and projects: and DrZaure Zaurbekova.
Oversees the structuring and implementation of mergers and The Committee Terms of reference acquisitions projects.
recommended several Under its terms of reference, the acquisitions to the Board Committee is required to meet at least Activities in 2012 during the year.
twice a year and, among other things, it The Investment Committee met seven considers: times on an ad hoc basis during 2012 and Health, safety, environment and recommended to the Board the acquisition Composition during 2012 community risks: of certain assets in the Democratic Committee Meetings Republic of the Congo from FQM and tenure attended The Groups compliance with the settlement of related legal matters, applicable legal and regulatory Chairman the acquisition of the Frontier licence, the requirements associated with health, Mr Mehmet To 10 August 5 5 acquisition of the outstanding 49.5% of safety, environment and community Dalman Camrose Resources Ltd thus giving the matters: and Mr Gerhard From 10 August 2 2 Group full control of its African assets.
Ammann The Groups performance in relation In addition, the case for separating the Members to health, safety, environment and Groups international assets was reviewed.
Professor Throughout 2012 4 5 community impact and monitoring Dr Dieter Ameling sustainable development initiatives.
Mr Marat Throughout 2012 3 7 Beketayev Activities in 2012 Mr Jim Cochrane From 10 August 2 2 The HSEC Committee met three times in 2012.
The HSEC Committee was Dr Mohsen Khalil From 10 August 1 2 responsible for the inclusion of a report Mr Roderick From 10 August 2 2 in the Annual Report and Accounts and it Thomson oversaw the development of a standalone Dr Zaure Throughout 2012 4 7 Sustainable Development Report for 2011, Zaurbekova which was published in May 2012.
From the start of the year, the Investment During the year it reviewed all fatalities Committee comprised Mr Mehmet Dalman, and recommended health and safety in the chair, and Professor Dr Ameling, criteria for Senior Executives bonuses Mr Beketayev and Dr Zaure Zaurbekova.
It also Following the review of committee received presentations on underground composition in August 2012, the Investment mining safety and discussed the financial Committee comprised Mr Ammann implication of carbon pricing.
Chairman, Mr Beketayev, Mr Cochrane, Further details on HSEC are set out in DrKhalil, Mr Thomson and Dr Zaurbekova the sustainable development review on from 10 August 2012.
Mr Cochrane stood pages 17 to 20 and in the Sustainable down from the Committee on 11 April 2013.
Development Report for 2012, to be published shortly.
Corporate governance report continued 72 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The main features of the Groups system of Risk management system evolution Risk management and risk management include: internal control The Group continues to develop its risk Group statements on strategic direction: management and internal control systems Risk and the Board of Directors and this includes: Identifying business objectives and The Board is ultimately responsible for business principles: A clear risk strategy, with annual maintaining a sound risk management tactical enhancement initiatives to and internal control system to ensure A clear risk strategy: further develop the Groups approach compliance with the requirements of the A clear risk policy: to risk management, internal control UK Corporate Governance Code and the and insurance: Turnbull Guidance.
The Groups system The development of a Board risk appetite of risk management and internal control is statement that will be rolled out across High calibre risk and internal control designed to identify, manage and mitigate the business in 2013: specialists at a Group, regional and the risk of failure to achieve business business entity level: A Company risk management manual: objectives.
The system provides reasonable Externally commissioning a number of but not absolute assurance against material Annual review of key business risks: specialist technical risk identification and misstatement or loss.
A continuing process for identification action planning assignments including There are ongoing processes in place and evaluation of principal risks to the operational risk surveys, anti-bribery and for identifying, assessing, managing, achievement of business objectives: corruption risk assessment: monitoring and reporting on the significant An annual review of internal control: Group-wide business continuity risks faced by the Group.
These processes enhancement planning project: were in place for the year under review up Management processes to mitigate to, and including, the date of the approval of significant risks to an acceptable level: Further evolution of our insurance the Annual Report and Accounts.
strategy, including specialist insurance Ongoing monitoring of significant risks related to our major projects: Executive Committee ExCom and internal and external environmental factors that may change the Groups risk Continued development of in-country risk The ExCom has specific responsibility for profile: and and internal control capabilities: and the Groups system of risk management.
It reviews the Groups significant risks A review by the Group of both the type Further refinements to the ExCom risk and subsequently reports to the Audit and amount of external insurance that review process.
Committee on material changes and the the Group buys, bearing in mind the Further improvements planned for 2013 associated mitigating actions.
Members of availability of such cover, its cost and include: the ExCom are listed on pages 60 and 61. the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
Enhanced Audit Committee visibility of Enterprise-wide risk management key risk action plans: In addition to the annual review of principal The ExCom considers the careful and risks, there is a process of regular reporting A comprehensive Group-wide review of appropriate management of risk as an to the Board through the Audit Committee the internal control system: important management role.
Managing on the status of the risk management business risk to deliver opportunities is a Further enhancements to our process process.
key element of all the Groups business level internal controls: and activities.
Additional improvements to the mining The significant business risks are and operational risk assessment understood and documented.
business context determines in each A top-down risk management approach situation the level of acceptable risk and is in place focusing on the key risks to the controls.
execution of the Groups business strategy, which complements our regional and entity bottom-up risk aggregation methodology.
To further enhance the Groups approach to risk management at a business unit level, the principles of the international standard for risk management ISO 31000 are adopted where appropriate and further training and embedding on this will take place in 2013.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 73 Internal control Group Tax manages risks associated with Review of effectiveness tax compliance, reporting, planning and The Turnbull Guidance sets out best In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance transfer pricing.
They monitor tax risks and practice on internal control for UK listed a review of the effectiveness of the risk implement strategies and procedures to companies to assist them in assessing management system and internal control control these risks.
the application of the Code principles and is undertaken annually by the Audit compliance with the underlying provisions Assurance on compliance with systems of Committee on behalf of the Board.
with regard to internal control.
internal control and on their effectiveness is The Board and the Audit Committee obtained through: The Groups systems of internal have reviewed the effectiveness of the control are designed and operated to Regular management reviews: risk management and internal control support theidentification, evaluation system, including financial, operational Annual testing of key internal controls: and management of risks affecting the andcompliance controls and risk Group, including in relation to the financial Internal audit reviews: and management, in accordance with the reporting process and the preparation of Turnbull Guidance to the date of approval of Testing of certain aspects of the internal consolidated accounts, and the business this Annual Report and Accounts.
financial control systems by the external environment in which the Group operates.
auditors during the course of their If significant internal control failings The systems of internal control are subject statutory examinations with regular are identified, the Board confirms that to continuous review as circumstances reports to the Audit Committee by the necessary actions will be taken to address change and new risks emerge.
them and these will include: Features of the systems of internal control The Audit Committee considers the results Reports to the Audit Committee and include: of the reviews to confirm that controls are theBoard: and The risk management system described functioning.
Any material breakdowns and If necessary, further investigations in the preceding section: remedial actions are reported to the Board.
implemented by the Audit Committee.
Documented policies and procedures Risk management and internal Remedial action plans will be monitored by within the Groups businesses: control systems in relation to financial the Audit Committee, with regular updates reporting An annual review of key internal controls: on progress to the Board.
The main features of the Groups systems Minimising operating risk by using of risk management and internal control in appropriate infrastructure, controls, relation to financial reporting, other than the systems and people throughout general principles referred to above, are: the businesses: Control environment communication Business entity level control ofkey principles and policies, and reports self-assessments: and on compliance: Internal control letter of representation Risk management identification of key process.
financial risks and appropriate responses: The key policies employed in managing Control activities management utilises operating risk involve the segregation a range of preventative and detective of duties, transaction authorisation, controls to minimise errors: and monitoring, financial, managerial and comprehensive reporting and analysis Monitoring ongoing monitoring against approved standards and budgets.
Group Treasury manages exposure to The systems of risk management and counterparty risk, liquidity risk and currency internal control are designed to manage, transaction risks.
They coordinate the rather than eliminate, the risk of failure activities of Group companies in this to achieve business objectives and can area.
The treasury policies, risk limits provide reasonable, but not absolute, and monitoring procedures are reviewed assurance against material misstatement regularly by the Audit Committee on behalf or loss.
In reviewing these, the Board has of the Board.
taken into account the results of all the work carried out by internal and external auditors.
Corporate governance report continued 74 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Towards the end of 2012 the Group with a Risk, Compliance and Control Compliance Compliance Department started a further Committee the RCC Committee which The Group Compliance Department review and update of the Groups Code would have a wider remit for reviewing, and continues to work to create a framework of Conduct to make it more accessible to ensuring control over risks, including the forthe prevention of: employees.
The revised version, together risks of bribery and corruption which the with a set of explanatory notes, was made Group faces.
In February 2013 the ABC Bribery and corruption: available in multiple languages in the first Steering Committee met again pending the Assisting or facilitating money laundering: quarter of 2013 on the ENRC website establishment of theRCC Committee.
and introduced at a conference for senior Anti-competitive behaviour: and The Serious Fraud Office managers in February 2013.
These senior theSFO process Breaches of international managers will cascade the new Code of sanctions regimes.
ENRC has entered into a reporting process with the SFO following a number of public The Group Compliance Department, During 2012, ENRC completed its bribery allegations made in the summer of 2011 in works with the Compliance Departments and corruption risk review of the business relation to the acquisition of a business in in the various regions in which the Group in conjunction with external legal and other the DRC, previously owned by FQM.
The operates and via the regional offices, with advisors.
The output of the review will SFO invited the Company to a meeting, compliance officers at business level to inform the Groups compliance plans for following which it was agreed that the work towards creating a framework of 2013 and beyond as the Group seeks to Company would undertake investigations policies, procedures and processes to help use the information to implement and or into certain matters including in respect the Group as a whole minimise the risks update relevant policies, procedures and of allegations around its operations and posed by each of the above factors.
assets in, and transactions involving, The Group Compliance Department The Group continued in 2012 to ask new Kazakhstan and Africa in particular, the drafted, agreed and rolled out an updated employees in identified at risk positions DRC.
Regarding Kazakhstan, external procedure for approval of counterparties for example those working in finance, counsel representing ENRC has provided throughout the Group.
The standard procurement and sales and marketing to a report to the SFO.
In respect of Africa, procedure includes a risk-based approach undertake two online training modules.
the Company continues to engage with to vetting counterparties and the people One module relates to the Groups Code theSFO.
who ultimately own such counterparties.
of Conduct, the other relates to anti-bribery The Board of ENRC takes corporate Checks are undertaken to minimise the and anti-corruption awareness.
governance and compliance very seriously risks of the Group entering into business Anti-bribery and Corruption ABC and is committed to ensuring that ENRC relationships with people and entities who Steering Committee complies with laws relevant to its business could pose issues relating to potential wherever it operates.
violations of laws including sanctions, The Group established the ABC Steering money laundering, bribery and corruption, Committee in 2011.
This Committee Review of related party transactions terrorist financing, organised crime or who continued to meet during 2012, chaired On 25 April 2012, the Company was could pose a reputational risk for the Group.
In addition to the contacted by the Financial Services The Group believes that such measures are General Counsel, the CFO, Group Head Authority which is now known as the adequate to minimise the risks associated of Risk, Head of Compliance, Head of Financial Conduct Authority FCA in with these areas.
Internal Audit and the Head of Strategic its capacity as the UK Listing Authority Planning and Investment Analysis are also In conjunction with the roll out of the UKLA.
The letter stated that the UKLA members.
The Committee invites other new procedure, the Group Compliance was conducting a preliminary review parties to report and participate in the Department conducted face-to-face of the Companys compliance with the meetings on a regular basis, including other training and awareness sessions with over Listing Rules on a Group-wide basis and, employees whose work is exposed to anti- 150 employees identified as needing to in particular on the application of Listing bribery and corruption issues and external be aware and up-to-date on these issues Rules 10 and 11 to certain transactions.
advisors who are able to provide valuable based on their roles and responsibilities.
The Company has been assisting the input.
The ABC Steering Committee UKLA with these enquiries.
Recognising The updated counterparty procedures will coordinates the Groups approaches the complexity of its related party issues, continue to be monitored and reviewed to bribery and corruption issues across in May 2012, the Company engaged a and awareness and training on these core departments to ensure that the work major advisory risk management firm to procedures will be ongoing for employees carried out to prevent and detect corruption assist it in identifying any enhancements identified as undertaking roles where is consistent and effective.
Towards the that could be made to its related party awareness and compliance of the issues end of 2012, it was agreed that the ABC systems and procedures.
In responding and procedures is paramount.
Steering Committee would be replaced Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 75 to UKLA requests the Company identified Information on IR activity and analysts and Interaction with shareholders certain issues.
Accordingly, the Company brokers reports are regularly circulated to During 2012 the Group met with a large instructed an advisory risk management the Board.
The Chairman, along with nonnumber of shareholders and prospective firm via external legal counsel to carry executive Directors if appropriate, annually investors, mainly based in the United out an immediate additional review of conducts a number of investor meetings Kingdom, continental Europe and the certain transactions from a Listing Rule 11 focused on corporate governance.
United States of America, as part of perspective, with the aim that any further The sixth AGM is due to be held on a regular schedule of meetings and relevant matters would be brought to the Wednesday, 5 June 2013 and the Board roadshows.
The Group has an active and UKLAs attention.
welcomes the opportunity to answer extensive Investor Relations programme The UKLA has considered the Companys questions put to it by shareholders of the IR programme although its free float various responses and replied instructing theCompany.
Management the Company to appoint a sponsor to carry also met with the Founder Shareholders out a diagnostic review of Listing Rules Share capital and Kazakhmys PLC, who together hold 10 and 11 analyses of certain transactions, around 70% of the Companys shares.
The The Companys share capital is described including of the original purchase of 50.5 Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, on page 88. per cent of Camrose Resources Limited which has Board representation, is including all ancillary agreements and the frequently and closely involved with the Going concern transaction entered into with FQM.
Further Groups deliberations and the executive issues may still arise beyond those which management.
The Groups business activities, together have currently been notified to the UKLA.
with those factors likely to affect future As part of its IR programme, the Group performance, are set out in the Business The Company has also received and aims to provide a high level of transparency Review as described on page 86. responded to a separate enquiry from and communication to investors and the UKLA relating to the application of In assessing the Groups going concern analysts on a timely basis, through Listing Rules 10 and 11 to the sale of Zhol status the Directors have taken into account announcements, meetings and seminars.
Zhondeushi LLP to Prime Residential the factors set out in the Business Review, The Group seeks to develop a regular County LLP which completed on 16 May including the financial position of the Group dialogue with investors and analysts and to 2012. and in particular its balances of cash, respond to their challenges and understand cash equivalents and liquid investments, their sentiments and concerns.
The Group The UKLA has not presently referred the borrowing facilities in place and their has a comprehensive IR section on its these matters to an enforcement team terms, medium-term cash flow and liquidity website, which has up-to-date information but the conclusions of the sponsor projections, the current commodity prices available to all shareholders and investors.
review which they have requested, or the and market expectations in the medium Shareholders have the opportunity UKLAs independent conclusions on the term, the Groups expected operating to attend and raise questions at the Companys wider compliance with the cost profile and its capital expenditure and Companys AGM.
Listing Rules, may result in enforcement financing plans.
action against the Company by the UKLA The Groupaspiresto havean IR or an agreed settlement in respect of programme that is ranked highly amongst After making enquiries, the Directors have the issues identified either of which may its peers for its accessibility, responsiveness reasonable expectations that the Group include a combination of a public censure, and disclosure.
The CEO and CFO has adequate resources to continue in a private warning, the payment of a fine between them aim to meet all major operational existence for the foreseeable and or formal or informal agreements to shareholders at least twice a year and, future.
For this reason, they continue to improve systems and processes.
along with other senior management, to adopt the going concern basis in preparing meet with a wide range of shareholders the financial statements.
Further issues may still arise beyond those and prospective investors during the year.
which are currently within the scope of the In 2012 these discussions focused on the UKLAs enquiries.
financial and operational results and development of the Groups businesses and also sought to understand any concerns held by investors.
The Group frequently meets with sell-side analysts to raise the Groups profile and to build the research coverage.
