Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Corporate Governance The Financial Reporting Councils 2010 UK There are clear divisions of responsibility within Committees Corporate Governance Code the Code is the board such that no one individual has Executive committee part of the Listing Rules the Rules of the unfettered powers of decision.
The board, The executive committee meets each month Financial Services Authority.
The paragraphs although larger than average, does not consider to discuss strategy, results and forecasts, risks, below and in the Directors Remuneration Report itself to be unwieldy and believes it is beneficial possible acquisitions and divestitures, costs, on pages 41 to 52 set out how the company has to have representatives from key areas of staff numbers, recruitment and training and applied the principles laid down by the Code.
the business at board meetings.
There is a other management issues.
It also discusses The company continues substantially to comply procedure for all directors in the furtherance of corporate and social responsibility including the with the Code, save for the exceptions disclosed their duties to take independent professional groups various charity initiatives.
It is chaired by in the Directors Compliance Statement on advice, at the companys expense.
They also the group chairman and comprises all executive page 34. have access to the advice and services of the directors plus other divisional directors.
It is not company secretary.
In accordance with best empowered to make decisions except those that corporate governance practice under the 2010 Directors can be made by the members in their individual UK Corporate Governance Code all directors The board and its role capacities as executives with powers approved will submit themselves for annual re-election.
Details of directors who served during the by the board of the company.
The discussions Newly appointed directors are submitted for year are set out on page 47.
During the year of the committee are summarised by the group election at the first available opportunity after the board comprised the chairman, managing chairman and reported to each board meeting, their appointment.
director, seven other executive directors and together with recommendations on matters six non-executive directors.
Two of the six reserved for board decisions.
The board meets every two months and there non-executive directors are independent, one is is frequent contact between meetings.
Board Nominations committee the founder and ex-chairman of the company, meetings take place in London, New York, The nominations committee is responsible two are directors of Daily Mail and General Trust Montreal and Hong Kong, and occasionally in for proposing candidates for appointment plc DMGT, an intermediate parent company, other locations where the group has operations.
to the board having regard to the balance of and one has served on the board for more The board has delegated certain aspects of the skills and structure of the board and ensuring than the recommended term of nine years under groups affairs to standing committees, each the appointees have sufficient time available the Code.
of which operates within dened terms of to devote to the role.
Details of these are set out below.
when required and during the year comprised PM Fallon, the chairman, who was due to However, to ensure its overall control of the PM Fallon chairman of the committee, PR retire at the AGM in January 2013, died on groups affairs, the board has reserved certain Ensor and four non-executive directors, being October 14 2012.
The company announced on matters to itself for decision.
Board meetings Sir Patrick Sergeant, The Viscount Rothermere, October 15 2012 that its previously announced are held to set and monitor strategy, identify, MWH Morgan and JC Botts.
The committees succession plans would be accelerated and evaluate and manage material risks, to review terms of reference are available on the that PR Ensor would succeed PM Fallon as trading performance, ensure adequate funding, companys website at: www.
chairman and CHC Fordham would succeed examine major acquisition possibilities and com reports Nominationcommittee.
PR Ensor as managing director, both with approve reports to shareholders.
are established to ensure that appropriate information is communicated to the board in a timely manner to enable it to full its duties.
30 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com This committee met three times during the year: Sir Patrick Sergeant has served on the board Audit committee in November 2011 to extend PM Fallons service in various roles since founding the company Details of the members and role of the audit contract to January 2013: in December 2011 in 1969 and has been a non-executive director committee are set out on page 34.
The to recommend to the board the re-election of since 1992.
As founder and president of the committees terms of reference are available directors retiring by rotation: and in July 2012 company, the board believes his insight and on the companys website at: http: www.
to recommend to the board the appointment external contacts remain invaluable.
of PR Ensor as chairman and CHC Fordham as due to his length of service, Sir Patrick Sergeant pdf.
does not meet the Codes denition of Tax and treasury committee independence.
The process for appointing a successor to the Details of the members and role of the tax and chairman was conducted by a sub-committee treasury committee are set out in the Directors The Viscount Rothermere has a significant of the nominations committee, led by JC Report on page 17. shareholding in the company through his Botts, the companys longest serving nonbeneficial holding in DMGT and because of this Non-executive directors executive director, supplemented by the he is not considered independent.
The non-executive directors bring both companys independent non-executives, JC independent views and the views of the Gonzalez and DP Pritchard, and excluding The Viscount Rothermere and MWH Morgan companys major shareholder to the board.
the DMGT representatives on the committee.
are also executive directors of DMGT, an The non-executive directors who served during This sub-committee engaged an external intermediate parent company.
However, the the year, whose biographies can be found on search and board consulting rm to assist company is run as a separate, distinct and page 29 of the accounts, were The Viscount with the appointment of both the chairman decentralised subsidiary of DMGT and these Rothermere, Sir Patrick Sergeant, JC Botts, JC and managing director.
This rm undertook a directors have no involvement in the day-toGonzalez independent, MWH Morgan and DP comprehensive review of candidates including day management of the company.
interviews, upward appraisal and external valuable experience and advice to the company search of candidates.
The sub-committee met and the board does not believe these nonAt least once a year the companys chairman several times during the year to consider the executive directors are able to exert undue meets the non-executive directors without the progress of the external search rm.
inuence on decisions taken by the board, executive directors being present.
The nonnor does it consider their independence to be executive directors meet without the companys Remuneration committee impaired by their positions with DMGT.
However, chairman present at least annually to appraise The remuneration committee meets twice a year their relationship with DMGT means they do not the chairmans performance and on other and additionally as required.
It is responsible for meet the Codes denition of independence.
determining the contract terms, remuneration and other benets for executive directors, The board considers JC Gonzalez and DP including performance-related incentives.
This Pritchard to be independent non-executive committee also recommends and monitors the directors.
level of remuneration for senior management and overall, including group-wide share JC Botts has been on the board for more than option schemes.
The composition of the the recommended term of nine years under the committee, details of directors remuneration Code and the board believes that his length of and interests in share options and information service enhances his role as a non-executive on directors service contracts are set out in director.
However, due to his length of service, the Directors Remuneration Report on pages JC Botts does not meet the Codes denition of 41 to 52.
The committees terms of reference independence.
are available on the companys website at: http: www.
31 Corporate Governance Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Corporate Governance continued Board and committee meetings Board and committee meetings are arranged well in advance of the meeting date and papers covering the points to be discussed are distributed to its members in advance of the meetings.
The following table sets out the number of board and committee meetings attended by the directors during the year to September 30 2012: Tax & Executive Remuneration Nominations Audit treasury Board committee committee committee committee committee Number of meetings held during year 7 10 3 3 3 3 Executive directors PM Fallon chairman died October 14 2012 3 4 1 1 PR Ensor managing director 6 10 1 3 NF Osborn 7 10 DC Cohen 7 9 CR Jones finance director 7 10 3 fide Alfano 7 10 CHC Fordham 7 10 JL Wilkinson 7 10 B AL-Rehany 7 10 Non-executive directors The Viscount Rothermere 5 3 Sir Patrick Sergeant 3 3 JC Botts 5 3 3 3 JC Gonzalez 4 1 MWH Morgan 6 3 3 DP Pritchard 7 3 3 3 directors, develop an understanding of the Board and committee Communication with investors and potential investors view of the effectiveness shareholders company.
During the year the board, through its The companys chairman, together with the chairman, assessed its performance and that board, encourages regular dialogue with Internal control and risk of its committees.
Meetings with shareholders are management each board member and evaluated the held, both in the UK and in the US, to discuss The board is responsible for the groups strengths and weaknesses of the board and annual and interim results and highlight system of internal control and for reviewing its members.
In addition, each of the main significant acquisitions or disposals, or at the its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to committees completed a detailed questionnaire request of institutional shareholders.
Private manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure encompassing key areas within their mandates.
shareholders are encouraged to participate to achieve business objectives, and can only The chairman concluded that the board and in the Annual General Meeting.
In line with provide reasonable and not absolute assurance its committees had been effective throughout best practice all shareholders have at least 20 against material misstatement or loss.
working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at which the executive directors, nonIn accordance with principle C. 2 and C. 2.1 In view of the chairmans deteriorating health, executive directors and committee chairs are of the Code, the board has implemented a the board did not assess the chairmans available for questioning.
continuing process for identifying, evaluating performance this year.
However, as part of and managing the material risks faced by the the succession planning exercise undertaken The companys chairman and finance director group.
by the nominations committee, the role and report to fellow board members matters raised responsibilities of the chairman and managing by shareholders and analysts to ensure members director were considered at length.
of the board, in particular the non-executive 32 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com The board has reviewed the effectiveness of quarter.
The board considers longer-term Internal audit the groups system of internal control and has financial projections as part of its regular The groups internal audit function is managed taken account of material developments which discussions on the groups strategy and by DMGTs internal audit department, working have taken place since September 30 2011.
closely with the companys finance director.
has considered the major business and financial Internal audit draws on the services of the risks, the control environment and the results of A risk committee, comprising the companys groups central finance teams to assist in internal audit.
Steps have been taken to embed chairman, managing director and finance completing the audit assignments.
Internal audit internal control and risk management further director, is responsible for managing and aims to provide an independent assessment as into the operations of the group and to deal addressing risk matters as they arise.
to whether effective systems and controls are in with areas of improvement which have come to place and being operated to manage significant managements and the boards attention.
During the year and up to the approval of this operating and financial risks.
It also aims to annual report and accounts the board has not support management by providing cost effective Key procedures which the directors have identied nor been advised of any failings or recommendations to mitigate risk and control established with a view to providing effective weaknesses in the groups system of internal weaknesses identied during the audit process, internal control, and which have been in place control which it has determined to be significant.
as well as provide insight into where cost throughout the year and up to the date of this Therefore a conrmation of necessary actions efficiencies and monetary gains might be made report, are as follows: has not been considered appropriate.
by improving the operations of the business.
Businesses and central departments are selected The board of directors Investment appraisal for an internal audit visit on a risk-focused basis, the board normally meets six times a year to The managing director, finance director and taking account of the risks identied as part consider group strategy, risk management, business group managers consider proposals of the risk management process: the risk and financial performance, acquisitions, business for acquisitions and new business investments.
materiality of each of the groups businesses: development and management issues: Proposals beyond specified limits are put to the scope and findings of external audit work: the board has overall responsibility for the the board for approval and are subject to due and the departments and businesses reviewed group and there is a formal schedule of diligence by the groups finance team and, previously and the findings from these reviews.
matters specically reserved for decision by if necessary, independent advisors.
Capital This approach ensures that the internal audit the board: expenditure is regulated by strict authorisation focus is placed on the higher risk areas of the each executive director has been given controls.
For capital expenditure above specified group, while ensuring an appropriate breadth responsibility for specic aspects of the levels, detailed written proposals must be of coverage.
DMGTs internal audit reports groups affairs: submitted to the board and reviews are carried its findings to management and to the audit the board reviews and assesses the groups out to monitor progress against business plan.
principal risks and uncertainties at least Accounting and computer systems annually: controls and procedures the board seeks assurance that effective Accounting controls and procedures are control is being maintained through regularly reviewed and communicated regular reports from business group throughout the group.
Particular attention is management, the audit committee and paid to authorisation levels and segregation of various independent monitoring functions: duties.
The groups tax, nancing and foreign and exchange positions are overseen by the tax and the board approves the annual forecast treasury committee, which meets at least twice after performing a review of key risk a year.
Controls and procedures over the security factors.
Performance is monitored regularly of data and disaster recovery are periodically by way of variances and key performance reviewed and are subject to internal audit.
indicators to enable relevant action to be taken and forecasts are updated each 33 Corporate Governance Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Corporate Governance continued The appointment of Deloitte as the groups The audit committees terms of reference are Accountability and audit external auditor incumbents since the last audit available at www.
com reports Audit Committee tender in 1998 is kept under annual review and, Auditcommittee.
The audit committee comprises DP Pritchard if satisfactory, the committee will recommend chairman, independent, JC Botts, JC Gonzalez the reappointment of the audit rm.
The Statement by the directors independent, and SW Daintith, the finance appointment of Deloitte followed a formal on compliance with the director of DMGT.
Three of the four members tender process undertaken in 1998 and, rather Code are non-executive directors.
All members of the than adopting a policy on tendering frequency, committee have a high level of financial literacy, the annual review of the effectiveness of the The UK Listing Rules require the board to report SW Daintith is a chartered accountant and a external audit is supplemented by a periodic on compliance throughout the accounting year member of the ICAEW, and DP Pritchard has comprehensive reassessment by the committee.
with the applicable principles and provisions considerable audit committee experience.
The last such reassessment was performed of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code in financial year 2009, when having received issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Save The committee meets at least three times each assurances on the continued quality of the for the exceptions outlined below, the group financial year and is responsible for reviewing audit, the committee determined to recommend has complied throughout the financial year the interim report, the annual report and the reappointment of the incumbent rm.
As ended September 30 2012 with the provisions accounts and other related formal statements the appointment of the auditor is for one year set out in Section 1 of the Code.
before their submission to the board, and only, being subject to annual approval at the reviewing and overseeing controls necessary to companys Annual General Meeting, there is no Provision B.
1.2 states that half the board, ensure the integrity of the financial information contractual commitment to the current audit excluding the chairman, should be comprised reported to the shareholders.
rm and, as such, the committee may undertake of non-executive directors determined by the an audit tender at any time at its discretion.
In board to be independent.
During the year the The audit committee advises the board on performing its review, the committee evaluated board comprised 15 directors, of whom six were the appointment or reappointment of the the adequacy of the audit rms key processes non-executive and only two were considered external auditor and on their remuneration, and controls in certain key areas including, independent under the Code.
However, there both for audit and non-audit work.
It has set but not limited to: arrangements for ensuring are clear divisions of responsibility within and applied a formal policy, which focuses on independence and objectivity: including the the board such that no one individual has the effectiveness, independence and objectivity rotation of key audit partners: appropriateness unfettered powers of decision.
The board, of the external audit and includes a policy on of the planned audit scope and its execution: although large, does not consider itself to be employment of former audit staff, an annual the robustness and perceptiveness of the unwieldy and believes it is beneficial to have assessment of the qualications, expertise auditor in their handling of the key accounting representatives from key areas of the business and resources of the external auditor, the and audit judgements: and the quality of their at board meetings.
type of non-audit work permissible and a reporting.
The committee concluded that it fide minimis level of fees acceptable.
Any nonwas in the groups and shareholders interests JC Botts has been on the board for more than audit work performed outside this remit is not to tender the external audit in 2012 and the recommended term of nine years under the assessed and where appropriate approved by recommends the reappointment of Deloitte as Code and the board believes that his length of the committee.
Fees paid to Deloitte for audit the groups auditor.
service enhances his role as a non-executive services, audit related services and other nondirector.
However, due to his length of service, audit services are set out in note 4.
During The audit committee is also responsible for JC Botts does not meet the Codes denition of 2012 Deloitte did not provide significant nonmonitoring and assessing the effectiveness of independence.
The groups non-audit fee policy internal audit, and reviews the internal audit is available on the companys website www.
programme and receives periodic reports on euromoneyplc.
It reviews the whistle blowing The committee considers the required audit arrangements available to staff.
It also discusses the nature, scope and findings of the audit with the external auditor and considers and determines relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by the external auditor.
34 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Sir Patrick Sergeant has served on the board Contrary to provision A.
4.1, the board has not Provisions C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 require the in various roles since founding the company identied a senior independent non-executive remuneration and audit committees to comprise in 1969 and has been a non-executive director director.
However, JC Botts, although not entirely of independent non-executive directors.
As founder and president of the independent due to his length of service, acts as The remuneration committee is comprised of company, the board believes his insight and senior non-executive director.
three non-executive directors, one of whom can external contacts remain invaluable.
However, be considered independent under the Code.
due to his length of service, Sir Patrick Sergeant Provision B.
2.1 requires that the majority of the During the year, the audit committee comprised does not meet the Codes denition of nominations committee should be comprised of four members, only three of which were nonindependence.
Although executive directors of the company only two of the committee consists of four non-executive whom can be considered independent under The Viscount Rothermere has a significant and two executive directors, none of these the Code.
shareholding in the company through his non-executive directors can be considered beneficial holding in DMGT and because of this independent under the Code.
On behalf of the board he is not considered independent.
3.2 states that the terms and The Viscount Rothermere and MWH Morgan conditions of appointment of non-executive are also executive directors of DMGT, an directors should be available for inspection.
However, the As explained in the Directors Remuneration Richard Ensor company is run as a separate, distinct and Report, the non-executive directors do not have Chairman decentralised subsidiary of DMGT and these service contracts.
November 14 2012 directors have no involvement in the day-today management of the company.
They bring valuable experience and advice to the company and the board does not believe these nonexecutive directors are able to exert undue inuence on decisions taken by the board, nor does it consider their independence to be impaired by their positions with DMGT.
However, their relationship with DMGT means they do not meet the Codes denition of independence.
35 Corporate Governance Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance
