Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Report Introduction EVRAZ plc is a public company limited by shares incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance and control.
Further information on the Companys Corporate Governance policies and principles are available on the Companys website: www.
The UK Corporate Governance Code is available at www.
Compliance with corporate governance standards EVRAZs approach to corporate governance is primarily based on the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Company complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code or, if it does not comply, explains the reasons for non-compliance.
As of 31 December 2012 EVRAZ complied with all the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 version with the following exceptions: r Contrary to provision C. 3.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, Olga Pokrovskaya is a member of the Audit Committee, but does not meet the independence criteria set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Since more than 50% of EVRAZ activities and operations are based in the Russian Federation, Olga Pokrovskayas technical and regional experience and qualification, as a past senior audit manager at Arthur Anderson and as Head of Corporate Finance at Sibneft is of particular value to the Committee and her experience would be extremely difficult to replicate, particularly as EVRAZ is seeking to strengthen diversity on its Board.
The Company considers that, in light of her involvement with the Group over a number of years and her experience in this area, her membership of the Audit Committee is to the benefit of the Group.
At the beginning of 2012 EVRAZ was non-compliant with the following principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 version, however these deficiencies had been rectified by the end of the year: r Contrary to provision C. 3.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, only two of the three members of the Audit Committee were Independent Non-Executive Directors prior to 28 February 2012.
On 28 February 2012 Sir Michael Peat, senior Independent Non-Executive Director, was appointed to the Audit Committee.
r Contrary to provision D. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Remuneration Committee did not solely comprise Independent Non-Executive Directors prior to 19 November 2012.
On this date the Board decided that the membership of the Remuneration Committee should comprise only Independent Non-Executive Directors in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code and, consequently, Mr Abramov and Mr Tenenbaum stood down from the Remuneration Committee.
Since 19 November 2012 the Remuneration Committee has consisted of three independent members: Duncan Baxter, Karl Gruber and Alexander Izosimov.
The Company has therefore been compliant with provision D. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code since that date.
Board of Directors The members of the Board of EVRAZ plc as at 31 December 2012 were: Alexander Abramov Chairman, Alexander Frolov CEO, Olga Pokrovskaya, Eugene Shvidler, Eugene Tenenbaum, Duncan Baxter, Karl Gruber, Terry Robinson, Sir Michael Peat senior Independent NonExecutive Director and Alexander Izosimov.
Alexander Izosimov was appointed to the Board of EVRAZ plc on 28 February 2012 as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
EVRAZ plc held 11 scheduled Board meetings and 8 extraordinary meetings held in the form of conference calls and exchange of emails during 2012.
74 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Report Continued The following table sets out the attendance of each Director at scheduled EVRAZ plc Board and Board Committee meetings.
Board meetings and Committees attendance during 2012 1 2 3 Board meetings Remuneration HSE Audit Nominations Total meetings in 2013 41140 Total meetings in 2012 11 4 2 10 2 Directors participation: Alexander Abramov 10 of 11 4 of 4 2 of 2 Duncan Baxter 11 of 11 4 of 4 12 of 14 Alexander Frolov 11 of 11 2 of 2 Karl Gruber 11 of 11 3 of 4 2 of 2 4 Alexander Izosimov 9 of 9 3 of 3 1 of 1 Sir Michael Peat 11 of 11 1 of 1 13 of 14 2 of 2 Olga Pokrovskaya 11 of 11 13 of 14 Terry Robinson 10 of 11 2 of 2 14 of 14 2 of 2 Eugene Shvidler 11 of 11 1 of 1 Eugene Tenenbaum 11 of 11 4 of 4 1 Sir Michael Peat was replaced by Alexander Izosimov from 1 March 2012.
On 19 November 2012 Mr Abramov and Mr Tenenbaum stood down from the Remuneration 2 The Audit Committee met 10 times in 2012 and 4 times since the beginning of 2013 until the publication date of this annual report.
3 Alexander Izosimov and Eugene Shvidler were appointed to the Nominations Committee on 28 February 2012.
4 Appointed to the Board on 28 February 2012 Board balance and independence As at 31 December 2012, the Board of EVRAZ plc consisted of ten members, comprising nine Non-Executive Directors and one executive Director.
Half of the members of the Board were Independent Non-Executive Directors in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Company regards this as an appropriate board structure.
Following the appointment of Alexander Izosimov on 28 February 2012 five members of the Board those other than Alexander Frolov, Alexander Abramov, Olga Pokrovskaya, Eugene Shvidler and Eugene Tenenbaum were deemed to be independent in character and judgement pursuant to the UK Corporate Governance Code and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
In reaching its determination of independence, the Board concluded that each one provided an objective challenge to management and was willing to stand up to defend their own beliefs and viewpoints in order to support the ultimate good of the Company and to help develop proposals on strategy.
The Board concluded that there were no relationships or circumstances likely to affect, or which might appear to affect, the judgement of any of its independent Non-Executive Directors.
For completeness, the Board considered an arms length business arrangement between one of the Non-independent Non-Executive Directors and the son of Sir Michael Peat, the senior Independent Director of the Company, and satisfied itself that this arrangement has no impact on Sir Michael Peats independence.
In addition, the Board noted the nomination of Terry Robinson, an Independent Non-Executive Director, to the Board of OJSC Raspadskaya, which became a subsidiary of the Company in January 2013, and was satisfied that this nomination had no impact on Mr. Robinsons independence.
Role of the Board The Board and management of EVRAZ aim to pursue objectives in the best interests of EVRAZ, its shareholders and other stakeholders, and particularly to create long-term value for shareholders.
The EVRAZs Board is responsible for the following key aspects of governance and performance: r Financial and operational performance: r Strategic direction: r Major acquisitions and disposals: r Overall risk management: r Capital expenditures and operational budgeting: r Business planning.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision.
These include the following: r Responsibility for the Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy: r Responsibility for the overall management of the Group: r Reviewing performance in the light of the Groups strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets and ensuring that any necessary action is taken to deliver the required performance: r Approving reviewing changes relating to the Groups management and control structure, capital structure and major changes to corporate structure: Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 r Approving the Groups policies and all circulars, prospectuses and listing particulars: r Approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, results announcements and interim management statements: r Approving the dividend policy and any significant changes in accounting policies or practices: r Approving resolutions and corresponding documentation to be put forward to shareholders at a general meeting: r Ensuring maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management: r Reviewing approving changes and appointments to and removals from the Board and Board committees: r Appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditor: r Determining the remuneration policy for the Directors, company secretary and key senior management and remuneration policy of the non-executives subject to the articles of association and shareholder approval as appropriate: r Undertaking a formal and rigorous review annually of its own performance, that of its committees and individual Directors.
Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities have been delegated to appropriate committees to ensure compliance with the UK Companies Act, FSA Listing Rules and the UK Takeover Code.
The Board has delegated authority to the following committees to facilitate the routine business of the Company: r Audit Committee: r Health, Safety and Environment Committee: r Nominations Committee: and r Remuneration Committee.
The terms of reference for all committees of EVRAZ plc are available on the Companys website: www.
Further detail on these committees and their activities are provided on pages 76 to 82.
Chairman and Chief Executive The Board determines the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairmans principal responsibility is the effective running of the Board, ensuring that the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part in the development and determination of the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for leading the Groups operating performance and day-to-day management.
The main roles and responsibilities are outlined below: Role of the Chairman The Chairmans key responsibilities include: r Presiding at all general meetings of the shareholders and the Board and being the guardian of the Boards decision-making processes: r Leading the Board, including ensuring delegation of authority to executive Directors and management: r Ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information on the Groups performance and the issues, challenges and opportunities facing the Group so that the Board takes sound decisions and promotes the success of the Group: r Setting Board agendas and ensuring that Board agendas take full account of the important, complex and contentious issues facing the Group and the concerns of all Board members and encouraging active engagement by all members of the Board: r Ensuring that there is effective communication by the Group with its shareholders and ensuring that members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of the major investors in the Group: r Ensuring there is a properly constructed induction programme for new Directors: r Ensuring that the performance of the Board as a whole, its committees, and individual Directors is formally and rigorously evaluated at least once a year: r Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance throughout the Group and particularly at Board level.
Role of the Chief Executive officer The Chief Executive Officers principal responsibility is running the business of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The key responsibilities of the CEO include: r Proposing and developing the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives, which he does in close consultation with the Chairman and the Board: r Proposing to the Board and committee Chairmen: r a Schedule of Reserved Matters for the Board for its decision: r Terms of Reference for each Board committee: and r Other Board policies and procedures: r Implementing, with the executive team, the decisions of the Board and its committees including those regarding an annual budget and financial plans, and identifying and executing new business opportunities: r Ensuring that he she maintains a dialogue with the Chairman on the important and strategic issues facing the Group, and proposing Board agenda items to the Chairman which reflect these: r Providing information and advice on succession planning to the Chairman, the Nominations Committee and other members of the Board, particularly in respect of executive Directors: r Progressing, in conjunction with the Chief Financial Officer and, where relevant, the Chairman, the communication programme with shareholders: r Ensuring that the development needs of the executive Directors and other senior management reporting to him her are identified and met: r Ensuring that performance reviews are carried out at least once a year for each of the executive Directors and providing input to the wider Board evaluation process: r Promoting, and conducting the affairs of the Group with the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance.
76 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Report Continued Board expertise The Board has determined that as a whole it has the appropriate skills and experience necessary to discharge its functions.
Executive and Non-Executive Directors have the experience required to contribute meaningfully to the Boards deliberations and resolutions.
Full details of the skills and experience of the Board members are provided in the Board of Directors section above on pages 70 to 71.
Induction and professional development The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that there is a properly constructed and timely induction programme for new Directors upon joining the Board.
They have full access to a regular supply of financial, operational, strategic and regulatory information to help them discharge their responsibilities.
Performance evaluation An internal performance evaluation of the Board was undertaken in December 2012 with the initiative and participation of the Nominations Committee of the Company.
A questionnaire was distributed to all Board Directors for their response and comment.
The results were discussed at the Board meeting in December and Board performance was deemed to be satisfactory.
The Company intends to conduct regular internal and external performance evaluation of the Board going forward in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Evaluation of the Board will be externally facilitated within three years following the Companys listing in 2011.
Board committees The four principal Committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee at 31 December 2012 were Terry Robinson Chairman of the Committee, Olga Pokrovskaya, Sir Michael Peat and Duncan Baxter.
Sir Michael Peat was appointed to the Audit Committee on 28 February 2012.
Terry Robinson and Sir Michael Peat are both Fellows of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, Olga Pokrovskaya is a past senior audit manager at Arthur Anderson and subsequently head of Corporate Finance at Millhouse LLC and Duncan Baxter is a member of the Institute of Bankers.
All members of the Committee are considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee has responsibility for monitoring the integrity of EVRAZ plcs Group financial statements.
It oversees the Groups relationship with the external auditors and reviews the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Audit Committee also monitors the activity of the Internal Audit Department and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Controls and Business Risk Management Systems.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the Companys website www.
com, and its duties are categorised under the following headings: r Financial Reporting: r Internal Controls and Business Risk Management Systems: r Whistleblowing Procedures: r Internal Audit External Audit.
The Audit Committee met 10 times in 2012 and four times since the beginning of 2013 until the publication date of this Annual Report.
Committee members were present in person at the majority of the meetings, while 4 meetings were conducted by conference call and one meeting was by e-mail exchange.
The external auditor was present at all except three meetings: those when the Groups 3 and 9 months interim management statement and 12 months production reports were discussed, and the part of a meeting when the external auditors performance was discussed.
Such presence provided the auditors with the opportunity to gain direct information relevant to the external audit process: as well as assisting the Audit Committee with guidance on technical issues and factors relevant to the auditors when exercising their professional judgment.
The following sections summarise how the Audit Committee has fulfilled its duties in 2012, including the Committees review of the 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Financial reporting At its meeting in June 2012, the Audit Committee reviewed the 2011 Management Letter from the auditors together with managements responses to the matters raised.
Following this review the Audit Committee requested that management create an Internal Control Manual and instigate a regular reporting process to the Audit Committee of all actual and potential legal actions and the progress of such actions.
Certain potential legal actions were identified as requiring immediate notification to the Audit Committee, as part of the Groups risk management process, and Board oversight.
At the August 2012 meetings, the Audit Committee reviewed the Interim Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Interim Financial Results Announcement and the Draft Interim Analysts Presentation.
Particular areas of focus for the Audit Committee were: r Operations classified as Assets held for Sale: EvrazTrans and DKHZ, the latter asset, a coking plant in Ukraine, representing a sale to a related party: r Valuation of Mineral Reserves held by Yuzhkuzbassugol, the coal mining subsidiary, and the consequent impact of the change in depletion charges: r Impairment of assets, the impairment models, the relative WACC used as discount rates, raw material and product prices, and independently supported assumptions: r The buy-back of shares by the equity accounted entity, Raspadskaya: r The acquisition of an additional 10 per cent ownership interest by the subsidiary entity that holds and operates the Mezhegey coal field project: r The managements presentation of the Groups Accounting Judgements and Management Estimates: r The Groups statement in the Interim Report as to the principal risks and uncertainties: Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 r Environmental commitments, and r The Going Concern basis for preparing the accounts: considering both a base case and a pessimistic scenario.
The Group signed covenant amendments in June 2012 and, as a consequence of these amendments, the Audit Committee reviewed the Going Concern note in the Groups Financial Statements.
Following the above consideration, the Audit Committee recommended the Going Concern statement, the Interim Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Interim Financial Results Announcement and the Draft Interim Analysts Presentation for approval by the Directors.
At its March and April 2013 meetings, the Audit Committee reviewed the EVRAZs Annual Report, including the Groups Financial Statements, the Groups audited Announcement for the year ended 31 December 2012 and the draft Analysts Presentation.
Particular areas of focus for the Committees consideration were: r The Groups Going Concern statement: specifically the committee considered the forward estimates of EBITDA, Total debt, Consolidated Net Debt, Interest expense and Consolidated Net debt for the period to June 2014.
These projections were prepared on a base case and pessimistic case scenarios.
As the Groups funding covenants are fixed on the operational performance and balance sheet of the previous holding company Evraz Group S. A. the key operational and balance sheet assumptions were considered at the Evraz Group S. A. consolidated level.
In both the base case and the pessimistic case estimates, projections for certain of the Groups covenants suggested that in forward periods the Group might not be in compliance.
The committee considered managements strategy and options to manage the Groups funding and liquidity needs so as to remain compliant with all covenant requirements, including testing the forward EBITDA and funding estimates, the probabilities of and the sourcing and terms for refinancing.
Based on managements track record for resolving similar matters and the reviewed probabilities for the successful implementation of the managements funding and refinancing strategy and options, the Audit Committee concluded that there was no material uncertainty on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern and accordingly the Committee was able to recommend the going concern basis to the Directors.
r Impairment: resulting primarily from weakness of iron ore, coal and steel prices impairment tests were considered for the relevant Group Cash Generating Units CGU as well as all CGUs with goodwill allocated that are required to be tested annually regardless of impairment indications.
The main impairment recognised was made for Evrazruda, a business unit involved with primarily mining iron ore.
The parameters for testing the Groups CGUs are detailed in the Group Consolidated Financial Statements.
r Also the Committee considered potential impairment arising on the reclassification to assets held for sale of EVRAZ Vitkovice Steel, located in the Czech Republic and EVRAZ Highveld Steel and Vanadium, located in South Africa.
r The Committee considered the Accounting Policies detailed in note 2 following the companys proposal to capitalise the development works at the Mezhegy coal field following the final approval of its feasibility study.
Hitherto, any such capitalisations relating to new mines have been relatively insignificant, however, whilst this is not a new Group accounting policy, the Committee advised that the policy be described in note 2 to the Financial Statements r New and amended accounting standards: the Audit Committee considered the standards not effective for the Financial Statements as at December 2012.
The one with material effect on Group financial statements is the amended IAS 19 Employee Benefits that removes corridor approach and introduces immediate recognition of actuarial gains and losses of long-term employee benefits in other comprehensive income.
The revised standard will be implemented by the Group from 1 January 2013.
If the revised standard was implemented from 1 January 2012, Groups equity as of 31 December 2012 would be US$322 million lower.
r The Audit Committee considered other significant accounting judgments and management estimates, including depreciation of assets and depletion of mining assets: site restoration provisions: allowance for doubtful debts: NRV allowance for inventories: gains or losses on derivatives not designated as hedging instruments and commitments and contingencies, the disposal of the EvrazTrans operation and in respect of the annual accounts the statement of Principal Risks and Uncertainties r Further the Audit Committee considered Ernst and Youngs report on their audit results for the year ended 31 December 2012, their statement and confirmation as to their continuing independence, the review of the audit and non-audit fees and the letter of representation required by the external auditor from EVRAZ management.
Internal controls and risk management As part of the Groups Primary Listing requirements in October 2011, a comprehensive financial procedures report was prepared detailing the Groups Internal Controls and risk management systems and activity.
As noted above, at the June 2012 Audit Committee it was requested that following this report, a Group Internal Control Manual be created.
The final draft of this manual was reviewed by the Audit Committee at its meeting in November 2012.
Following this it was subject only to final review and confirmation by certain Business Unit senior managers.
The Group has in place internal controls and risk management systems in relation to the processes for both financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated statements.
These systems include policies and procedures to ensure that adequate accounting records are maintained and transactions are recorded accurately and fairly to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of Internal Control, which includes Risk Management, and for reviewing the effectiveness of these systems.
The system of internal control is designed to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks associated with the achievement of the Groups objectives.
Because of the limitations inherent in any system of internal control, the Companys system is designed to meet its particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
It is designed to manage risk rather than to eliminate risk altogether.
Consequently, it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups risk management is primarily the responsibility of the executive management and a twice yearly review of the Groups risk profile is undertaken by the Groups Risk Committee, the members of which are the Groups senior management team, headed by the Group CEO.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee the oversight of this committees deliberations and the chair of the Audit Committee is the chair of the Groups Risk Committee.
The Groups Risk Committee reviews the Groups operations and determining the Groups principal risks and uncertainties according to an impact and probability score, nominating the appropriate risk owner and reviewing the actions necessary to mitigate such risks.
Given the breadth of the Groups operations it was agreed that a system of regional and local risk committees should be established with specific accountability within the EVRAZ Business System, for the purpose of identifying, evaluating and establishing management actions for risk mitigation.
78 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Report Continued An important part of the risk management process is the determination of appropriate risk appetite at operational, local, and Group management levels, thereby identifying particular risks and uncertainties which require specific Board oversight.
The Audit Committee reviews the Groups major risks and uncertainties prior to the publication of the Annual Report and interim management statements and presents the major risk register and risk matrix for the Boards consideration, together with a review and recommendations in respect of the Groups risk appetite.
On the basis of this review, the Board considers whether the measures that have been implemented to create an appropriate risk management framework are appropriate to the Groups business plans, strategies and operations.
The Audit Committee and the Board have kept under review the action taken by the Group to be compliant with the UK Bribery Act.
Meetings of the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee have been held with the interim EVRAZ Compliance Officer, the EVRAZ Legal department and the EVRAZ communication team.
A risk review has been compiled, training modules developed and key and relevant employees have been determined with key employees having taken either in-house or e-training.
At its June meeting the Audit Committee reviewed the Groups IT strategy including plans to replace the majority of the legacy IT platforms arising from the Groups various acquisitions with a common platform through a phased programme across the Groups operations.
Subsequently, at its March 2013 meeting, following the Risk Committee review in November 2012, the Audit Committee reviewed the IT functions disaster recovery effectiveness and an audit of critical operational systems, together with the presented plans for immediate mitigation and medium term investment to ensure greater security of such critical systems.
The Audit Committee and the Board have reviewed the effectiveness of the project management processes and various initiatives have been agreed to improve project delivery.
Whistleblowing arrangements EVRAZ has established whistleblowing hotlines within its operations encompassing a multi-lingual hotline in respect of its European operations.
The facilities utilise a mixture of in-house and independent external third party arrangements.
The results are reported to the Audit Committee on a monthly basis, analysed by external and in-house facilities, and by HR, HSE, fraud and security.
Internal Audit has specific responsibility for the overall oversight of whistleblowing activity and follow-up actions.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the whistleblowing facilities as part of the Internal Audits quarterly report to the Audit Committee.
As a result of this review at the Audit Committee meeting in November 2012, the Committee requested management to revisit and revise the whistleblowing procedures in the Russian Federation in the light of two instances whereby the identity of the recorder had been prejudiced by the historic follow-up procedures.
New and robust procedures have now been introduced to protect recorders identities.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that whistleblowing facilities remain adequate in all other operations and locations.
Internal audit The Audit Committee receives quarterly reports and monthly updates from the Groups Internal Audit Department throughout the year.
The monthly report summarises current business risks and issues, progress as to the completion of internal audit plans, including any significant issues identified in completed audits and Hot Line whistleblowing statistics.
The quarterly reports encompass the results of audits and any consequential agreed management action with regard to significant audit findings, an overview of the major risks as detailed in the Groups risk register, a security report, a progress report on the implementation of agreed management action and any modification to the agreed internal audit plan and a report in respect of the Internal Audit Departments KPIs.
The Group Internal Audit functions annual audit programme, across all operations, is structured to complete annual audits of the key financial and operational cycles with emphasis and audit time allocation where the Audit Committee or management perceives a higher level of risk.
The key business cycles include processes and activities in production, operational and capital expenditure, inventory management, marketing and sales, finance and reporting, treasury, fixed assets, human resources, HSE, IT, corporate governance and secretarial, risk management, corporate and social responsibility expenditure, capital project management and support services.
The internal audit plans for 2012 were reviewed at the November 2011 Audit Committee meeting.
The 2012 programme, in addition to audits of key business and financial processes and controls, provided specific audit time for the audit of capital projects and IT procedures and controls.
At the same time the Audit Committee endorsed the Internal Audit Departments proposal to develop a process of internal control self-assessment by accountable management, thereby emphasising that ownership of internal control lies with management and is not a purely administrative or internal audit function.
The Internal Audit Department carries out spot checks on the integrity of the managements self-assessment processes and reports to the Audit Committee on their findings.
The audit plan by separate audit is analysed in terms of man-days.
Upon reviewing the audit plan the Audit Committee considers the Groups Internal Audit functions resource both in terms of total available man-days and in terms of the Internal Audit functions skill sets.
The Internal Audit Department takes part in a quality improvement programme which includes quality reviews of internal ongoing audit projects, periodic peer reviews, co-ordination with the external auditors and an external quality assessment review.
Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 External auditor The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditors.
Ernst & Young has provided audit services to the Company prior and subsequent to its listing, first to EVRAZ Group S. A. on the secondary GDR market and subsequently to EVRAZ plc listed on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange in 2011.
A London audit partner was proposed and appointed subsequent to the Primary Listing.
The current engagement of the external auditor was subject to a tender process in respect of the 2009 audit.
In June 2012, prior to the Companys Annual General Meeting of shareholders, the Audit Committee considered and recommended to the Board the re-appointment of Ernst & Young.
This review took into account the results of the auditor assessment process, including the quality of the work and communication undertaken by the external auditor and the level of audit fees.
The Audit Committee discusses the requirements for partner rotation with the external auditor to ensure appropriate independence and objectivity are maintained.
In November 2012, upon presentation of the 2012 external audit plan, the Audit Committee reviewed the quality and independence of service and also reviewed the FRCs Audit Inspection Units 2011 12 report concerning Ernst & Young.
Details of the fees paid to Ernst & Young during the year are shown in note 32 to the Financial Statements.
The Groups External Auditors Selection Policy requires tendering external audit work at least once in five years.
In November 2012 the Audit Committee also reviewed the external auditors terms of engagement in respect of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012, including audit plans, the scope of the audit and timescales.
The Audit Committee approved the audit plans and timescales and tabled the audit plans at the November Board meeting.
As part of its review of the financial statements prepared by the Company, the Audit Committee reviewed the findings of the external auditor in respect of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 at its 21 March and 8 April 2013 meetings and in respect of the financial statements for the six month period ending on 30 June 2012 at its August 2012 meeting.
As part of each of these reviews, the Audit Committee met with representatives from Ernst & Young without management present, to ensure that there were no issues concerning the relationship between management and the external auditor which should be addressed.
At each of these meetings, the Audit Committee also reviewed and approved the respective representation letters given to Ernst & Young by management.
In June 2012, the Audit Committee reviewed the letter to management detailing recommendations made by the external auditor in the course of the 2011 audit.
In its review of the engagement of the external auditor, the Audit Committee had expressed some concern at the level of non-audit fees in 2011.
As a result, in June 2012, the Audit Committee considered and approved a policy for the approval of services to be provided by EVRAZs external auditor a copy can be found on the Companys website.
This policy is compliant with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC, FRC Guidance on Audit Committees and Auditing Practice Board the APB Ethical Standard 5 Non-audit services provided to audited entities.
In addition, this policy details a general limit for fees relating to non-audit services other than further assurance services at 40% of the Groups audit services fees based on the latest approved annual audit service fees.
The non-audit fees in 2012 were US$842,000, 11% of the Groups audit service fees.
Evaluation In November 2012, the Audit Committee conducted its annual self-assessment of performance.
This assessment included a review of the Committees membership, procedures and resources, its roles and responsibilities and its relationship with the Board.
Concern was raised as to the appropriateness of the induction material.
The Company Secretary has therefore been requested to provide suitable and detailed material for future new members of the Audit Committee.
Aside from this observation, the Audit Committee concluded that its mandate and oversight performance was appropriate.
The Audit Committee also undertook an evaluation of the Internal Audit Department in combination with reviews from management and the external auditors.
In general the Internal Audit function was held in high regard and in addition to providing a satisfactory internal control and risk management assurance service, the Internal Audit Department was believed to add value to the Groups systems and control functions.
The Audit Committee discussed with the external auditors whether there were any additional complementary audit services which might be fulfilled by the Internal Audit Department and Ernst & Young said that, where appropriate, they continue to rely on the results of the Internal Audit Departments audits when scoping their audit plan.
This evaluation was in addition to the independent evaluation, referred to above.
Remuneration Committee On 19 November 2012 the Board, on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, decided to ensure that the membership of the Remuneration Committee solely comprised Independent Non-Executive Directors in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Consequently, two members, Mr Abramov and Mr Tenenbaum stood down from the Committee.
Therefore, as of 31 December 2012 the Remuneration Committee consisted of three independent members: Duncan Baxter Chairman, Karl Gruber, and Alexander Izosimov.
Alexander Izosimov replaced Sir Michael Peat on the Committee on 1 March 2012.
Role of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is a formal committee of the Board and can operate with a quorum of two Committee members.
80 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Report Continued Responsibilities The main responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are: r Determining and agreeing with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman of the Board, the Companys Chief Executive Officer, the Board Secretary and key senior management, taking into account all factors which it deems necessary including relevant legal and regulatory requirements, the provisions and recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and associated guidance: r Reviewing and having regard to the remuneration trends across the Group when setting remuneration policy for Directors: r Regularly reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy: r Determining the total individual remuneration package of the Chairman of the Board, the Board Secretary and key senior management, including pension rights, bonuses, benefits in kind, incentive payments and share options or other share awards within the terms of the agreed policy and in consultation with the Chairman and or Chief Executive Officer: r Approving awards for participants where existing share incentive plans are in place: r Reviewing and approving any compensation payable to executive Directors and senior executives: r Overseeing any major changes in employees benefits structures throughout the Group.
During 2012, the EVRAZs Remuneration Committee met four times.
The purpose of the meetings was to consider and to make recommendations to the Board on management compensation and approval of the 2012 LTIP Long-term incentive programme awards and list of participants, as well as the remuneration packages of the Chairman, Non-Executive Directors, the Executive Director and key senior managers.
For the Remuneration Report please refer to page 86.
Nominations Committee The members of the Nominations Committee at 31 December 2012 were Sir Michael Peat Chairman, Alexander Abramov, Terry Robinson, Alexander Izosimov and Eugene Shvidler.
Mr Izosimov and Mr Shvidler were appointed on 28th February 2012.
Role of the Nominations Committee The role of the Nominations Committee is to advise the Board on its composition, making recommendations to the Board with respect to the addition and replacement of Directors.
Responsibilities The responsibilities of the Nominations Committee are as follows: r Reviewing regularly the structure, size and composition of the Board and making recommendations to the Board on any appropriate changes: r Identifying and nominating, for the Boards approval, suitable candidates to fill any vacancies for non-executive and, with the assistance of the Chief Executive Officer, executive Directors: r Planning for the orderly succession of Directors to the Board: r Recommending to the Board the membership and chairmanship of the Audit, Remuneration, and Health, Safety and Environment Committees: and r Overseeing senior management development and succession plans to ensure that there is continuity of appropriate executive resource immediately below Board level.
The Committee met on two occasions during 2012, on 27 February and 19 November.
All members were present for both meetings, with the Chief Executive Officer also in attendance: r At its first meeting the Committee considered the appointment of a fifth Independent Non-Executive Director, to enhance the range of the Boards skills and experience and to ensure that half its members are independent non-executives.
After an extensive search led by the Chairman of the Board, with the assistance of other Directors, and interviews by the Chairmen of the Board and the Nominations Committee, Alexander Izosimov was identified as the best candidate.
This reflected the combination of senior international business experience, in markets in which the Group operates, and the independence which he would bring to the Board.
The Committee therefore recommended the appointment of Mr Izosimov to the Board.
No external adviser was engaged in the search for and appointment of Mr Izosimov, as the Board considered the Chairman to be the best positioned for such a task.
The Nominations Committee also considered its own composition and work programme and recommended that Alexander Izosimov and Eugene Shvidler should become members of the Nominations Committee.
In addition, the Committee considered the composition of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and recommended that Michael Peat should be appointed to the former and Alexander Izosimov to the latter.
r At its second meeting, the Committee considered compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and recommended that Alexander Abramov and Eugene Tenenbaum should step down as members of the Remuneration Committee to ensure that all its members are independent non-executives.
The Committee also considered the mix of length of time in office, skill, experience and diversity of the Directors and the continuing independence of the independent non-executives, as a basis for Board development and succession planning.
With respect to diversity, the Board has a mix of nationalities, reflecting the international nature of its business, but at present only one female Director.
It is intended to appoint further female Directors when there is an opportunity and suitable candidates.
In addition, the Committee considered the annual reviews of the performance of the Board, the Chairman and each Director, and made recommendations to the Board in these respects.
The Committee also recommended the appointment of Olga Pokrovskaya to the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee.
An internal assessment of the Boards performance was undertaken.
It was led by the senior Independent Non-Executive Director and was based on discussions with Directors and responses to a questionnaire.
During 2013 the Committee will continue to fulfill its general responsibilities, with particular emphasis on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, development and succession planning for senior management, providing updates and training for Directors and facilitating an external review of the Boards performance.
Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Health, Safety and Environment Committee The members of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee at 31 December 2012 were Karl Gruber Chairman, Alexander Frolov, Terry Robinson and Olga Pokrovskaya from 19 November 2012.
Role of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee The Health, Safety and Environment Committee leads the Boards thinking on health and safety issues, as well as maintaining responsibility for environmental, safety and local community matters.
Responsibilities of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee are: r Assessing the performance of the Group with regard to the impact of health, safety, environmental and community relations decisions and actions upon employees, communities and other third parties and on the reputation of the Group: r On behalf of the Board, receiving reports from management concerning all fatalities and serious incidents within the Group and actions taken by management as a result of such fatalities or serious incidents: r Reviewing the results of any independent audits of the Groups performance in regard to environmental, health, safety and community relations matters, reviewing any strategies and action plans developed by management in response to issues raised and, where appropriate making recommendations to the Board concerning the same: r Making whatever recommendations it deems appropriate to the Board on any area within its remit where action or improvement is needed.
The Committee met on two occasions during 2012, on 17 April 2012 and 9 October 2012.
The following sections summarise how the Committee has fulfilled its duties in 2012.
HSE performance assessment of the Group The HSE committee reviewed HSE performance and EVRAZ HSE Policy implementation progress including the following metrics: Health & Safety performance: r Fatal incidents r Fatal-Injury Frequency Rate FIFR r Lost Time Injuries LTI r Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR calculated as number or lost working hours due to injuries per 1 million hours worked r Fundamental safety requirements implementation Environmental performance: r Non-compliance related environmental levies taxes and penalties r Air Emissions Nitrogen Oxides NOx, Sulphur Oxides SOx, Dust and Volatile Organic Compounds r Non-mining waste and by-products generation, recycling and re-use r Fresh water intake and water management aspects The Committee reviewed the status of 2011 2012 initiatives and discussed the roadmap for 2013 HSE goals and actions, including: r Drive a cultural change that involves moving the Groups safety programme from just a compliance perspective to instilling safety as a core part of the steelmaking and mining processes.
A culture where safety is recognized as a core value from the top levels of management down to the front line employees and contractors.
r Improve personal responsibility and management accountability.
r Facilitate improved reporting and investigation skills.
The evaluation of the 2012 serious incidents has led to a focused effort to improve working conditions: implement a 100% Tie off programme for working at heights: separate pedestrian and vehicle traffic: improve tools and personal protective equipment.
r All of these areas of focus also involve new and improved training for managers, employees and contractors.
r Facilitate a more proactive approach with the utilisation of risk or hazard assessment into the daily activity of all employees.
The Committee also considered environmental activities to minimise the risks of environmental incidents and issues such as water usage and quality of return discharged water, air emissions, metallurgical waste recycling, tailing dam overflow or collapse and community complaints.
The key environmental initiatives are to be focused on the following in 2013: decrease of air emissions and fresh water consumption and increase of share of non-mining waste recycled or used.
82 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Report Continued Fatalities and serious accidents reports review In 2012 the Company recorded 25 fatal incidents which was a significant increase from the 13 experienced in 2011.
The HSE Committee had reviewed the causes of fatalities and serious incidents within the Group and follow-up actions taken by the management.
Additional details could be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility section on pages 54 to 56.
HSE audit results review EVRAZ operations are the subject of HSE compliance inspections undertaken by supervising state bodies.
The consequential risks of HSE regulation violation are regulatory fines, penalties or in the extreme withdrawal of mining or plant environmental licences thus curtailing operations.
The Committee approved the initiative to establish the Internal Industrial Audit Departments IIAD for the coal and mining assets and reviewed the summary of results of state bodies inspections vs. performance of IIAD.
The Committee concluded that establishment of similar audit departments for the other assets seemed unnecessary at present due to the fact that their industrial risks level is lower and safety performance is better.
The Committee recommended improvements to existing control systems by including the personalised data for each identified case of violation into the statistics.
Other issues and recommendations The Committee reviewed the results of the survey of the availability of skilled HSE personnel and HSE competency.
The total percentage of employees aged over 51 years old involved with HSE services is 30%.
The Committee recommended steps should be taken to attract younger people into the HSE structures and improve the competence of existing staff by providing more training and role exchanges to develop experience.
In order to improve HSE responsibility at all levels down to shop floor management the Committee requested that additional measures should be developed by management and brought to the Committee for review.
The Committee members reviewed HSE internal communication measures and assessed them as positive.
The Committee members discussed the approach for the Sustainability report production.
It was agreed that report should reflect the details of fundamental social risks for business and related strategies to meet these risks.
In the course of 2012 the Committee approved the following corporate policies for: r alcohol, drug and smoking: r fundamental environmental requirements.
Risk management and internal control Risk management framework The Groups business and operations are exposed to various business risks.
While a number of these risks are operational or procedural in nature, several of these risks are inherent in the character and arise from the jurisdiction of the Groups international business activities, and others relate to changes in the global economy and are largely outside managements control.
The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for maintaining our risk management and internal controls systems.
The Board defines the Groups risk appetite, being a measure of residue risk by impact and probability and is responsible for monitoring our risk exposures to ensure that the nature and extent of significant risks taken by the Company are aligned with our overall goals and strategic objectives.
The Audit Committee supports the Board of Directors in monitoring our risk exposures and has been delegated responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of our risk management and internal control systems.
The Internal Audit provides assurance to the Audit Committee as to the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems through its audit of these systems and follow-up on implementation of mitigation actions by management.
The Executive Risk Committee assesses risk exposure and evaluates the adequacy of processes in place to mitigate these risks and their implementation by management at the Group and Regional levels.
Detailed risk assessment and evaluation of risk issues at the site, plant, mine and operational level were instigated in 2012.
Substantially operational risks are managed by the Groups operational controls which are attested by Internal Audit: however, the Group is now instigating a parallel risk management process and culture at the operational level.
Risk management processes and internal controls operate across our steel plants, mines, ancillary service operations, capital projects and administrative functions.
Risk management and internal control procedures are embedded within our business practices across function areas including finance, HSE, human resources, procurement, IT, legal, security and insurance management.
There is detailed assessment of safety risks at all hazardous work places, steel plants and mines, and of project risks for all major projects which from 2012 include environmental risk assessments.
The finance and strategic risks of major projects are prepared by the executive and presented to the Board for its consideration and key associated risks are kept under regular review by the Board.
Regional risk committees have been set up at all major regions of the Groups assets and lead the process to deploy the risk management at our major steel and mining operations.
The Group Enterprise Risk Management ERM process is designed to identify, quantify, respond to and to monitor the consequences of a Risk Committee agreed executive risk register that encompasses both internal and external critical risks.
This process is consistent with the listing rules published by the UK Financial Services Authority and is based on the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
The ERM process is fully supported by the Board, the Audit Committee and executive management.
Senior management is tasked with the development of the ERM process, identifying key risk elements and, to further risk management accountability, executive management is assigned ownership of the relevant risk areas, according to their designated functions.
Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Executive oversight of the Group risk profile is mandated to the Groups Executive Risk Committee, under the chairmanship of the Audit Committee Chairman and including the Groups CEO and Groups Vice Presidents.
The role and responsibility of the Executive Risk Committee is to keep under review risk identification and the evaluation of risks and to supervise the entire risk management process including response and mitigation procedures.
Particular scrutiny is given to risks having an inherent risk greater than the Groups risk appetite and the mitigating actions to manage, where feasible, to a residual risk evaluation directed below the Groups risk appetite.
The Groups executive management is responsible for embedding the agreed Risk Management related internal controls and mitigating actions throughout the entirety of the Groups business and operations and through all levels of management and supervisory personnel.
Such practices serve to encourage a risk conscious business culture.
EVRAZ applies the following core principles to the identification, monitoring and management of risk throughout the organisation: r Risks are identified, documented, assessed, monitored, tested and the risk profile communicated to the relevant risk management team on a regular basis: r Business management and the risk management team are primarily responsible for ERM and accountable for all risks assumed in their operations: r The Board is responsible for assessing the optimum balance of risk through the alignment of business strategy and risk tolerance on an enterprise-wide basis: and r All acquired businesses are brought within the Groups system of internal control as soon as practicable.
EVRAZs risk management framework The Board of Directors: Top-down approach: r Overall responsibility for the Groups risk management and internal control oversight, identification r Approves strategic objectives and the risk appetite assessment and management of risks at corporate level Executive Risk Committee Audit Committee Internal Audit r Identifies, assesses and r Supports the Board in r Supports the Audit monitors Group-wide risks monitoring risk exposure Committee in reviewing the and mitigation actions against risk appetite effectiveness of the risk r Reviews the effectiveness management and internal of risk management and controls systems internal controls systems Regional risk committees r Adopt regional risk appetite r Support the Executive Risk Committee in reviewing and monitoring effectiveness of risk management r Identification, assessment and management of risks at the regional level Bottom up approach: r Monitoring risk management process and effectiveness of internal control identification, assessment and management of risks at Site Product line Shop Project Functional levels regional and site level and r Identification, assessment and mitigation of risks across the functions r Promoting risk awareness and safety culture in progress Risk management activity in 2012 In 2012, the Group established regional risk committees responsible for identifying and evaluating regional risks, instigating mitigating actions to manage these risks and nominating regional risk owners.
Also in 2012 the Groups Executive Risk Committee established the methodology and set out procedures to instigate site, product line, shop, project and functional level risk management with the same aims and objectives as engaged at the Groups and Regional levels.
The operational level will be particularly focused on Health and Safety, environmental management, human resources and security.
Additionally in 2012, the Group has addressed the issues and risk exposures following on from the UK Bribery Act legislation.
The Group has been active in the implementation of an anti-bribery and corruption programme.
The implementation has presented various challenges primary of which has been developing the training materials prepared by UK lawyers in an on-line multi-lingual e-training facility.
This facility has had to be custom developed, particularly there is no available Russian language off-the-shelf training material.
Key Group and functional management have undergone training facilitated by UK lawyers and intermediate management is taking the e-training programme.
Management who have successfully taken the in-person training and e-training are formally certified as to their understanding and compliance with the procedures and policies.
In 2013, Internal Audit will audit all the Groups UK Bribery Act and anti-corruption procedures and records to provide assurance over successful implementation.
EVRAZ risk prole EVRAZs original risk assessment across all plants, mines and operations in 2008 detailed all key risks.
A number of these risks exhibited a common nature, e. g. global economy and industry conditions.
Following the original risk assessment the Executive Risk Committee consolidated the risk profile to 40 specific risks.
On a risk evaluation review, Impact Probability and following agreed risk mitigation actions, these risks were detailed into the Groups risk register as to Inherent and Residual risk.
From the 40 specific risks 17 risks were identified as high priority risks which were required to be monitored by the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee and regularly reviewed by the Board of Directors.
Further, Internal Audit through its audit process reviews risk issues and reports critical risks to the Audit Committee and to the Executive Risk Committee.
Where such reports suggest risks evaluation exceed the Groups risk appetite, these risks are presented by the Audit Committee to the Board for its attention and if necessary executive action and further remediation Board reports.
84 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Report Continued From the 17 high priority risks, 9 risks are considered the Groups principal risks.
The principal risks of EVRAZ can be found on page 28 of the report.
Controls EVRAZs system of internal control has been designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Consistent with its governance policies, the Group continues to improve the process through which the effectiveness of its system of internal control can be regularly reviewed as required by provision C. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The process enables the Board and the Audit Committee to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control in place within the Group to manage significant business, operational and financial risks including, environmental, safety and ethical risks throughout the year.
The processes of preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements are designed to prevent any material misstatements and present such Financial Statements fairly in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
The use of our standard accounting manual and reporting pack by our finance teams throughout the Group ensures that transactions are recognised and measured in accordance with prescribed accounting policies and that information is gathered and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Audit Committee has the primary oversight role of the Groups internal control regime and has direction as to the internal audit function resources and the annual audit programme thereby ensuring that the Groups ongoing internal control process is adequate and effective.
Components of the system of internal control Component of the system of internal control Basis for assurance Assurance framework principle entity-level controls to prevent r Self-assessment by management at all major operations and detect error or material fraud, ensure effectiveness of r Review of the self-assessment by Internal Audit operations and compliance with principle external and internal regulations Documented regulations on establishment of delegated r Monitored by controlling and established management committee authorities, including approval of transactions and investment and sub-committees projects r Reviewed by Internal Audit Operating policies and procedures r Implemented, updated and monitored by management r Reviewed by Internal Audit Operating budgets r Monitored by Controlling Unit r Reviewed by Internal Audit r Approved by the Board of Directors Accounting policies and procedures as per the corporate r Developed and updated by Reporting department accounting manual r Reviewed by Internal Audit Internal audit Internal audit is an independent appraisal function established by the Board to evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of controls, systems and procedures, within EVRAZ, in order to reduce business risks to an acceptable level in a cost effective manner.
The latest version of Internal Audit Charter of EVRAZ plc was approved by the Board on 13 December 2012.
The role of the Internal Audit Department in the Group is to provide an independent, objective, innovative, responsive and effective value-added internal audit service through a systematic and disciplined approach by assisting management in controlling risks, monitoring compliance, improving the efficiency and effectiveness of internal control systems and governance processes.
In 2012, EVRAZs Head of Internal Audit attended all the meetings of the Audit Committee and addressed any reported deficiencies in internal control as required by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee continued to engage with executive management during the year to monitor the effectiveness of internal control and accordingly considered certain deficiencies that had been identified in internal control together with managements response to such deficiencies.
The internal audit planning process starts with the Groups strategy and includes the formal risk assessment process, and the process of identification of management concerns based on the previous audits results, and ends with an internal audit plan which is approved by the Audit Committee.
Audit resource is predominantly allocated to risky areas and to the extent considered necessary is allocated to the company processes universe with appropriate reservation for the ad hoc and follow-up assignments.
Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 In 2012: Internal audit projects have covered the following principal group risks: 1. Financing of capital projects: 2.
Health, safety and environmental: 3. Business interruption: and 4.
The Companys internal audit is structured on a regional basis, reflecting the developing geographic diversity of the Groups operations.
In light of this the head office internal audit function has been in process of aligning common internal audit practices throughout the Group through its quality assurance and improvement programmes.
During 2012 the internal audit function worked in cooperation with Ernst & Young, EVRAZs external auditor, on an appraisal of the general competence, independence and professional objectivity of the Groups internal audit resource.
Further information regarding the Companys internal control processes can be found on the Companys website.
Conicts of interest Alexander Abramov is the Chairman of the Company and Alexander Frolov is the CEO.
Ms. Pokrovskaya, Mr. Shvidler, Mr. Tenenbaum, Mr. Abramov and Mr. Frolov have been appointed to the Board of Directors of the Company by the major shareholder pursuant to the terms of the relationship agreement.
The indirect and direct shareholdings of these Directors in the share capital of the Company are set out in the Directors Report.
No other conflicts of interests exist between the private interests of the Directors or members of senior management and their duties to the Company.
For completeness, the Board did consider an arms length business arrangement between one of the Non-independent Directors and the son of Sir Michael Peat, the Senior Independent Director of the Company, and satisfied itself that this arrangement has no impact on Sir Michael Peats independence.
In addition, the Board noted the nomination of Terry Robinson to the Board of OJSC Raspadskaya, a subsidiary of the Company, and was satisfied that this nomination had no impact on Mr. Robinsons independence.
Relations with shareholders An ongoing dialogue with stakeholders is an essential aspect of corporate activity.
We use various communication channels including announcements made via the London Stock Exchange, the Annual Report and Accounts, the Annual General Meeting the AGM and the Companys website www.
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, senior management and the investor relations team regularly engage with institutional investors to discuss the Companys operations and a wide range of issues including governance.
Approximately 240 individual group meetings, conferences and other public events involving the investment community took place during 2012.
The senior Independent Director, Sir Michael Peat, is available to shareholders if they have concerns that have not been resolved by contact through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Constructive use of Annual General Meeting The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders to communicate with the Board and the Board welcomes their participation.
The Chairman and the respective Chairmen of Committees will be present at the AGM to answer shareholders questions.
The next AGM will be held on 13 June 2013.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the next AGM can be found in the Notice of AGM.
The Board has determined that voting on all resolutions at the AGM will be by way of a poll.
Each member present in person or by proxy has one vote for each fully paid ordinary share of which she he is a holder.
Information pursuant to the takeovers directive The Company has provided the additional information required by DTR 7.2.
7 Directors interests in shares: appointment and replacement of Directors: powers of the Directors: restrictions on voting rights and rights regarding control of the Company in the Directors Report.
