52 Experian Annual Report 2012 Governance Board of directors Sir John Peace 63 Chairman Sir John Peace is also Chairman of Burberry Group plc and Standard Chartered PLC.
From 2000 until 2006, he was Group Chief Executive of the former GUS plc, having been a director of GUS since 1997.
John was appointed to the Board on 6 July 2006.
Sir Alan Rudge 74 Deputy Chairman Sir Alan Rudge is Chairman of The ERA Foundation Limited and of the Board of Management of the Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851.
He is Experians Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee.
Sir Alan was Pro Chancellor of Surrey University until December 2007, a non-executive director of the former GUS plc until October 2006, President of CELTEL International B. V. and a non-executive director of S. E. S. A. AG until March 2005, Special Advisor to General Atlantic Partners until 2004, Chairman of ERA Technology until October 2003, Chairman of WS Atkins until March 2001 and Deputy Chief Executive of BT until November 1997.
He has a PhD in Electrical Engineering and is a fellow of the Royal Society and the Royal Academy of Engineering, a past chairman of the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council and a past president of the Institution of Electrical Engineers.
Sir Alan was appointed to the Board on 6 September 2006.
Don Robert 52 Chief Executive Officer Don Robert was appointed Chief Executive Officer in February 2005, with responsibility for Experian globally.
He was previously Chief Executive Officer of Experian North America, having joined Experian from The First American Corporation in 2001.
From 1995 to 2001, he held positions with First American and, before that, served as President at Credco, Inc. the largest specialist credit reporting company in the USA, which was acquired by The First American Corporation in 1995.
Don began his career with US Bancorp, a multi-state bank holding company, where he held positions of increasing responsibility over 15 years.
He graduated from Oregon State University with a degree in Business Administration.
Don is a non-executive director of Compass Group PLC, a director and trustee of the National Education and Employer Partnership Taskforce, a trustee of Sage Hill School, California, a past director of the former GUS plc and a past chairman of the Consumer Data Industry Association.
Don was appointed to the Board on 6 July 2006.
Chris Callero 60 President and Chief Operating Officer Chris Callero was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer of Experian in April 2008.
He previously served as Chief Executive Officer of Experian Americas, having joined Experian in 2002.
Prior to joining Experian, Chris spent 27 years at Bank of America, where his roles included Group Executive Vice President in retail banking.
He also served as Chief Operating Officer at Wink Communications, a leading interactive television company at the time.
Chris is a member of the Chancellors Chief Executive Roundtable at the University of California, Irvine.
He also serves in an advisory capacity for the Paul Merage School of Business, as well as the Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences, and also serves on the Board of Directors of the Segerstrom Center for the Arts.
Chris was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2009.
Brian Cassin 44 Chief Financial Officer Brian Cassin joined Experian in April 2012 as Chief Financial Officer, bringing 20 years of experience in the corporate financial advisory sector.
He was previously at Greenhill & Co. which he joined in 1998 as a founding member of the European business, becoming Managing Director in 2002 and Co-Head of the European business in 2010.
Prior to this, Brian worked with Baring Brothers International in London and in New York.
He began his career at the London Stock Exchange, having graduated from the University of Dublin, Trinity College, with first class honours in Business Studies.
Brian was appointed to the Board on 30 April 2012.
Fabiola Arredondo 45 Non-executive director Fabiola Arredondo is the Managing Partner of Siempre Holdings, a private investment firm based in the USA, and a non-executive director of Rodale, Inc. the World Wildlife Fund and Sesame Workshop.
Previously, she held senior operating positions at Yahoo!, the BBC and Bertelsmann AG and non-executive directorships of Bankinter S. A. BOC Group plc and Intelsat Corporation.
Fabiola has a BA degree from Stanford University and an MBA from the Harvard Business School.
Fabiola was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2007. Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 53 Roger Davis 55 Non-executive director Roger Davis is Chairman of Gem Diamonds Limited and Cabot Credit Management.
He is Chairman of Experians Remuneration Committee.
Roger previously spent some eight years at Barclays, latterly as the Chief Executive Officer of the 45,000 strong UK Banking operation and as a member of the Board of Barclays PLC.
Prior to that, he was in investment banking for some ten years in London and in various positions in Asia for Flemings and BZW.
Roger was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2007.
Alan Jebson 62 Non-executive director Alan Jebson is a non-executive director of Vodafone Group plc.
He is Chairman of Experians Audit Committee.
Alan retired in May 2006 as Group Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Holdings plc, a position that included responsibility for IT and Global Resourcing.
During a long career with HSBC, he held various positions in IT, including the position of Group Chief Information Officer.
His roles included responsibility for HSBCs international systems, including the consolidation of HSBC and Midland systems following HSBCs acquisition of Midland Bank in 1993.
Alan is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
He was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2007.
Deirdre Mahlan 49 Non-executive director Deirdre Mahlan has been the Chief Financial Officer of Diageo plc since October 2010.
At Diageo, her roles have included Deputy CFO and Head of Tax and Treasury for Diageo plc, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Diageo North America and Vice President of Finance, Diageo Guinness USA.
Deirdre joined Diageo in 2002, when it acquired Joseph Seagram and Sons, Inc. where she held various senior finance positions.
Having graduated from New York University with a BS in accounting, Deirdre began her career at , and she holds an MBA from Columbia University.
She has been appointed to the Board and its principal committees with effect from 1 September 2012.
George Rose 60 Non-executive director George Rose was Group Finance Director of BAE Systems plc from 1998 to 2011, having previously been Director of Finance and Treasury.
He is a non-executive director, and chairs the Audit Committees of, National Grid plc, Genel Energy plc and Laing ORourke plc.
George is a member of the Industrial Development Advisory Board, which provides advice to the UKs Secretary of State for Business on applications for financial assistance.
Prior to BAE Systems, Georges executive career included senior finance positions with Ford, Leyland DAF plc and the Rover Group, and previous non-executive directorships include SAAB AB and Orange plc.
George has a degree in business studies from Thames Polytechnic and he is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
He has been appointed to the Board and its principal committees with effect from 1 September 2012.
Judith Sprieser 58 Non-executive director Judith Sprieser is the former President and Chief Executive Officer of Transora, a technology software and services company.
She previously served as Executive Vice President, Food Operations and, before that, as Chief Financial Officer of Sara Lee Corporation.
Judith is a non-executive director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Allstate Corporation, InterContinental Exchange, Inc. and Royal Ahold N. V. She holds BA and MBA degrees from Northwestern University.
Judith was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2010.
David Tyler 59 Non-executive director David Tyler is Chairman of J Sainsbury plc and Logica plc and a non-executive director of Burberry Group plc where he chairs the Remuneration Committee.
He was Group Finance Director of the former GUS plc until it was demerged into Experian plc and Home Retail Group plc at the end of 2006.
His executive career was in financial and general management with the former GUS plc, Christies International plc, County NatWest Limited and Unilever plc.
David has a degree in economics from Cambridge University, is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and a member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
David was appointed to the Board on 6 July 2006.
Paul Walker 54 Non-executive director Paul Walker is non-executive Chairman of Perform Group plc, Chair of the Newcastle Science City Partnership and a director of the Entrepreneurs Forum.
He was Chief Executive of The Sage Group plc, a worldwide leader in business solutions for small and medium-sized enterprises, from 1994 to October 2010.
He joined Sage in 1984 as Financial Controller and was appointed as Finance Director in 1987 prior to flotation on the London Stock Exchange.
Paul qualified as a chartered accountant with Ernst & Young, having graduated from York University with an economics degree.
Paul was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2010.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee from 1 September 2012 Company Secretary: Charles Brown FCIS Independent auditors:  LLP, Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor
