54 Experian Annual Report 2012 Governance Corporate governance statement Examples include: Finance treasury approval of the framework UK Corporate Governance Code for the Groups finance, banking and capital Strategy and management approval and It is the Boards view that the Company has structure arrangements.
oversight of Experians long-term objectives been compliant with the provisions of the UK and commercial strategy, ensuring that the Appointments approval, upon the Corporate Governance Code, published by necessary financial and human resources recommendation of the Nomination and the UK Financial Reporting Council in 2010, are in place to meet the objectives.
Corporate Governance Committee, of the throughout the year ended 31 March 2012. appointment of new directors.
This statement, together with the report on Management oversight review of operating, directors remuneration, explains how the financial and risk performance.
Approval of Group policies including, for Company has applied the main principles example, an anti-corruption policy, a gifts and Regulatory statutory activity including and complied with the provisions of the UK hospitality policy and a global code of conduct.
approval of the Groups results, key Corporate Governance Code during the stakeholder documents and dividends.
Additionally, the Company has chosen to comply voluntarily with the proposed What did the Board do during the year?
changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code announced by the UK Financial The main areas of Board focus during the year included: Reporting Council in October 2011.
Operational and financial performance, including monitoring Received operational and financial updates at each Board meeting.
What is the role of the Board?
Received details of the exercise of delegated authorities by the Groups principal subsidiaries.
Reviewed monthly finance reports, including details of performance against budget and the Groups The Board is responsible for setting the financial position.
strategic direction of Experian and for Approved the Groups annual report, full and half-year financial results and made recommendations ensuring that the necessary financial and regarding dividend payments.
human resources are in place to achieve Approved the Groups budget for 2012 13. the goals.
In January each year, senior management presents the proposed strategy Strategy to the Board for the following financial year.
Received presentations from leaders of the four global business lines: Credit Services, Decision Analytics, Marketing Services and Interactive.
These included details on financial performance, This provides an opportunity for the Board to alignment to Group strategy, market outlook, product innovations and investment needs.
critically review the proposed strategy with Received further presentations on initiatives to grow revenue, current challenges and further management and, at the January Board development of Experians culture.
meeting, consider the strategy for approval.
The budget discussions in March are essential for ensuring that the right resources Corporate development are in place to deliver the agreed strategy, Approved the acquisition of Medical Present Value, Inc. a leading provider of data, analytics and and include detailed focus on both regional software in the US healthcare payments market.
and global business line budgets.
Approved the formation of a credit bureau with six of Australias leading financial institutions to provide consumer and business credit informationin Australia.
The Board also monitors management and Approved the acquisition of Computec S. A. a leading Latin American credit services information financial performance against the Groups provider based in Colombia.
To enable them to do this, operational   .
and financial updates are provided at every Board meeting.
The Board also receives postGovernance and risk Reviewed reports on risk and the appropriateness of the financial statements being prepared on a investment reviews on an agreed timeline for going concern basis.
any acquisitions and or investments it has Approved the Groups new global anti-corruption policy and gifts and hospitality policy, to ensure previously approved.
compliance with the UK Bribery Act 2010.
Approved the appointments of Brian Cassin as Chief Financial Officer CFO from 30 April 2012, It is not possible, or correct, for the Board to and Deirdre Mahlan and George Rose as non-executive directors from 1 September 2012. be involved with the day-to-day management Received regular updates on corporate social responsibility issues, and the annual health and safety of the Groups activities, but it is accountable update.
to shareholders for delivering financial Approved recommendations on Board and committee evaluation processes, the composition of the performance and long-term shareholder Board, levels of induction and the annual re-election of all Board members.
To achieve this, the Board has put in Received details of share dealings and external appointments of Board members.
place a framework of controls which enable Investor relations risk to be appraised and managed effectively Received an investor relations and media update at each Board meeting.
through clear and robust procedures and Reviewed draft analysts results presentations, when reviewing the Groups full and half-year delegated authorities.
In addition, there are financial results.
certain key activities that it has reserved to Through the Remuneration Committee, engaged with top shareholders on proposed remuneration itself for decision.
arrangements for 2011 12. Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 55 Chris Callero Chris overall responsibility Judith Sprieser Judith has previous Composition includes Experian business operations relevant experience of providing insight The Board currently comprises the around the globe, and the development and into customer decision-making, and Chairman, three executive directors and management of growth initiatives to ensure a wealth of international experience.
She is seven independent non-executive directors, the continued success of the business.
He an experienced non-executive director who including a Deputy Chairman.
Brian Cassin has strong leadership skills, clear strategic has chaired both audit and remuneration was appointed as CFO on 30 April 2012, vision and an in-depth knowledge of the committees.
Deirdre Mahlan and George Rose have been business.
appointed as non-executive directors with David Tyler David has many years Brian Cassin Brian has 20 years experience of senior executive financial effect from 1 September 2012 and David experience in the corporate advisory sector.
roles, and this is an invaluable asset to the Tyler will retire as a director on 31 December He is very familiar with the Experian business Company.
In addition, he has excellent non- 2012.
You will find biographical details of the having acted as a strategic advisor to GUS executive experience, including as chairman directors elsewhere in this annual report.
plc, our former parent company, during the both Board and committee of leading global Details of the key skills and experience of period leading up to demerger in 2006.
the current Board members, and what each brings to Experian, follow.
then, he has also acted as an advisor to Paul Walker Having spent 16 years recently Experian.
as chief executive officer of a FTSE company, Skills and experience of Board Fabiola Arredondo Fabiola brings to Paul understands the challenges of running members Experian directly relevant international a global business.
As well as having a strong Sir John Peace Sir John has many years strategic and operational experience in the financial background, he also has high-level experience as a successful board chairman, technology and media sectors, including a non-executive experience.
senior role at a pre-eminent global internet and the strength of his chairmanship is frequently mentioned during Board reviews.
She also has extensive leading Election and re-election He also has an in-depth knowledge of the international non-executive directorship All directors of the Company will be subject experience.
Experian business due to his role in its to election or re-election at the 2012 annual inception in 1980 and his time as Group Chief general meeting in accordance with the Roger Davis Roger has over 20 years Executive of GUS plc.
With experience leading and managing change Sir Alan Rudge Sir Alan has many years at large global businesses.
This notable the exception of Brian Cassin, all current experience in general management and executive, and also his non-executive, directors have been subject to a performance technology roles.
This experience means evaluation during the year.
experience means that he understands what that he has a broad knowledge of operational is required to effectively manage a large issues and, in addition, he has a deep organisation.
understanding of the Experian business.
He Alan Jebson Alans information also has a wealth of experience as a member technology, global resourcing and of other boards and as a chairman.
operational background is invaluable Don Robert Don has led Experian through at a large global business like Experian a period of enormous change, beginning where, for example, issues around server with listing as an independent company in technology and information security are of October 2006.
Prior to joining Experian, he great importance.
He also has top-level nonalready had many years experience in credit executive experience with Vodafone.
reporting businesses, and brought that to his Experian roles.
Experians governance framework Advice, review, recommendation, Delegated authority flow Board committees monitoring, executive forum Group Operating Committee Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Strategic project committees Principal subsidiaries global and regional Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee Risk management committees Executive management team executive, regional, global operations Internal Audit Operating businesses 56 Experian Annual Report 2012 Governance Corporate governance statement continued event that such a scenario should arise, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer CEO Board has appointed Sir Alan Rudge as There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman and the CEO which is set down in writing.
Deputy Chairman, with a clear division of An extract from the written statement evidencing this separation is given below.
responsibilities defined between him and Sir John.
In addition, the role of Chairman of Responsibilities the Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee was relinquished from Sir John to Chairman CEO Sir Alan in 2010.
The situation is regularly kept under review.
The effective running of the Board, and The running of the Groups business, and ensuring that the Board as a whole developing the Groups strategy and overall plays a full and constructive part in the commercial objectives.
Appointment of non-executive development and determination of the directors Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives.
Non-executive directors are initially appointed for a term of three years which may, subject Promoting the highest standards of With the executive team, implementing the to satisfactory performance and election redecisions of the Board, its committees and integrity, probity and corporate governance election by the shareholders, be extended by the principal subsidiaries.
throughout the Group and particularly at mutual agreement.
normally serve a maximum of three, threeEnsuring that a dialogue is maintained Ensuring that the Board receives accurate, year, terms i. e. nine years.
This does not with the Chairman on the important and timely and clear information on the Groups include time served as a director of the former strategic issues facing the Group and that performance and issues, challenges and GUS plc, because the Board considers the the Chairman is alerted to forthcoming opportunities facing the Group.
two companies to be wholly separate, with complex, contentious or sensitive issues.
less than nine years concurrency between the executive directors of Experian plc and any of Ensuring effective communication with Leading the communication programme the non-executive directors.
the Companys shareholders, including with shareholders.
by the CEO, the CFO and other executive management, and ensuring that members Meetings of non-executive directors of the Board develop an understanding of the views of the major investors in the Company.
In addition to their attendance at Board and committee meetings, the non-executive directors normally meet as a group without the executive directors present at the end of The Company announced in July 2009 that Sir were identified and the search process each scheduled Board meeting.
The nonJohn Peace had notified it of his intention to ceased.
Since then, Sir John has continued executive directors also meet at least once a step down as Chairman of Experian, and that to fulfil his role as Chairman of Experian year without the Chairman present, and did so he would remain in this role until a suitable very effectively and a number of institutional once during the year.
Following shareholders have provided positive feedback this announcement, the Nomination on this as part of usual engagement.
and Corporate Governance Committee The Board considered what might happen commenced the search for a suitable if an event occurred on any of his boards replacement: however, no suitable candidates that required more of Sir Johns time.
In the Board time usage for the year for Length of tenure of directors Balance of executive and independent the year ended 31 March 2012 at 31 March 2012 non-executive directors at 31 March 2012 Operational and financial performance 0 - 5 years Chairman Strategy Over 5 years Executive Corporate Independent development non-executive Governance and risk Investor relations Other Company listed in October 2006 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 57 Senior Independent Director Board visits The Senior Independent Director is the Deputy Chairman, Sir Alan Rudge.
In this role, Sir Alan is available to meet shareholders who have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman, the CEO or the CFO, or where such contact is inappropriate.
Independence of non-executive directors The Board considers each of the current non-executive directors to be independent in character and judgment and also that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect or could appear to affect each directors judgment.
In July 2011, the Board visited the Techlightenment and QAS businesses, and Board meetings received business reviews, presentations on the UK and Ireland digital strategy and product demonstrations.
In March 2012, an overseas Board meeting was held The Board meets regularly during the year in So Paulo, Brazil.
The Board learnt more about the Latin American market, and on an ad-hoc basis as required.
For each scheduled meeting, the directors normally the financial position, prospects and risk management issues in the region, meet over a two or three day period and Board and sales and marketing strategy.
On the same visit, the Board also met with committee meetings are also held during the senior management from the recently acquired Computec, giving them an early time the directors are together.
Structuring the opportunity to learn more about the business.
Board and committee meetings in this way enhances the effectiveness of the Board and its committees.
At least one overseas Board meeting is held each year, which provides management across the Group with the opportunity to present to the Board and meet The Board and committee meeting attendance record of each director is shown in the table.
In addition to formal meetings, the Board received presentations on strategy from senior management.
Board evaluation Attendance at Board and principal committee meetings A comprehensive evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees Nomination and each of the directors is carried out and Corporate every year.
For 2011, the internal evaluation Governance Remuneration Audit process was led by the Chairman and Board Committee Committee Committee supported by the Company Secretary.
Using Sir John Peace 6 6 1 3 3 1 n a n a online evaluation software, the views of all Don Robert 6 6 1 3 3 - n a n a directors were canvassed in respect of the Paul Brooks 4 4 1 n a n a n a performance of the Board and, separately, its Chris Callero 6 6 1 n a n a n a committees.
Among other things, the Board Fabiola Arredondo 6 6 1 3 3 - 4 4 1 4 4 evaluation considered the following areas: Roger Davis 6 6 2 3 3 1 4 4 2 4 4 providing direction to management and Alan Jebson 6 6 2 3 3 1 4 4 1 4 4 demonstrating ethical leadership: Sir Alan Rudge 6 6 - 3 3 - 4 4 - 4 4 assessing the line of sight to the business Judith Sprieser 6 6 2 3 3 1 4 4 1 n a for decision-making: David Tyler 6 6 - 3 3 - 4 4 - 4 4 Paul Walker 6 6 1 3 3 1 4 4 1 4 4 contribution to the development and testing of the Groups strategy: Includes, in brackets, attendance at ad-hoc meetings held during the year two Board meetings, one Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee meeting and two Remuneration Committee meetings.
top operational issues facing the Group Brian Cassin was appointed to the Board on 30 April 2012 accordingly, his meeting attendance is not reflected above.
over the next three to five years: Paul Brooks was a director until his death on 6 January 2012.
58 Experian Annual Report 2012 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Directors have access to independent Other features of the governance performance assessment of the Board in professional advice at the Companys framework its operation and decision-making: and expense, if considered appropriate.
No oversight of risk and opportunities to Global Delegated Authorities Matrix this director obtained any such advice during the improve Board performance in this area.
key document draws together the schedule year ended 31 March 2012. of matters reserved to the Board, the terms This process was complemented with of reference of the Board committees as separate meetings between each director Induction and training well as the authority levels for the Groups and the Chairman.
The evaluation of the There is an induction programme for all principal subsidiaries, directors and senior Chairman himself was undertaken by the new non-executive directors which would executives.
For matters not reserved to the Deputy Chairman, through consultation with normally include business presentations Board, the matrix prescribes the cascade of the other directors and the CEO.
from senior management, site visits and authorities delegated throughout the Group The results of the Board evaluation were receipt of information about operating by respective Group companies, together considered at the Board meeting held in procedures and activities of the Group, with the monetary limits of such delegations.
The directors have concluded the governance structure of the Group, The matrix is reviewed and refreshed that, following this review, the Board and information on the duties and responsibilities regularly and the Board monitors the exercise its committees operate effectively and also of directors and information on dealing in the of delegations to the Groups principal consider that each director is contributing Companys shares.
subsidiaries which are reported to it at each to the overall effectiveness and success of Board meeting.
There are also regional The Board received ongoing training the Group.
The Board also identified the matrices in place.
and development to ensure that they can following among its top priorities for the appropriately perform their duties.
During Strategic project committees global and coming year: the year, the Board received training regional these committees are comprised talent succession management, to ensure sessions which included UK Bribery of the most senior global and regional continuity in Board style culture and Act training, business presentations, executives.
The remit of the committees is to executive talent: legal and governance updates, product oversee a process to ensure that all strategic continued familiarisation with the business demonstrations and business updates projects are appropriately resourced, risk and executive talent, and continued from relevant leaders.
As in previous years, assessed and commercially, financially and close involvement with business issues, next years induction and training for Board technically appraised.
Depending on the including corporate development, members is expected to include site visits, outcome of the discussions, the conclusions investment strategy and growth drivers: reviews of particular regions and global of the committees are then considered by the and business lines and presentations from senior relevant Group company.
information technology and data security.
Principal subsidiaries these are Group companies to which the Board has delegated Board support Conflicts of interest certain decision-making powers, for The Group Corporate Secretariat, under The articles of association of the Company example, the implementation of decisions the leadership of the Company Secretary, allow the Board to authorise conflicts, agreed in principle by the Board: executive is responsible for providing administrative or potential conflicts, of interest.
The management of the operations of the Group and logistical support to the Board.
The authorisation procedure involves the issue within the strategy and budget approved by Company Secretary also provides advice of guidance and a questionnaire by the the Board: acquisitions and disposals with a and support on governance and certain Group Corporate Secretariat each August, value up to US$20m, and capital expenditure compliance and regulatory matters.
All asking directors to identify any conflicts or projects.
directors are provided with a regular supply potential conflicts, which are considered Risk management committees executive, of financial and operational information to by the Board at its September meeting.
In regional and global operations the assist them with the discharge of their duties.
addition, directors are expected to advise the primary responsibility of the Executive Risk This information is provided on a monthly Company Secretary of any actual or potential Management Committee ERMC, which basis and Board papers are circulated in conflicts as soon as they arise, so that they is comprised of senior Group executives time to allow directors to be properly briefed can be considered by the Board at the next including the executive directors and the in advance of meetings.
During the year, the available opportunity.
It is the Boards view Company Secretary, is to oversee the Group Corporate Secretariat implemented that the procedure operated effectively management of global risks.
The regional a process for circulating papers securely during the year under review.
risk committees oversee the management via tablet computer, which has resulted in of regional risks consistent with Experians time and cost efficiencies and has been very risk appetite, strategies and objectives.
well received by the Board.
It has also been Global operational related risks, including implemented for use by other executive technology and project risks, are monitored groups within the organisation.
by a global operations risk management Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 59 committee.
This committee also oversees shareholders and others regarding the from private shareholders using the card.
the management of operational related proposed performance measures, targets The Company Secretary ensures that the risks associated with the Groups shared and operation of the Companys executive Company responds to shareholders directly, service and data centres as well as global long-term incentive arrangements.
as appropriate, at or following the annual product development and delivery activities.
There is also an ongoing programme The regional and global operations of dialogue and meetings between the The annual general meeting is an important risk committees review summary risk executive team and institutional investors event in Experians corporate calendar and assessments and internal audit results, and analysts.
At these meetings a wide provides a valuable opportunity for the Board evaluate significant exposures, make range of relevant issues including strategy, to communicate with shareholders and meet mitigation decisions and enforce mitigation performance, management and governance with them on an informal basis before the progress, monitor changes in the regional are discussed within the constraints of main business of the meeting.
All directors operational risk profile and escalate information already made public.
The are expected to attend the annual general significant risks and issues to the ERMC.
announcement of the annual and half-year meeting.
results and interim management statements Group Operating Committee the remit of Experians 2012 annual general meeting provide opportunities for the Company to this executive group includes identifying, will take place on Wednesday 18 July 2012 answer questions from analysts covering a debating and achieving consensus on issues and shareholders are encouraged to attend wide range of topics.
After the annual results involving strategy, growth, people and culture the meeting and use the opportunity to announcement for 2011 and half-year results and operational efficiency.
A further focus of ask questions.
However, given the size and announcement for 2012, several investor this group, which is comprised of the most geographical diversity of the Companys roadshows took place including ones in New senior executives from the Group, is to ensure shareholder base, attendance may not York, Boston, London, Paris, Frankfurt and that there is strong communication and always be practical and shareholders are Edinburgh.
cooperative working relationships amongst encouraged to use proxy voting on the the top team.
The quarterly meetings tend During the year, we also hosted a number of resolutions put forward.
Every vote cast, to be issues-oriented and focus on selected investor site visits.
These half-day sessions whether in person or by proxy, is counted, important Group issues worthy of debate.
included product demonstrations and because votes on all matters except focused presentations on, for example, our procedural issues are taken by a poll.
Engagement with shareholders four global business lines, specific products In accordance with the UK Corporate and others and certain verticals.
Investor seminars are Governance Code, details of proxy voting generally held every two years, with the last The Company places considerable by shareholders, including votes withheld, one held in January 2011. importance on communication and are made available on request and placed maintaining good relationships with The Companys website is a very important on the Companys website following the shareholders, and makes every effort to method of communication with shareholders meeting.
In 2011, voting levels at the annual ensure that shareholders are kept informed and all material information reported to general meeting showed an increase to 68% of significant Group developments.
the regulatory news services, together with of the issued share capital of the Company, copies of annual results announcements, compared with 66% in 2010.
To assist members of the Board to gain an half-year results announcements and interim understanding of the views of institutional Experian website management statements, is published shareholders, the Board receives an investor on the Companys website so that all Additional information relevant to corporate relations and media report at each of its shareholders can have full access promptly governance at Experian can be found on the meetings, which covers a wide range of to Company announcements.
In January Experian website at www.
matters including a commentary on the 2012, we launched an Experian Investor perception of the Company and views There you will find: Relations application for tablet computer, expressed by the investment community, which contains information on our financial Terms of reference of the principal Board media reports, share price performance and performance, together with reports and committees.
The views of shareholders are also presentations, and news of upcoming events.
assessed in detail via an investor survey, The schedule of matters reserved to the The Board is also committed to which is normally conducted at least every Board.
ensuring that any concerns of private two years using a third party supplier.
The The memorandum and articles of shareholders are dealt with and, on its results of the next survey are scheduled to association of the Company.
behalf, the Company Secretary oversees be presented to the Board in September Details of annual general meeting proxy communication with these shareholders.
The Board consults with shareholders voting by shareholders, including votes A Shareholder Questions card is issued in connection with specific issues where it withheld.
with the shareholder documentation considers appropriate.
For example in May Contact details for any questions.
2011, the Chairman of the Remuneration for the annual general meeting and the Committee consulted with major institutional Company receives numerous questions 60 Experian Annual Report 2012 Governance Corporate governance statement continued An annual review of the effectiveness of the CEO.
The Committee also reviewed, Risk management and internal the risk management and control systems and confirmed its satisfaction with, the control is required and this was performed by features of the risk management and control The Board is responsible for establishing, the Audit Committee in May 2012, under systems and the control framework, noting maintaining and reviewing sound risk delegated authority from the Board.
The the level and quality of the various forms management and internal control systems.
review included senior executives being of assurance both management and As such systems are designed to manage asked to confirm compliance with the independent that it received during the year.
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Groups system of internal control, Group Following the review, it is the Boards view achieve business objectives, they can provide policies, and corporate governance and that the information was sufficient to enable reasonable, but not absolute, assurance corporate responsibility processes, i. e. it to review the effectiveness of the Groups against material financial misstatement or to confirm compliance with the Turnbull system of internal control in accordance with loss.
For certain joint arrangements, the Guidance Internal Control Revised Guidance the Turnbull Guidance, and that the system Board places reliance upon the systems of for Directors throughout the financial year.
has no significant failings or weaknesses.
internal control operating within the partners Unqualified confirmations were received infrastructure and the obligations upon from all regional finance directors and partners boards relating to the effectiveness officers, senior Group functional heads and of their own systems.
Principal features of the risk management and internal control systems Tone at the top Sustaining a culture of integrity and ethical values supported by a global code of conduct, anti-corruption policies and a sustainable corporate responsibility programme.
Commitment to competency through our people selection, retention and talent management programmes.
Further details on this process can be found in the Our people, our strength section.
Managements commitment to maintaining a strong risk and control culture through support of a structured enterprise governance and risk management framework.
Further details can be found in this section and the risks and uncertainties section.
How do we identify, manage and information security policy and a policy on Regional and executive risk management control risk?
committees receive quarterly reporting on the status of principal and emerging There is an ongoing process for identifying, Defined and well-understood review risks along with the status of significant assessing and managing the significant risks and approval procedures for major projects that promote the Groups faced by the Group, including those risks transactions, capital expenditure and strategic objectives.
relating to social, ethical and environmental revenue expenditure.
Further details on this process, The Audit Committee receives global The regional and global strategic which was in place throughout the year risk management reports during the project committees review and evaluate ended 31 March 2012 and up to the date of year which are generated through the all significant business investments, approval of the annual report, can be found in facilitated, quarterly contribution of developments and divestments, with risk the risks and uncertainties section.
managers in each area of Experians assessment an integral component of the business: including facilitated What does the control environment evaluation process.
contributions from key governance look like?
Appropriate strategies to deal with each functions such as Information Security, Terms of reference for the Board and significant risk that has been identified, Business Continuity, Legal, Government each of its committees, which are including internal controls, insurance and Affairs, Compliance, Finance, Group regularly reviewed.
Corporate Secretariat, Internal Audit and Clear organisational structure, with the Technology Services.
Information and communication global and regional delegated authorities Fraud and whistleblowing procedures are Monthly finance report to the Board, matrices clearly outlining the delegation in place for employees to report suspected which includes a Group financial of authority, including from the Board to improprieties and the Audit Committee summary, Group results, forecasts and principal subsidiaries.
receives regular reports on this area from sales trends, investor relations analysis Principles, policies and standards to the Head of Global Internal Audit.
and detailed business trading summaries.
be adhered to throughout the business.
Detailed monthly performance reviews at These include a global risk management a regional level.
policy, accounting policies, treasury policy, Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 61 What monitoring takes place?
Certificates are provided annually by Internal control over financial reporting each business and key function leader Detailed policies and procedures are in Well-developed system of planning, to confirm compliance with the Groups place to ensure the accuracy and reliability incorporating Board approval of Group system of internal control, Group policies, of financial reporting and the preparation strategy and budgets.
Performance and corporate governance and corporate of consolidated financial statements.
A against the agreed plan is subsequently responsibility processes.
comprehensive Group Accounting Manual monitored and reported at each Board GAM, including details of International meeting.
The Groups internal audit function Financial Reporting Standards IFRS provides independent testing and The achievement of business objectives, requirements, is in place.
The document verification of risk management policies, both financial and non-financial, is is owned by the Groups finance team and processes and practices across the Group assessed on a monthly basis, using a has been rolled out across the Group.
All and reports to the Audit Committee on range of key performance indicators.
Experian companies are obliged to follow the effectiveness of the system of internal There is regular reporting to the Board in the requirements of the GAM.
respect of the exercise of the delegations the GAM are to: The Audit Committee reviews a variety of authorities to the principal subsidiaries.
provide guidance on accounting issues: of reports on risk, including material The global risk management policy risk reports, material litigation reports, allow for consistent and well defined provides for the ongoing identification information security reports and information for IFRS reporting and escalation of accepted, new and regulatory and compliance reports.
requirements: emerging risks to management and the The Audit Committee performs an annual Board as appropriate.
provide uniform measures for quantitative review of the effectiveness of the Groups and qualitative measures of Group Each business unit is responsible for systems of risk management and internal performance: and the day-to-day management of risk and control and receives an annual report on for ensuring that risk exposure remains increase the efficiency of the Groups the controls over relevant risks.
The global risk reporting process.
The internal audit programme and management policy outlines, for business methodology is aligned to the risk units, the expectations in relation to categories and makes use of risk escalation of identified risks, control assessment information at a business weaknesses or gaps.
level in planning and conducting its audits.
62 Experian Annual Report 2012 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Governance Board committee reports Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee report The Committee was in place throughout The principal Board committees are the the year ended 31 March 2012 and met Nomination and Corporate Governance Sir Alan Rudge four times, including one ad-hoc meeting.
Committee, the Remuneration Committee Chairman Seven members of the Committee are and the Audit Committee.
The committees of Nomination considered by the Board to be independent operate within defined terms of reference and Corporate non-executive directors in accordance which cover the authority delegated to Governance with provision B.
2.1 of the UK Corporate them by the Board.
The terms of reference Committee Governance Code.
The Group Human are available on the Experian website Resources Director and members of the at www.
com or from the Global Talent team attend certain meetings Company Secretary upon request.
The Company Secretary is secretary to Sir Alan Rudge Chairman all three principal committees.
Sir John Peace Activities Throughout the year, the committee Don Robert At its meetings during the year, the Committee: chairmen provided the Board with a report Fabiola Arredondo approved the process for the 2011 Board of the issues considered at committee Roger Davis evaluation: received an AGM Issues briefing meetings and the minutes of Audit Alan Jebson from the Company Secretary: recommended Committee meetings were circulated Judith Sprieser to the Board that all directors retire at the 2012 to the Board.
Reports of the activities of each David Tyler annual general meeting, and reviewed its of the principal Board committees follow.
Paul Walker performance and terms of reference.
Primary roles The Committee also discussed the overall To ensure that appropriate procedures are in structure, size and composition of the place for the nomination, selection, training Board.
The discussions included the and evaluation of directors, and that adequate desirable attributes of any proposed new succession plans are in place.
non-executive director taking into account, among other things, diversity, including To review the Board structure, size, gender diversity.
composition and succession needs, at all times keeping under consideration the balance of In addition, the Committee reviewed membership and the required balance of skills, progress with the talent agenda, received experience, independence and knowledge of an insight into the impact of the talent the Board.
framework and identified future actions To identify and nominate, for the Boards on talent.
The succession plans for the approval, suitable candidates to fill vacancies Chairman, CEO, non-executive directors and for non-executive and, with the assistance senior management were also reviewed.
of the CEO, executive directors, such This planning ensures that appropriate appointments to be made on merit and against leadership resources are in place to achieve objective criteria to ensure that the Board Experians strategic objectives and includes maintains its balance of skills, experience, strong development programmes and crossindependence and knowledge.
To review legislative, regulatory and The Committee also agreed the statement on corporate governance developments diversity made by the Chairman at the 2011 and make appropriate recommendations annual general meeting and, in March 2012, as part of the early adoption by the Company to the Board, and ensure that the standards of proposed changes to the UK Corporate and disclosures recommended by the UK Governance Code, approved the new Board Corporate Governance Code are observed.
The policy can be summarised as follows: We respect, value and welcome diversity, including gender diversity, and seek to reflect the diversity of our client, investor and general employee base in our Board.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 63 To this end, we recruit talented and diverse All members of the Committee were provided Remuneration Committee report Board members who have the appropriate mix with an induction in the role of the Committee of skills, capabilities and market knowledge to and the operation of its terms of reference on Roger Davis ensure Board effectiveness.
Chairman of we look across all sectors and non-traditional Remuneration Activities talent pools and we require diversity of Committee candidates on our shortlists.
At its meetings during the year, the Committee: The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that we describe the process reviewed incentive arrangements related to used in relation to Board appointments.
In the acquisition of Computec: Current members connection with the appointment of our new initiated the invitation to employees to Roger Davis Chairman independent non-executive directors, Deirdre participate in the 2011 Sharesave scheme: Fabiola Arredondo Mahlan and George Rose, the process reviewed the draft report on directors Alan Jebson commenced in September 2011.
At that point, remuneration: Sir Alan Rudge the Nomination and Corporate Governance Judith Sprieser initiated and reviewed feedback from Committee reviewed and approved an David Tyler a shareholder consultation exercise outline brief and role specification and Paul Walker concerning the proposed performance appointed Lygon Group as the search agent measures, targets and operation of the for the assignment.
Lygon have also provided Primary roles Companys long-term incentive plans: Board and committee evaluation services and To recommend to the Board senior market research for succession planning.
agreed the 2011 bonus outcome and the management remuneration policy and the preliminary 2012 bonus targets and those In discussing the desirable attributes of any remuneration of the Chairman.
for long-term incentive awards: new non-executive director, the Committee To determine individual remuneration received updates in respect of the longagreed that, if possible, candidates should packages for executive directors and certain term incentive plans of the Company: possess, among other things, recent and senior executives.
The Committee agreed the participants for certain longalso considers diversity when thinking about term incentive plans: To communicate with shareholders on the composition of the Board.
received an update on corporate governance issues relevant to Between September 2011 and March 2012, To review and recommend to the Board the remuneration: and meetings were held with Lygon to discuss design of the Groups short and long-term agreed to make share plan awards.
the specification and the search, an initial incentive plans.
long list of candidates was prepared and The Committee also approved the To oversee the Groups executive pension interviews were held.
A short list was then proposed remuneration for three new arrangements.
presented to the Committee in March 2012, senior appointments the new CFO, the and the Committee recommended to the new Managing Director, EMEA and the new Governance Board the appointment of Deirdre and George Managing Director, UK and Ireland: reviewed as non-executive directors in May 2012.
At its The Remuneration Committee was in place the fee of the Chairman and the salaries of May 2012 meeting, the Board appointed both throughout the year ended 31 March 2012 the CEO, the COO, the Company Secretary with effect from 1 September 2012.
In due and met six times, including two ad-hoc and a number of senior executives, taking course, a tailored induction programme will be meetings.
All of its members are considered account of remuneration arrangements developed for the new non-executive directors.
by the Board to be independent non-executive throughout Experian: received general directors in accordance with provision D. 2.1 and regional market overviews: received a of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
summary of the Groups global remuneration The Chairman and CEO attend meetings position and considerations for the next year, by invitation.
They do not attend when their and reviewed its own performance and terms individual remuneration is discussed and of reference.
no director is involved in deciding his or her The report on directors remuneration sets own remuneration.
Other regular attendees out the way in which the Company has include the Group Human Resources Director applied corporate governance principles to and members of the Global Reward team.
The Committee meets regularly with its independent advisers.
64 Experian Annual Report 2012 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Other  staff attend auditors, assessing the annual audit plan Audit Committee report meetings where their particular expertise presented to the Committee in September can be utilised.
At each meeting, the 2011 noting the scope of the audit, potential Alan Jebson Committee meets with the external auditors risks outlined and materiality thresholds and Chairman of Audit and the Head of Global Internal Audit reviewing an assessment of the auditors which Committee without management present.
included feedback from the Committee and relevant senior management.
David Tyler, a Committee member, provides recent and relevant financial experience Reviewed a variety of reports on risk, as and also provides an in-depth knowledge more fully described in the internal control of Experians business.
The Board is and risk management section of this Current members confident that the collective international statement, received an internal audit update Alan Jebson Chairman business experience of the Committee at every meeting and received a fraud and Fabiola Arredondo members enables them to act as an effective whistleblowing update.
The Committee has access to Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups Sir Alan Rudge the financial expertise within the Group and system of risk management and internal David Tyler the auditors and the Chairman of the Audit control, including financial, operational, Paul Walker Committee is in regular contact with key compliance and risk management on an members of senior management.
To monitor the integrity of the financial Activities Made a recommendation to the Board statements.
for shareholder approval in relation to the The key activities of the Audit Committee re-appointment of the external auditors and To review the effectiveness of the system of during the year ended 31 March 2012 considered their engagement terms.
internal control including the risk management included the following: system.
Reviewed other services provided by the Reviewed the 2011 preliminary and 2012 external auditors, evaluated their performance To review the effectiveness of the audit process half-year results announcements and the and monitored their independence, concluding and the independence and objectivity of the 2011 annual report and accounts, impairment that they had maintained their independence external auditors.
papers as required by IAS 36 and papers throughout the year ended 31 March 2012. supporting the preparation of relevant To monitor and review the effectiveness of the accounts on a going concern basis.
Reviewed and approved the Groups treasury internal audit function.
policy, approved the annual meeting schedule In September 2011, received a detailed To develop and monitor policy on non-audit of the Committee and evaluated its own briefing from senior management on services to be provided by the external auditors.
performance and concluded that its terms of important elements of the information reference remained appropriate.
To approve the remuneration and terms of security infrastructure, including an update on engagement of the external auditors and priorities, plans and progress on information make recommendations in relation to their security initiatives and related investment, to re-appointment.
reflect a further increased focus on this area in the light of recent high profile breaches Governance at other organisations.
The Committee also received a briefing on the Companys crisis The Audit Committee was in place communication plan in this context.
throughout the year ended 31 March 2012, and met four times with meetings held Received an update at each meeting on the to coincide with key dates in the financial roll-out of the programme designed to address reporting and audit cycle.
All members of the requirements of the UK Bribery Act 2010, the Committee are considered by the Board including assessment of relevant guidance, the to be independent non-executive directors deployment of policies, noting that compliance, in compliance with provision C. 3.1 of the UK review of completed risk assessments and Corporate Governance Code.
progress on the planned training programme would be included in future internal audits.
The Chairman and the other directors attend meetings by invitation.
Other regular Took steps to assess the effectiveness of the attendees include the Global Executive Vice audit process, receiving updates on the audit President Legal and Regulatory Risk and the process from the auditors including details of Head of Global Internal Audit.
The lead audit key matters and assessments of management partner from  LLP judgements, reviewing the content of the attends all meetings.
management representation letter to the Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 65 UK Financial Reporting Councils December The Committee receives half-yearly reports External auditors 2010 Guidance on Audit Committees.
To containing details of assignments carried out  LLP have been date, the Committee has not considered it by the external auditors in addition to their the Companys auditors since the Group necessary to require the auditors to tender normal work, together with details of related was demerged from the former GUS plc for the audit work.
There are no contractual fees.
The payment of non-audit fees to the in October 2006.
At its September 2011 obligations restricting the Companys choice Companys auditors is capped at 100% of fees meeting, the Audit Committee concluded of external auditor.
for audit and assurance services, except in that it remained satisfied with the work of exceptional circumstances, and an analysis of  LLP provide a the auditors in terms of its independence fees paid to the external auditors for the year range of other services to Experian and, to and level of challenge to management.
The ended 31 March 2012 is set out in note 11 to ensure auditor objectivity and independence, Committee also noted that there were no the Group financial statements.
a policy has been adopted by the Company in material issues around the quality of delivery relation to the provision of such services.
The In addition to the policy summarised below, of the audit, audit staff or the level of service policy includes financial limits above which the external auditors maintain safeguards to provided.
Overall, there were no significant recurring items to suggest that the auditors the Chairman of the Audit Committee must ensure the objectivity and independence of should change their approach and there was pre-approve any proposed non-audit services.
The safeguards include nothing to indicate that an effective audit the rotation of the lead audit engagement had not been carried out in respect of the partner and the use of separate teams, where year ended 31 March 2011.
There is also a policy in place for concluded that the Group and the auditors the employment of former employees of the had complied with the guidance set out in the external auditor.
Policy on the provision of be best placed to carry out such work.
are put out to tender and decisions to non-audit services This may include, but is not restricted to, award work are taken on the basis of shareholder and other circulars, regulatory demonstrable competence and cost This policy has not been changed during reports and work in connection with effectiveness.
However, the external the year, and remains appropriate for the acquisitions and divestments.
auditors are specifically prohibited from Group.
Provided that the provision of such performing work related to accounting services does not conflict with the external Tax services: where the external auditors records and financial statements that will auditors statutory responsibilities and knowledge of the Groups affairs may ultimately be subject to external audit: ethical guidance, the following types of provide significant advantages which management of or significant involvement services may be assigned to the external other parties would not have.
Where this is in internal audit services: any work that auditors: not the case, the work is put out to tender.
could compromise the independence of Further assurance services: where the General: in other circumstances, the the external auditors: and any other work external auditors deep knowledge of external auditors may provide services that is prohibited by UK ethical guidance.
the Groups affairs means that they may provided that proposed assignments
