Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Overview AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT John Sheldrick Chairman of the Audit Committee monitor the integrity of the Annual Foreword by the Chairman of Financial reporting Report, the Half Yearly Financial Report The Audit Committee reviewed a wide range the Audit Committee and the Preliminary Results: of financial reporting and related matters in During the year under review, the Committee review analyst presentations at the half respect of the Companys half year and welcomed Vanda Murray to the Committee annual results statements and its Annual and full year: following her appointment to the Board on 11 Report prior to their consideration by the January 2012.
David Buttfield stepped down review of internal financial controls and Board.
In particular, this included a review of from the Committee on the same date as he the internal control management the accounting on business combinations, the had completed nine years tenure with the systems: significant judgmental areas of the Company and was no longer considered to be impairment of goodwill, the provisions on monitor and review the effectiveness and independent under the Code.
I would like to inventory, warranty and taxation and the main performance of the internal audit function thank David for his very valuable contribution assumptions underlying retirement benefit including the approval of the internal to the Committee over the period.
Reports highlighting key control programme and review visits and accounting matters and significant The work and responsibilities of the meet with the Senior Internal Auditor at judgements were also received from Committee are set out over the following least once a year:  LLP PwC in pages.
approve the Charter for Internal Audit: respect of the year end statements and discussed by the Committee.
Analysis to Composition and governance review the risk management systems and support the going concern statement given on The Audit Committee operates under formal reports which are outlined in more detail page 26 was also reviewed.
written terms of reference which govern its in the Business Review on page 21: role and responsibilities.
The Committee also reviewed managements review procedures for detecting fraud: half year and full year results presentations The Committee is comprised of the three review the Whistleblowing Policy annually: for analysts and shareholders.
independent non-executive directors and is chaired by John Sheldrick.
Vanda Murray was review the whistleblowing report semi Following consideration of the matters appointed to the Committee on 11 January annually: presented to it and discussion with both 2012 at the same time David Buttfield stepped management and PwC, the Committee was review the summary of Group insurance down as a Committee member.
Neither the satisfied that the significant judgements policies and levels of deductibles: Board Chairman, nor the executive directors made were justified and that the financial are members of the Committee although they reporting disclosures made were appropriate.
make recommendations to the Board in can attend by invitation.
John Sheldrick, on relation to the appointment or retaking on the role of Chairman of the Risk management and appointment and remuneration of the Committee, met the requirement of having external auditors and their terms of internal control had recent and relevant financial experience, engagement, including approval of the Management of risks is essential to the having been Group Finance Director of audit plan: delivery of the Groups performance and Johnson Matthey plc from 1995 until his therefore the Group has a continuous process ensure that the external auditors are retirement in 2009.
The Group Company for identifying, evaluating and managing risk, independent, objective and effective: Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee, with the process itself being subject to which also has access to the services of the annually review the policy on non-audit regular review and refinement.
Risks are Group Finance Director, Senior Internal work carried out by the external auditor: reported to the Audit Committee twice a year Auditor, Group Business Risk Manager and this policy takes into account external and the Committee has received a external professional advisors.
The guidance relating to the provision of nonpresentation from an independent consultant, Committee can request the attendance at audit services: Maxaim, who are helping to run the Group meetings of any director, external auditor or Risk Workshop programme in conjunction review the schedule of non-audit work Group employee as considered appropriate.
with the Group Business Risk Manager.
The carried out by the external auditor in the The Committee meets with the external Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of year: auditors without the presence of management the Groups system of internal control and at two of its meetings during the year.
review the financial statements of the UK assures itself on the rigorousness of the Fenner Pension Scheme: internal control process.
The internal control Responsibilities and review covers operational, financial and review the terms of reference for the activities during the year compliance controls.
The Committee receives Audit Committee on an annual basis: and The Audit Committee fulfils the requirements a financial internal control report at least of the Code and its work covers the following: review the Groups treasury policies.
twice a year from the Senior Internal Auditor.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 38 Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance continued Based upon the internal control and risk The Committee received and reviewed written leaving the market is considered remote since reports, the Board determines the nature and confirmation from the external auditors on all they are one of the top four global accounting extent of the significant risks it is willing to relationships that, in their judgement, may firms.
take in achieving strategic objectives and the bear on their independence.
The external Internal Audit Board believes it does maintain sound risk auditors have also confirmed that they consider themselves independent within the The Committee reviewed the results of audits management and internal control systems.
meaning of UK regulatory and professional undertaken by internal audit and considered the adequacy of managements response to requirements.
A detailed review of Risk Management is any matters raised, including the set out on page 21 As a general principle, the external auditors implementation of any recommendations are excluded from consultancy work and made.
The Committee considered and cannot be engaged by Fenner for other nonapproved the 2012 internal audit programme.
Whistleblowing audit work unless there are compelling The effectiveness of internal audit was To support the Groups Whistleblowing Policy, reasons to do so.
The Groups detailed policy formally reviewed, taking into account the Fenner operates a Group-wide international on the non-audit services which can be views of directors and senior management on hotline.
Run by an external and independent provided by the external auditors is set out in such matters as objectivity, proficiency, third party, the hotline facilitates the table below.
During the year, non-audit resourcing and audit strategy and planning.
arrangements whereby employees can make services amounting to 162,000 were No non-routine matters of concern were on an anonymous basis if preferred incurred.
This amount comprised tax drawn to the Committees attention by either confidential disclosures about suspected compliance 15,000, tax advisory 50,000 the external or internal auditors during the impropriety and wrongdoing.
Any matters so and assurance services 97,000, principally year.
Matters of material concern are reported are investigated and escalated to the relating to half year agreed upon procedures immediately drawn to the Committees Audit Committee as appropriate.
A report and a non-statutory audit of special purpose attention if and when they arise.
summarising all disclosures made during the financial statements.
period is submitted to the Audit Committee Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors Effectiveness and reappointment twice a year.
The Committee evaluated the performance of the external auditors during the year and External Auditors concluded that this was satisfactory.
The Independence performance of PwC will continue to be John Sheldrick The Committee monitored the external reviewed annually.
Chairman of the Audit Committee auditors compliance with applicable ethical 7 November 2012 guidance and, in addition, considered the Following the review, the Committee independence and the objectivity of the concluded it was appropriate to recommend external auditors taking due account of all to the Board PwCs appointment as the appropriate guidelines.
The risk of PwC Policy on non-audit services by the external auditors Prohibited non-audit services Permitted non-audit services, subject to approval by the Committee audit their own work: taxation services: make management decisions for the specific projects on internal audit where Company: the scope and management is determined by the Committee: act as advocate for the Company: staff secondments where management authorise, execute or consummate a is clearly directing and controlling the transaction on behalf of the Company: secondee and on the basis that the secondee cannot make management determine which recommendation of the decisions: audit firm should be implemented by the Company: litigation support services, providing it does not include significant advocacy internal audit services, other than from the audit partner: and specific projects determined by the Committee: corporate financial services involving advisory, acquisitions and disposals and provision of IT consultancy: due diligence.
legal services: HR and recruitment consultancy: and underwriting services.
