Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance HONESTY, INTEGRITY, DECENCY AND HIGH BUSINESS STANDARDS Mark Abrahams Chairman Meetings were offered to all our top 20 Board visits Foreword from the Chairman The Board has made several site visits to shareholders, many of whom accepted.
This is I firmly believe that a well run company is one operations around the world, reflecting the something we intend to do periodically and with high standards of governance, a spectrum of business interests in the Group.
invitations for meetings have been extended commitment and adherence to strong Local management teams gave presentations to the proxy voting agencies.
These meetings business ethics and one where there is trust to the Board at each visit, including an overview have provided an opportunity for both the and mutual respect throughout the whole of operating unit strategy and each visit Company and major shareholders to gain corporation.
The strength, growth and included an in depth tour of the facility.
Further insight, mutual understanding and comfort resilience of Fenner is built on deeply site visits are planned for 2013 and it is the over the corporate governance policies in embedded core values which are based on intention that at least one Board meeting each operation at Fenner.
These meetings are principles of strong governance and include: year will be held at one of the operations.
entirely separate to shareholder meetings do no harm to employees, the environment or These visits help to broaden and deepen the that the executive directors undertake.
The corporately, a strong culture of autonomy non-executive directors knowledge and meetings have been very productive and with accountability and empowerment, understanding of the Groups business.
constructive and confirmed widespread honesty, integrity and decency, delivering agreement and support for the Group from Initiatives and activities excellence and adherence to high business the major shareholders.
The Board, cognisant of the Lord Davies report standards.
on diversity, reviewed the Companys policy on Board independence Both I and the rest of the Fenner Board agree diversity.
This review resulted in a Board The Board continues to assess the skills set with the statement in the UK Corporate Diversity Statement being implemented.
The required to enable it to be effective.
The Board Governance Code the Code that the Board Diversity Statement is discussed in comprises four non-executive directors, three highest standards of governance help more detail on pages 34 to 35.
Other initiatives of whom are considered to be independent engender effective, entrepreneurial and in the year include building on and refining the and one, David Buttfield, who is deemed by prudent management and contribute towards review of strategy that was started in 2011 and the Code to no longer be independent due to the long-term success of the Company: the which is anticipated to be completed later this his length of tenure and who will be retiring at Board adopted the Code in 2011 and year: this has been a rigorous top down and the conclusion of the AGM in January 2013.
In continues to work in accordance with the bottom up review which resulted in the addition, there are two executive directors and Principles outlined within it.
strategic goals outlined in the Chief Executive myself as Chairman and we are supported by Officers Review on page 8.
A new Risk New Board member the Group Company Secretary.
Given my Workshop programme was introduced as part During the year, we welcomed Vanda Murray previous role as Chief Executive Officer of the of the Risk Universe risk management system to the Board as Senior Independent Director.
Group, I was not independent on appointment, with presentations being made to the Audit Vanda has a background in sales and Committee on progress to date: this nevertheless the important strategic reasons marketing, in companies with a wide programme offers each operation the for my succession as Chairman were agreed geographic reach appropriate to Fenners opportunity to look at their operations in a with the major shareholders prior to my business interests.
Vanda brings more objective and strategic way and evaluate appointment.
We continue to ensure that we complementary skills, strengths and their specific risks, controls and related have the right balance of independent expertise to the Board and she has proven to mitigation strategies.
directors on the Board so that we are be a very valuable member of it.
compliant with all other main provisions of A detailed review of Risk Management the Code and to provide assurance to our Governance and compliance visits and Principal Risks are set out on During the course of the summer, Vanda and I shareholders that Board decisions are taken pages 21 to 22 have undertaken a number of visits to our in the long-term interests of the Group and major shareholders for the purposes of therefore the shareholders, employees and During the year, the Board approved five discussing our corporate governance.
Allison Custom Fabrication Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 31 Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Overview completed in early December 2011. considered to be independent on appointment professional management teams in place Norwegian Seals, American Industrial having previously been the Chief Executive around the Group with robust controls and Plastics and Mandals completed in early Officer: the reasons for this appointment were financial and commercial expertise to ensure explained in full to shareholders in last years the long-term success of the Company.
In October 2012, we exchanged contracts to acquire Australian Annual Report, where it was also noted that Specific matters are reserved for the Boards Conveyor Engineering.
This transaction is the appointment was made after extensive consideration under a formal schedule which consultation with major shareholders.
expected to be completed in November 2012. is reviewed on an annual basis.
Under that All of these acquisitions were discussed in This Corporate Governance report should be schedule and in addition to fulfilling the role depth by the Board, covering the strategic fit, read in conjunction with the Business Review set out above, the Board reviews trading the value to shareholders that each offered performance and business strategy, approves on pages 7 to 28, Other Statutory Information and the management and integration of the on pages 40 to 42 and the Board significant capital expenditure including acquired businesses.
These acquisitions, Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 49.
The acquisitions and disposals, manages relations whilst small, contribute to the Group strategy and communication with shareholders, information required under Rule 7.2.
6 of the and will help maintain its strong, growing and Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the considers senior management appointments, resilient characteristics.
formulates policy on key issues and approves Financial Services Authority FSA is included on pages 40 to 42.
The Board has formal Board In addition to the above, the Board, amongst meetings throughout the year to deal with other matters, covered the following: Leadership prescribed matters and to receive the reports received the annual HSE review from the of the executive directors.
Between formal What is our approach to corporate Group HSE Coordinator: meetings, the Chairman and non-executive governance?
directors have access to the executive The Board expects and demands strong reviewed the corporate broking directors and the Group Company Secretary governance and controls throughout the arrangements and appointed Citigroup as and do meet with the members of the Group.
This is particularly important as the a joint broker alongside Jefferies Hoare Executive Committee throughout the year.
culture of the Group is one of entrepreneurial Govett: Day-to-day management and operational leadership, encompassing autonomy and matters are delegated to a duly authorised approved the new five year RCF bank accountability: this is Board led and cascaded facilities: Executive Committee comprising senior down to all Group operations to ensure that executives whilst other specific Board level they share the same vision, values and adopted the corporate governance matters are delegated to sub-committees of standards.
The performance of the operations principle that all directors retire on an the Board.
Details of the composition and and the management teams is reviewed by annual basis and put themselves up for purpose of these delegated Committees are the Board via regular reports, meetings and re-election at the AGM: set out on pages 33 to 34. presentations and the Board plays a key role in reviewing strategy, risk and the introduced the webcast presentation of The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer management of risk.
Shareholders our financial half year results: this and how responsibilities are divided requirements are also managed by the Board initiative will be built on and developed The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive and it acts as a conduit between shareholders with the aim of further improving our Officer are separate and distinct and have and operations to ensure that their interests shareholder communications: and been codified into a written description of are aligned.
The aim is to maintain a Board specific responsibilities.
The principal adopted a written description of the with the right balance of skills and experience responsibility of the Chairman is for the specific responsibilities of the Chairman to help govern and lead the Company.
leadership and effectiveness of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
whilst the principal responsibilities of the Role and responsibilities of the Board Chief Executive Officer are for the operational I have started the Board evaluation process The Board provides strong leadership for the and an external facilitator has been performance of the Group, promoting a strong Company, giving effective management and health and safety ethos and communicating appointed, although the full evaluation oversight to the operations to promote the the expectations of the Board in relation to the process is not expected to complete before long-term objectives and strategy of the Group.
the end of the calendar year.
Further details of Companys culture, values and behaviours.
It ensures that there are highly competent and this process are given on page 35.
This report sets out in more detail what we Flow of responsibilities have done in the year, how we have applied the Principles of the Code, including any areas of divergence from the Code, and what Internal Audit Audit The Board initiatives we are examining.
The report also Committee explains how the Board and its Committees Operational are structured and highlights changes to the & Financial Review Executive Directors Board during the year.
Remuneration Committee Compliance with the Risk Management Review provisions of the Code Nomination Group Operations The Board reviewed the requirements of the Committee H&S Framework Code and has complied with the provisions and spirit of the Code.
The Chairman was not Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 32 Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance continued The role of the Chairman The role of the non-executive directors Independent Director is available to Mark Abrahams ensures that he fulfils the role The non-executive directors bring shareholders and she, along with the of a non-executive Chairman professionally independence of mind, experience and Chairman, met with the corporate governance and properly with all due consideration being complementary skills to the Board.
They heads of several major shareholders during given to strong and effective governance whilst engender constructive debate and challenge the year.
These visits, which are separate to the simultaneously preserving the culture of the during Board discussions and help develop analyst meetings that the executive directors Company.
The presence of four non-executive strategy.
They scrutinise the performance of attend, help to foster the relationship between directors, three of whom are independent, also management, satisfy themselves on the the Company and its shareholders, help the ensures that no one individual has unfettered integrity of the financial systems, controls and Company better understand the requirements powers in terms of decision making or Board risk management and determine the levels of of its major shareholders and allow direction.
The Chairman sets the overall tone: remuneration for the executive directors.
shareholders to have access to the Company to he promotes strong leadership and an effective raise concerns or issues or to confirm that they Vanda Murray joined the Board on 11 January Board, fosters the vision, values, governance are happy with the performance of the Company 2012 and became the Senior Independent standards and ethical behaviour of the and the way it is being governed.
These Director, taking over from David Buttfield.
The Company, encourages an atmosphere of meetings will take place on a regular basis: role of the Senior Independent Director, openness and invites robust and constructive invitations were also extended to the proxy debate around the Board table.
The Chairman amongst other matters, is to meet the Code voting agencies as well as major shareholders sets the Board agenda, chairs the meetings requirements and act as a sounding board for although not all organisations have taken up and ensures that directors receive timely and the Chairman and serve as an intermediary for clear information.
the other directors as necessary.
The Senior the offer of a meeting.
How are we structured to ensure good, strong governance?
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Executive Committee Role Role Role Role Responsible for the oversight of the Responsible for determining the Responsibilities include reviewing the Responsibilities include day-to-day Companys financial reporting, internal remuneration packages of the executive composition of the Board, the management of the Group and controls and risk management and directors and other senior executives identification and nomination of operational matters.
managing the relationship with and and advises on executive remuneration candidates to fill Board vacancies and policy issues, as well as reviewing the considering succession planning for all effectiveness of the external auditors.
appropriateness of the remuneration Board positions and senior executives.
The Committee administers the long-term Performance Share Plan.
Membership Committee Chairman Committee Chairman Committee Chairman Committee Chairman John Sheldrick Alan Wood Mark Abrahams Nicholas Hobson Non-executive directors Non-executive directors Non-executive directors Executive director Alan Wood Vanda Murray i Vanda Murray i Richard Perry Vanda Murray i John Sheldrick Alan Wood John Sheldrick Other members David Buttfield ii David Buttfield ii David Buttfield ii Group Company Secretary: Debra Bradbury Executive director Managing Directors of operations: Nicholas Hobson David Landgren David Jones Nick Grasberger John Pratt Edwin Have John Mullineaux Corporate Development Director: Richard Morello Others who are invited to attend from time to time External auditor Chairman Group Finance Director Group Business Risk Manager Chairman Chief Executive Officer Group Company Secretary Group HSE Coordinator Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director External advisors as required External advisors as required Group Finance Director Group Company Secretary Group Company Secretary Independent external advisors Group Financial Controller Group Treasurer and Head of Tax Group Business Risk Manager Senior Internal Auditor i. Vanda Murray was appointed to the Committee on 11 January 2012 ii.
David Buttfield resigned from the Committee on 11 January 2012 Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 33 Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Overview There are four non-executive directors on the Audit Committee Role of the Executive Committee Board, three of whom are considered to be The Executive Committee is chaired by the The work, responsibilities and independent under the Code.
David Buttfield Chief Executive Officer and consists of the two governance of the Audit Committee executive directors, the Group Company stepped down as Senior Independent Director at are set out on pages 38 to 39 Secretary and seven members of the Groups the conclusion of the AGM on 11 January 2012 senior management including senior and also stepped down from the Committees of Nomination Committee executives from the operations.
The Executive the Board in line with Code requirements: he Responsibilities Committee meets at least six times a year and will be retiring from the Board in January 2013.
Terms of reference set out the Nomination deals with the daily management of the Group The non-executive directors have broad and Committees role and duties.
These include through powers delegated to it by the Board.
valuable experience, knowledge and skills and reviewing the composition of the Board, the The Committee oversees and manages the are independent in character and judgement.
identification and nomination of candidates to operational, financial and safety performance There are no known relationships or fill Board vacancies and considering succession of the Group, helps to set strategy, identifies circumstances which are likely to affect, or planning for all Board positions and senior and manages risk and is instrumental in could appear to affect, their judgement.
The Committee is cognisant of the identifying and managing acquisitions along Board Diversity Statement and applies the with the local management teams.
The role of the Committees principles of that Statement when recruiting candidates to the Board.
Specific diversity Remuneration Committee Effectiveness targets will not be set: instead each candidate Composition of the Board is assessed on their own individual merits, The remuneration policy of the Company The Board currently comprises the nonis set out in the Board Remuneration experience and suitability for the role although executive Chairman, four non-executive Report on pages 43 to 49 the Committee and Board do value diversity of directors, the Chief Executive Officer and perspective, experience and opinion as this Group Finance Director and it is supported by Responsibilities assists in promoting a well-balanced and the Group Company Secretary.
The balance of The Remuneration Committee is responsible effective Board.
independence on the Board is carefully to the Board for determining the remuneration Nomination Committee governance maintained and it has the appropriate balance packages of the executive directors and other The Nomination Committee comprises the of skills, experience, independence and senior executives and advises on executive Chairman, the independent non-executive knowledge necessary for the operation of an remuneration policy issues, as well as directors and the Chief Executive Officer and effective and robust Board.
The non-executive reviewing the appropriateness of the is chaired by Mark Abrahams.
The Committee directors have extensive experience at remuneration policy.
The Committee generally meets at least twice a year and has executive and non-executive Board level of administers the long-term Performance Share the power to request the attendance at running international industrial engineering Plan.
It is also consulted on the granting to meetings of any director or Group employee companies and bring these skills to bear at certain employees of an executive cash longas considered appropriate.
term incentive plan with performance Activities measures aligned with growth in the Biographies of the Board, setting out their During the earlier part of the year, the underlying earnings per share of the Company current appointments and experiences, are Committee finalised the appointment of set out in The Board on pages 29 to 30 over a three year measurement period.
Vanda Murray as a new non-executive director Remuneration Committee governance and Senior Independent Director.
The Board reviewed the Lord Davies report on The Remuneration Committee comprises diversity and women on boards and developed Terms of reference of the Committees of the three independent non-executive directors a Board Diversity Statement.
All appointments Board and is chaired by Alan Wood.
Vanda Murray are made on individual merit regardless of The terms of reference of the Audit, joined the Committee on 11 January 2012 and gender, ethnicity or religious beliefs: the Remuneration and Nomination Committees David Buttfield stepped down from the principal concern of the Group is to ensure all are reviewed at least annually and are Committee as he was no longer considered to candidates are of appropriate experience, available to view on the Groups website at be independent under the Code.
Neither the ability and fit for the role.
com or upon request to the Group Board Chairman nor the Chief Executive comprises six male directors and one female Company Secretary.
Officer are members of the Committee although they can be invited to attend.
The Independence Gender Chief Executive Officer, if invited to attend, does not participate in any decision in relation 14% to his own remuneration.
The Committee has the power to request the attendance at meetings of any director or Group employee 43% 43% as considered appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee received advice during the year from AON Hewitt and Deloitte LLP in relation to director and senior 86% 14% executive remuneration and the Performance Share Plan.
AON Hewitt has no other Independent non-executive directors Male connection with the Company.
Deloitte LLP Chairman Non independent directors Female provides general consulting advice to the Group.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 34 Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance continued director.
The Board does not intend to set well as with key members of the management information can be reviewed ahead of meetings specific diversity targets because it could team from health, safety and environment, to enable the Board to discharge its duties fetter the ability to appoint the best candidate finance, tax and treasury, risk management proficiently.
We have improved access and based on merit alone which would be against and business development.
New Board timeliness of information to the Board with the Board and Group philosophy.
appointees are given a tailored induction pack adoption of electronic board papers, dispensing along with an explanation of different areas.
with the need for paper board packs and Appointments to the Board enabling the Board to access information and The Nomination Committee manages Board An example of a typical Board induction archive material quickly and efficiently.
appointments and agrees the candidate programme is given below: specification, which sets out the type of skills, The Group Company Secretary is available to experience, qualifications and knowledge a Director induction programme all Board members.
She is responsible for preferred candidate should ideally have: this ensuring that the Board follows procedures, Vanda Murray is agreed and discussed with external providing information, guidance and advice as independent recruitment consultants.
The well as ensuring that the Board members are Board considers diversity, including gender, The induction programme for Vanda kept up to date on governance, regulations, when recruiting new candidates.
All candidates development and best practice.
Murray covered: are chosen on merit, against the objective Company structure, policies, procedures The Board has access to independent criteria set in the candidate specification, professional advice at the Companys expense and strategy.
This included Group regardless of race, gender or religious beliefs structure, history, strategy, future should they require it to discharge their duties.
and therefore in line with the Board Diversity direction, introduction to key people, Board Statement.
Board succession is borne in mind Ensuring an effective Board practices, policies, procedures and and discussed as part of the process.
The Board believes that maintaining the right compliance policies and the health and balance of skills, experience, knowledge and Commitment safety Framework which is explained in independence is crucial in maintaining an All Board members are expected to be able to more detail on pages 51 to 52 including a effective Board and it is confident that the devote sufficient time to the Company to copy of the Framework DVD and policy.
current Board structure and membership discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Industry, products, territories and achieves this aim.
Board members interact Board members are expected to attend all well with each other and with wider competitive environment.
An overview of main Board and Committee meetings and have the Groups operations, products, management thereby helping to ensure that sufficient time available to prepare for such territories and markets.
Vanda visited all Board members are able to make meetings.
Executive directors cannot hold more several UK operations as part of the meaningful and cohesive contributions to than one non-executive directorship in a FTSE induction covering both ECS and AEP Board discussions and decisions.
100 company although currently neither of the divisions, meeting with local management.
executive directors holds such a FTSE 100 role.
Board evaluation The Chairman conducted a rigorous Development, information and support evaluation of the Board last year and an New Board appointments receive a full The Chairman, via the Group Company independent external evaluation has been tailored induction when joining the Company Secretary, ensures that information is started in the year under review.
The external which includes meetings with the Chief submitted to the Board and its Committees in facilitator has met with each Board member Executive Officer, Group Finance Director and a timely manner so that all documents, papers, individually, starting with the Group Company the Group Company Secretary individually as briefing notes, proposals and financial Secretary, and will review the Board, its processes, composition, effectiveness, adequacy and timeliness of information, Meetings of the Board quality of Board papers, balance of skills, The attendance of each director at Board, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and understanding of strategy, communications Nomination Committee meetings is set out below.
with and understanding of shareholder Non-executive issues, effectiveness of the Committees and Audit Remuneration Nomination director the performance of the Chairman.
The full Board Committee Committee Committee meetings evaluation is expected to be completed by the end of the calendar year 2012.
The Board Number of meetings during the year 6 3 6 2 3 therefore expects to be able to report more fully on the process and outcome next year.
Chairman M S Abrahams 6 3 6 2 3 Relations with shareholders Communicating with shareholders Executive directors The Company encourages regular dialogue N M Hobson 6 3 6 2 - with its major shareholders, private client R J Perry 5 1 3 1 0 - brokers and also with private investors at the AGM.
There are regular face to face meetings Non-executive directors throughout the year with major shareholders V Murray from 11 January 2012 5 2 5 1 3 along with briefings with brokers and D F Buttfield 6 3 2 6 2 2 2 3 analysts.
Whilst most meetings are conducted A J Wood 6 3 6 2 3 by the Chief Executive Officer and Group J N Sheldrick 6 3 6 2 3 Finance Director, this year, there has been a By invitation 1 Richard Perry was unable to attend one main meeting due to personal reasons but did fully brief the Chairman ahead of the meeting 2 By invitation for meetings held after 11 January 2012 Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 35 Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Overview series of meetings between shareholder monitor events with a view to ensuring any agreed with the Audit Committee, reviews compliance and governance departments and conflicts are handled appropriately.
the compliance of each operating unit the Chairman and Senior Independent with the Group's standard internal Internal Control Director.
All Board members understand that financial control procedures: they have responsibility for engendering and In accordance with the requirements of the competition compliance programmes are maintaining good relations and Code and the recommendations of the in place in several jurisdictions: communications with shareholders.
NonTurnbull Guidance on internal control, the executive directors can request to be present directors can confirm that, after having compliance policies are applied including at meetings with major shareholders and will reviewed the effectiveness of the control a Code of Business Conduct, an Antibe available to attend meetings as requested systems and arrangements, no significant bribery & Corruption Policy and a by major shareholders.
changes to material risks, control failings or Whistleblowing Policy: and weaknesses have been identified that resulted Shareholder views and comments are a programme of business risk reviews in unforeseen material losses.
Whilst the communicated to the Board.
The Board also with operational management focusing on directors are responsible for the Groups receives copies of all analyst and broker reports.
non-financial controls and risk system of internal control, like any system of management.
internal control, it can only provide reasonable The Groups website provides comprehensive and not absolute assurance against material investor relations information for shareholders Statement of directors misstatement or loss.
The website includes analyst presentations, the current share price, responsibilities Key procedures within the internal control regulatory announcements, financial The directors are responsible for preparing structure are: performance information, shareholder the Annual Report, the Board Remuneration information and an investor relations contact the identification of major business and Report and the financial statements in address.
A new website is being designed which insurance risks faced by the Groups accordance with applicable law and will enhance shareholder information and give operations, by both the Board and senior regulations.
further clarity on the Group and its businesses.
management, and the determination of Company law requires the directors to the most appropriate course of action to Constructive use of the AGM prepare financial statements for each deal with these risks: Before the formal commencement of the financial year.
Under that law the directors AGM, there is a presentation to the attending central review and approval procedures in have prepared the Group financial statements shareholders by the Chief Executive Officer respect of major areas of risk such as in accordance with International Financial and Group Finance Director, following which acquisitions and disposals, litigation, Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by shareholders are invited to ask questions.
At treasury management, taxation and the European Union and the parent company the conclusion of the formal business of the environmental issues: financial statements in accordance with AGM, all members of the Board make United Kingdom Generally Accepted a clear management structure with well themselves available to answer questions.
Accounting Practice United Kingdom defined lines of responsibility and the Accounting Standards and applicable law.
In relation to the AGM: appropriate levels of delegation: Under company law the directors must not separate resolutions are proposed for regular review of the Groups operating approve the financial statements unless they each substantially separate issue units by operational and executive are satisfied that they give a true and fair view including the receipt of the Annual management and monthly reports from of the state of affairs of the Group and the Report: the senior managing directors: Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial proxy forms allow shareholders to direct a structured process for appraising and statements, the directors are required to: their proxy vote either for or against the authorising capital projects which resolution or to withhold their vote: includes clearly defined authorisation select suitable accounting policies and levels: projects are subject to postthen apply them consistently: the proxy count is available at the AGM in investment appraisals: respect of each resolution after it has make judgements and accounting been dealt with on a show of hands: well established consolidation and estimates that are reasonable and reporting systems for both the statutory prudent: the Notice of Meeting, the Annual Report and monthly management accounts: and any other related papers are made state whether IFRS as adopted by the monthly, half yearly and annual financial available to shareholders more than one European Union and applicable United results are prepared by the consolidation month before the meeting: and team and reviewed by management, with Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material financial reports distributed to all Board shareholders are invited to ask questions departures disclosed and explained in the members: during the AGM as well as having an Group and parent company financial opportunity to meet the Board before and comprehensive budgeting systems with statements respectively: and after the formal meeting.
an annual budget approved by the Board: monthly results are reported against prepare the financial statements on the Conflicts budget and revised forecasts for the year going concern basis unless it is The statutory duties for directors relating to inappropriate to presume that the are prepared regularly: conflicts of interest are set out in the Company will continue in business.
No conflicts arose an internal programme of monitoring during the year and the Board continues to visits by the internal audit team, as Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 36 Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance continued The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Board Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Board believes it meets the Code provision of presenting a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects via its Annual Report, Half Yearly Financial Report, Interim Management Statements and through its periodic analyst and shareholder presentations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in The Board on pages 29 to 30 and remain in office, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Business Review contained on pages 7 to 28 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors Mark Abrahams Chairman 7 November 2012 Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 37
