Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Report Introduction The structure and business of the Board are designed to ensure that The Ferrexpo Board remains committed to good corporate governance the Board focuses its attention on strategy, management, governance practices, in its management of the affairs of the Group and in its and control issues.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters which accountability to shareholders, and keeps under review the Groups sets out those matters requiring Board approval and specifically own policies and procedures in these areas.
As detailed in this report, reserved to it for decision such as approving the Group strategy and the Directors Report and the reports of the Audit, Nominations and budget, annual and long-term capital expenditure plans, and contracts Remuneration Committees, the Group has implemented an effective for more than a certain monetary amount.
The Board is responsible for corporate governance framework and has established Board setting the Groups objectives and policies, providing effective committees, internal procedures and Group policies which are leadership and control required for a public company and for approving considered vital for the proper management of the Group and good the Group strategy, budgets, business plans and major capital governance of Ferrexpo as an international business.
It also monitors financial performance and critical business management of the Group have a policy of conducting all business issues.
Major project approvals, contract awards and key policies and affairs in a fair and transparent manner and in maintaining high ethical procedures also require the approval of the Board.
standards in dealings with all relevant parties.
As a company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, the Company is Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities have been delegated to subject to the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code the 2010 Code.
appropriate committees to ensure compliance with the Companies Act The 2010 Code is available from the Financial Reporting Councils 2006, FSA Listing Rules and the 2010 Code.
It is the responsibility of website, www.
the CEO and the Executive Committee to manage the day-to-day running of the Group.
The Board is supported by the Executive Information Pursuant to the EU Takeover Directive Committee which meets approximately monthly.
All of the information The Company has provided the additional information required by that is submitted to the Board by management is reviewed and the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.
7 of the UK Listing Authority approved by the Executive Committee.
Directors interests in shares: appointment and replacement of Directors: powers of the Directors: restrictions on voting rights and All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company rights regarding control of the company in the Directors Report Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are and the Remuneration Report.
followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for advising the Board Statement of Compliance on governance issues.
In Accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R During the year to 31 December 2012 the Company complied with Directors have the right to request that any concerns they have are all relevant provisions of the 2010 Code.
recorded in the appropriate committee or Board minutes.
The 2010 Code establishes principles of good governance in five areas: The Board met six times during the reporting period.
Attendance by Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration, and Relations Directors at Board meetings and Board committee meetings is shown with Shareholders.
This report explains how these principles were on pages 52 and 53.
All Board meetings are held in Switzerland.
applied, with the exception of those relating to Directors remuneration which are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 66.
Chairman, CEO and Senior Independent Director The roles of the Chairman and CEO are held by different individuals.
The Groups auditor has reviewed those parts of this statement which The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and CEO has it is required to review under the Listing Rules of the Financial been clearly established in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its Leadership and Effectiveness effectiveness, setting its agenda and ensuring effective communication The Board with shareholders.
The Chairman also ensures that there is a The Board is composed of a Non-executive Chairman: Michael constructive relationship between the Executive and Non-executive Abrahams: two Executive Directors: Kostyantin Zhevago, Chief Directors.
From time to time the Chairman holds meetings with the Executive Officer CEO, and Christopher Mawe, Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
CFO : and five Non-executive Directors.
Oliver Baring is the Senior Independent Director.
The other Non-executive Directors are Lucio The Chairmans other current responsibilities are set out in the Genovese, Wolfram Kuoni, Ihor Mitiukov and Mike Salamon.
biographical notes on pages 48 and 49.
There has been no increase in those commitments during the reporting period.
Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report are set out on pages 48 and 49, and details of their membership of Board The role of the CEO is to provide leadership of the executive team, committees are set out on pages 52 and 53.
A summary of the roles to develop proposals for the Board to consider, and to oversee and of the Chairman, the CEO and the Senior Independent Director is implement Board-approved actions.
Details of Mr Zhevagos other set out below.
appointments are set out in the biographical notes on pages 48 and 49.
50 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements The Senior Independent Director, Oliver Baring, in conjunction with the Conflicts of Interest other independent Non-executive Directors, assists in communications A procedure is in place to deal with Directors conflicts of interest and with shareholders concerning corporate governance matters if that the recording, reporting and, where appropriate, approval of related is required.
He also chairs the Nominations Committee and the party transactions and review of relevant disclosures.
This procedure Committee of Independent Directors.
At least once a year, the Senior isin line with published guidance, the Companys Articles of Association Independent Director meets the Non-executive Directors, without the and the provisions in section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 on Chairman present, to evaluate the Chairmans performance.
Schedules of a Directors actual or potential conflicts and related party transactions have been compiled based on Board Balance and Independence disclosures made by the Director.
These are updated and reviewed on The Board considers that its membership of two Executive Directors, a regular basis by the Executive Committee, the Executive Related a Non-executive Chairman and five Non-executive Directors, four Party Matters Committee ERPMC which is composed of certain of whom are deemed by the Board to be independent, is of an members of the Executive Committee and other members of senior appropriate size and structure to manage the Group in an effective management and the Committee of Independent Directors CID.
It also considers that no single Director can changes to the schedules are noted at the beginning of the next Board dominate or unduly influence decision making.
The CID has delegated authority to carefully consider and if Agreement with Kostyantin Zhevago specifically deals with decision deemed appropriate in the circumstances approve on behalf of the making.
More details are given below.
Board transactions where there is a risk of a conflict of interests.
This procedure operates effectively, and the Group undertakes to follow The Board has carefully considered the guidance criteria on emerging best practice in this area.
independence of Non-executive Directors under the 2010 Code.
In the opinion of the Board, all the Non-executive Directors bring The Board has established the CID to consider and, if appropriate, independence of judgement and character to the Board and to the approve related party transactions and transactions where there is Board committees on which they sit.
The Board considers that, with the a risk of a conflict of interest to the extent foreseen within Chapter 11 exception of Mike Salamon who until September 2012 represented a of the Listing Rules whether in relation to Mr Zhevago or any other significant shareholder, all of the Non-executive Directors as at the date Director, and to consider any matters referred to it concerning the of this report are independent of the Group within the terms of provision operation of the Relationship Agreement and ensure that decisions B.
are taken objectively in the Companys interest.
This Committee also oversees anti-bribery compliance matters on behalf of the Board.
Lucio Genovese and Wolfram Kuoni are required to devote more time to their duties as Non-executive Directors of Ferrexpo AG than had Appointments to the Board and Re-election been expected at the time of their appointment.
The Board therefore Under its terms of reference the Nominations Committee is responsible increased their remuneration with effect from 1 January 2009 as set for leading the process for appointments to the Board.
The process for out in the Remuneration Report on page 66.
In reaching this decision election and re-election of Directors is set out in the Directors Report the Board also concluded, in the light of the supervisory and nonon page 67. executive nature of their duties as directors of Ferrexpo AG, that both Mr Genovese and Mr Kuoni remained independent in character and Information and Professional Development judgement, as defined by provision B.
The Board Directors receive briefing notes and reports for their consideration in believes this still to be the case.
advance of each Board meeting, including reports on the Groups operations to ensure that they are up to date on the latest Mr Zhevago is a beneficiary of The Minco Trust which owns 100% of developments and are able to make fully informed decisions.
These Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. the major shareholder in the Group.
Consequently notes and reports take into account the factors set out in section 172 he, The Minco Trust and Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. have entered into a of the Companies Act 2006 Directors duty to promote the success Relationship Agreement with the Company to ensure that the Group is of the Company, which are considered by the Executive Committee capable of carrying on its business independently, that transactions and when making any proposals and recommendations to the Board.
relationships between the Group, Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. The Minco Trust Decisions made by the Board are set within the framework of the and MrZhevago are at arms length and on normal commercial terms, Directors statutory duty to promote the success of the Company and that there shall be at all times a majority of Directors independent for the benefit of its members as a whole.
of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. The Minco Trust and Mr Zhevago on the Board the Relationship Agreement.
Professional development and training are provided in a number of ways, including updates given to the Board on changes and proposed changes in laws and regulations affecting the Group.
Site visits to ensure Directors are familiar with the Groups operations are held at least annually, and Directors may visit the operations of the Group independently to the extent that they feel this is necessary.
During the year, as in previous years, the Board spent two days visiting the site in Ukraine.
51 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Report continued All Directors may take independent professional advice at the expense Board of the Group in the furtherance of their duties.
On appointment, all Six Board meetings were held during the year.
Directors are advised of their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of a public listed company.
In addition an appropriate induction Attendance Board members record programme is provided to a Director on appointment taking into consideration the individual qualifications and experience of the M Abrahams Non-executive Chairman 6 6 Director.
K Zhevago Chief Executive Officer 6 6 C Mawe Chief Financial Officer 6 6 Performance Evaluation O Baring Senior Independent Non-executive 6 6 A process of evaluation of the Board and its Audit and Remuneration Director Committees has been conducted in 2012 by the Chairmen of these L Genovese Independent Non-executive Director 6 6 bodies.
This is done by the Chairman of the relevant body interviewing W Kuoni Independent Non-executive Director 6 6 his colleagues whilst referring to a questionnaire covering matters I Mitiukov Independent Non-executive Director 6 6 including the balance and diversity of the bodys membership, the M Salamon Non-executive Director 5 6 bodys and its individual members effectiveness and performance in terms of contribution to good governance, and the administration and Audit Committee conduct of the bodys business, and then discussing his findings with Four Audit Committee meetings were held during the year.
The conclusion of the evaluation process was that the Board as a whole and its committees had functioned effectively Attendance during the year, and no particular areas were identified as needing Committee members record improvement.
The mixture of skills and experience on the Board and W Kuoni Chairman 4 4 the committees was felt to be appropriate.
1 O Baring 1 1 L Genovese 4 4 The Boards intention is to hold an  assessment I Mitiukov 4 4 once every three years, in line with the 2010 Code.
The first of these is now in progress and will be reported on in the 2013 Annual Report.
1 Appointed to the Committee in August 2012 The Senior Independent Director and the other Non-executive Directors Under its terms of reference the Audit Committee is required to meet at have evaluated, and will continue to monitor, the performance of the least three times a year at the most appropriate times in the reporting Chairman.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, including its annual and interim reports, Board Committees interim management statements, preliminary results announcements The Board has a number of committees consisting of certain Directors, and any other formal announcement relating to its financial and in the case of the Executive Committee and Corporate Safety and performance, reviewing the significant financial reporting issues and Social Responsibility CSR Committee, certain senior managers, to judgements that they contain.
The Audit Committee is also responsible which specific responsibilities have been delegated and for which for reviewing internal controls and risk management systems, whistlewritten terms of reference have been agreed.
The terms of reference blowing procedures and internal audit processes, and oversees the of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and CSR Committees are relationship with the external auditors.
available for inspection on the Groups website at www.
Membership of the various committees, including the Chairman Remuneration Committee of each committee, is shown below.
Five Remuneration Committee meetings were held during the year.
The Board periodically reviews the membership of its committees Attendance to ensure that committee membership is refreshed.
Committee members record L Genovese Chairman 5 5 In view of the lapse of five years since the IPO it was decided in 2012 1 M Abrahams 4 4 to adjust the composition of some of the committees.
This was done 2 W Kuoni 1 1 in August 2012, when Oliver Baring was appointed as an additional I Mitiukov 5 5 member of the Audit Committee and Wolfram Kuoni replaced O Baring 5 5 Michael Abrahams as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
1 Resigned from the Committee in August 2012 The Group provides the committees with sufficient resources to 2 Appointed to the Committee in August 2012 undertake their duties, including access to the Company Secretary.
The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice a year, as required Tables of attendance of members of the Board and its principal by its terms of reference, and is responsible for reviewing and approving committees at meetings during the financial period together with all aspects of remuneration for the Executive Directors and members of a summary of the terms of reference are set out below.
Further details concerning the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 56.
52 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Nominations Committee CID One Nominations Committee meeting was held during the year.
Five CID meetings were held during the year.
Attendance Attendance Committee members record Committee members record O Baring Chairman 1 1 O Baring Chairman 5 5 M Abrahams 1 1 M Abrahams 5 5 W Kuoni 1 1 L Genovese 5 5 I Mitiukov 1 1 W Kuoni 5 5 K Zhevago 1 1 I Mitiukov 5 5 Nominations Committee Report The CID is composed of the Senior Independent Director Oliver The Nominations Committee meets at least once a year, as required Baring, the Chairman of the Board, and the three other Independent by its terms of reference.
The role of the Nominations Committee is Directors.
The Committee considers and, if appropriate, authorises to identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates on behalf of the Board related party transactions within the terms to fill Board vacancies, having due regard to the need for appropriate of Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority balance and diversity including of gender on the Board.
and otherwise ensures compliance with Chapter 11 and with the Relationship Agreement entered into between Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. No vacancies arose during 2012: however, when seeking to recruit Mr Zhevago, The Minco Trust and the Company.
The CID holds new Board members in future the Committee will have regard to the delegated authority to consider and, if appropriate, authorise recommendations of the Davies Report.
In accordance with the need transactions where there is a risk of a conflict of interest of any member for the non-executive membership of the Board to be refreshed from of the Board under the relevant section of the Companies Act 2006. time to time, the Committee will during 2013 start the search for new directors, with a view to making new appointments and retiring current The Committees terms of reference also cover the oversight of directors from 2014 onwards.
Ferrexpo operates equal-opportunities policies with the aim of The Executive Committee encouraging the employment of women wherever this is reasonable The Executive Committee is a key decision making body of the Group.
and practicable, so that over time women will increase as a proportion Its members are detailed on page 49.
It is responsible for managing of the work force and of the pool from which senior appointments are and taking all material decisions relating to the Group apart from those made.
The Committee will consider the Boards diversity policy in 2013. that are reserved for the entire Board.
It meets regularly during the year.
No meetings are held in the United Kingdom.
It is the responsibility of CSR Committee the Executive Committee to ensure its duties are at all times set in the One CSR Committee meeting was held during the year.
context of the requirements of the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board.
The Board has delegated to the Executive Committee Attendance responsibility for the execution of Board-approved strategies for the Committee members record Group, for ensuring that appropriate levels of authority are delegated to B Maynard Chairman 1 1 senior management, for the review of organisational structures and for M Abrahams 1 1 the development and implementation of Group policies.
V Lotous 1 1 Accountability and Audit K Zhevago 1 1 Financial Reporting The Board is aware of its responsibility to present a balanced and The CSR Committees role is to formulate and recommend to the clear assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects.
Board the Groups policy on corporate safety and social responsibility This assessment is primarily provided in the Chairmans and Chief issues as they affect the Groups operations.
In particular it focuses Executives Statement and the Financial Review contained in this on ensuring that effective systems and standards, procedures and Annual Report.
Statements of the respective responsibilities of the practices are in place in the Group.
The CSR Committee is responsible Directors and auditors are set out on pages 71 and 72. in conjunction with the Executive Committee for reviewing managements investigation of incidents or accidents that occur in Audit Committee Report order to assess whether policy improvements are required.
Further The 2010 Code recommends that all members of the Audit Committee details concerning the activities of the CSR Committee are set out are independent Non-executive Directors, and that at least one in the Corporate Social Responsibility Review on page 40. member should have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee complies with these requirements, and all members of the Audit Committee are considered to possess appropriate knowledge and skills.
Wolfram Kuoni, an independent Non-executive Director, is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee and attendance by members at its meetings are outlined on page 52.
53 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Report continued During the reporting period the Audit Committee met four times, and its As a result of the continual review of internal control procedures, several activities included: key elements have been established within the Group to ensure a Reviewing with Ernst & Young LLP, the external auditors, the annual sound system of internal control which is described in detail below.
and interim financial statements and associated documents and the preliminary results statement, ensuring that all material information These include: was properly and clearly disclosed.
Regular review of risk and identification of key risks at the Executive Reviewing with Ernst & Young LLP the scope of the audit work Committee which are reviewed by the Audit Committee and by the proposed for 2012 and audit fees.
Reviewing the risk matrix at each meeting, and discussing with the Clearly defined organisational and reporting structure and limits of Head of Internal Audit the internal audit plan and the findings of the authority for transaction and investment decisions, including any internal audit reviews conducted during the year.
with related parties, applied to subsidiary companies including FPM Reviewing the Groups internal controls and risk management and FYM, the key Ukrainian subsidiaries, and the Helogistics Group.
Clearly defined information and financial reporting systems, including Reviewing the Groups whistle-blowing arrangements.
regular forecasts and a rigorous annual budgeting process with Reviewing the effectiveness of the external auditors, the quality of reporting against key financial and operational milestones.
their auditing work, their independence and the non-audit services Rigorous investment appraisal underpinned by the budgetary they provided, and considering whether to recommend their process, where capital expenditure limits are applied to delegated reappointment.
An Investment Committee an executive sub-committee meets A statement on the Boards position regarding the Group as a going once or twice a month to approve capital expenditures within limits concern is contained in the Directors Report on page 70. delegated by the Executive Committee and the Board.
The Financial Risk Management Committee FRMC an executive Internal Control and Risk Management sub-committee reviews financial information and management The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal accounts, and meets monthly.
control, which includes risk management and reviewing its Clearly defined treasury policy monitored and applied in accordance effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to identify, with pre-set limits for investment and management of the Groups evaluate and manage significant risks associated with the achievement liquid resources including a separate treasury function.
Because of the limitations inherent in any Internal audit by an in-house internal auditor based in Ukraine see system of internal control, this system is designed to meet the Groups below who monitors, tests and improves internal controls operating particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed, rather than within the Group at all levels and reports directly to the CFO and the eliminate risk altogether.
Consequently it can only provide reasonable Audit Committee.
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A standard accounting manual is used by the finance teams throughout the Group, which ensures that information is gathered The Board has delegated its responsibility for reviewing the and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of effectiveness of these controls to the Audit Committee.
The Audit the consolidated financial statements.
Committee reviews these systems on an annual basis.
The day-to-day A framework of transaction and entity level controls to prevent and responsibility for managing risk and the maintenance of the Groups detect material error and loss.
system of internal control is collectively assumed by the Executive Anti-fraud measures through an independent department operating Committee.
Key risk and control issues are reviewed regularly by the in the Groups key operating subsidiary FPM.
A whistle-blowing policy is in place under which staff may in confidence, via an independent, secure website, raise concerns On behalf of the Board, the Executive Committee has established a about financial or other impropriety.
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
This Treasury process was followed throughout 2012 and up to the date of approval Details of the Group treasury policy are referred to in the Chairmans of this Annual Report.
The Group has also adopted a risk-based and Chief Executive Officers Statement on page 14, the Risks section approach in establishing the Groups system of internal control and in of the Financial Review section on pages 20 to 23 and in the notes to reviewing its effectiveness.
To assist in managing key internal risks, it the financial statements on pages 120 to 128. has established a number of Group-wide procedures, policies and standards and has set up a framework for reporting matters of Investment Proposals significance.
A budgetary process and authorisation levels regulate capital expenditure.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written Full details of the Groups policy on risk and uncertainties are set out in proposals are submitted to the Investment and Executive Committees note 37 to the financial statements on pages 120 to 128.
See also the and then if necessary to the Board for approval.
Risks section of the Financial Review on pages 20 to 23.
The Board has, through the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internalcontrols.
54 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Internal Audit Recommendation on Reappointment of Auditors A Group-wide internal audit function has been established, and The Committee considered whether Ernst & Young who have held operated during 2012 using an experienced internal auditor based in office as auditors since 2007 should be proposed for reappointment Ukraine but independent of operational management, who reported by the shareholders at the 2013 Annual General Meeting, or whether directly to the CFO and the Audit Committee.
the audit should be put out to tender as a matter of policy.
Taking into account their general satisfaction with the auditors and the recent An internal audit programme for 201214, approved by the Audit rotation of audit partners, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Committee, focuses on the areas of risk identified by the risk reviews Board that Ernst & Young should be proposed for reappointment for carried out on an ongoing basis by the Executive Committee and the another year.
Implementation of Requirements of UK Bribery Act 2010 Auditor Independence At the time of the introduction of the Bribery Act in July 2011, and The Audit Committee and Board place great emphasis on the following a thorough risk assessment and the establishment of due independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors, diligence procedures for business counterparties, all employees were Ernst & Young LLP, when performing their role in the Groups reporting informed and given instruction where necessary about the policies to shareholders.
and procedures introduced in order to ensure compliance with the Act which took the form of the Group Policy on Bribery and Corruption.
The effectiveness of the audit process and the overall performance, The Board delegated responsibility for implementing the Policy and independence and objectivity of the auditors are reviewed annually by monitoring its effectiveness to an anti-bribery compliance officer the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management, currently the CFO, who reports to the CID at its meetings and makes and the outcome of this review is relayed to the relevant partners of any recommendations arising from the meetings to the full Board.
The Audit Committee has regular discussions with the external auditors, without management being present.
Relations with Shareholders The Board attaches great importance to effective communication with The Audit Committee has approved separate policies in respect of the shareholders.
Executive Directors and senior executives have frequent provision of non-audit services and employment of former employees discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting of the auditors.
These policies ensure that the external auditors are the Groups performance, which include meetings following the restricted to providing only those services which do not compromise announcement of the annual and interim results.
The CEO, the CFO, their independence.
The policy on the provision of non-audit services and the Head of Investor Relations meet major shareholders to discuss prohibits the use of the auditors for the provision of transaction or performance, strategy and governance, and the Non-executive payroll accounting, outsourcing of internal audit and valuation of Directors are available for discussions with shareholders if required.
Any assignment that is proposed to be given to the auditors above a value of US$500,000 must first be J. P. Morgan Cazenove, the Groups brokers, also provide regular approved by the Audit Committee or its Chairman.
The auditors are reports to the Board on changes to the shareholdings of the Groups also expected to provide to the Audit Committee information about major investors.
Information about the views of major investors is policies and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring provided to the Board on a regular basis by the CEO, the CFO and compliance with relevant current requirements, including those the Head of Investor Relations.
regarding the rotation of audit partners and staff, the level of fees that the Group pays in proportion to the overall fee income of the firm, The Board uses the Annual General Meeting AGM each year to and other regulatory requirements.
The Committee reviewed these communicate with shareholders and welcomes their participation.
The arrangements during the year and believes that they are still Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees appropriate.
endeavour to be present at the AGMs to answer questions from shareholders.
Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to Fees for audit-related and non-audit-related services performed by the shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The voting external auditors are shown in note 9 to the financial statements on results of the AGM are available on the Companys website following page 94. the meeting.
Information on matters of interest to investors can be found on the Groups website at www.
The Board approved this report on 12 March 2013.
