Fidessa group plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Compliance with Combined Code Fidessa is committed to high standards of corporate governance and is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
In respect of the year ended 31st December 2012 the Company has complied with the requirements of the Code.
Share capital Details of the called-up and fully paid share capital of the Company are set out in the notes to the financial statements.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares and the powers of the directors are set out in the Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the Companys shares and no person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by the Articles of Association of the Company and the Nominations Committees Terms of Reference.
Principal shareholders The following have disclosed to the Company that they have an interest in 3% or more of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
As at 8th February 2013, the last holding disclosed to the Company is below.
Percentage of issued Ordinary 10p shares share capital Lindsell Train Limited 3,669,031 9.9% Kames Capital 2,917,504 7.9% Prudential plc group of companies 2,750,600 7.4% The Capital Group Companies, Inc 2,291,000 6.2% BlackRock, Inc. 2,239,395 6.0% Ameriprise Financial, Inc and its group 1,784,888 4.8% Legal & General Group plc 1,425,065 3.8% FMR LLC 1,243,151 3.3% DA Taylor 1,153,049 3.1% Significant agreements change of control The only significant agreements with change of control provisions are the Companys share plans.
Under the CSOP, SBP, DABP, MSPP and SIP share incentive plans, on a change of control of the Company, options and awards would vest in full subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at the time.
Part of the EGRIP and PSP awards would also vest subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at the time but these would be pro-rated.
The Company does not have agreements with any director that would provide compensation for loss of office resulting from a takeover.
Fidessa group plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report continued Authority to purchase own shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 24th April 2012 shareholders approved a general authority for the Company to re-purchase up to 3,697,500 ordinary shares in the market.
This represented approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at the time.
No purchase of shares has been made pursuant to this authority.
There is no present intention to use such authority, but the directors consider it desirable that the possibility of making such purchases under appropriate circumstances remains available.
A similar authority will be requested at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, again limited to a maximum of 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
The Board intends only to exercise this authority if it believes that it will lead to an increase in earnings per share for the remaining shareholders.
The Board The Company is controlled through the Board, which at 31st December 2012 comprised the Chairman, two executive directors and four non-executive directors whose Board and Committee responsibilities are set out in the table below: Board Audit Remuneration Nominations John Hamer Chairman Chairman Chairman Chris Aspinwall Chief Executive Member Andy Malpass Finance Director Member Ron Mackintosh Senior Independent Member Member Chairman Member Non-Executive Director Philip Hardaker Independent Member Chairman Member Member Non-Executive Director Elizabeth Lake Independent Member Member Member Member Non-Executive Director Mark Foster Independent Member Member Member Non-Executive Director As announced on 23rd October 2012, the Board appointed Mark Foster as an independent non-executive director.
The Company notes that Ron Mackintosh will have served nine years as a non-executive director of the Company in June 2013.
It is the Boards current intention that Ron will continue to serve as a non-executive director after that date.
After formal review the Board has concluded that Ron Mackintosh, Philip Hardaker, Elizabeth Lake and Mark Foster are independent.
In coming to this opinion the Board considered the character and judgement of the individuals concerned and the fact that they: $ 2!
0$ 0 Mackintosh will have served nine years on the Board in June 2013, however his valuable detailed understanding of the business together with his fair and transparent involvement in Board discussions confirmed to the Board that he remains independent within the definition of the Code.
Fidessa group plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Board meets formally on a regular basis to monitor risk and trading performance, to review forecasts, strategy and policy, to consider key projects and major investments and to oversee appropriate shareholder reporting.
During 2012 the Board met on 11 scheduled occasions for this purpose.
In addition, if required, impromptu Board meetings occur to consider specific issues as and when necessary.
Additionally, meetings were held by the Chairman with the nonexecutive directors without the executive directors present to discuss the performance of management.
The attendance of individual directors at Board meetings and Committee meetings is presented in the table below: Board meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended John Hamer 10 11 3 3 Chris Aspinwall 11 11 Andy Malpass 11 11 Ron Mackintosh 10 11 4 4 3 3 3 3 Philip Hardaker 10 11 4 4 3 3 3 3 Elizabeth Lake 11 11 4 4 3 3 3 3 Mark Foster since October 2012 2 3 1 1 0 1 The Board is responsible for the Groups system of corporate governance and delegates operational control to the executive directors.
At each Board meeting it considers strategic issues, finance, business development, governance and risks facing the business.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board that covers key areas of the Groups affairs.
The schedule includes approval of the Annual Report and any other financial statements, the adoption of the Groups budgets or business plans, decisions on acquisitions and disposals, material financial commitments and the release of inside information.
Certain matters require Board approval and other matters may be approved by senior management, but notification to the Board is required.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed annually.
A procedure exists to allow the directors to seek independent legal advice in respect of their duties at the Companys expense where the circumstances are appropriate.
No such advice was sought by any director during the year.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary for his advice and services.
Performance evaluation Each year the Board participates in a formal evaluation of its performance.
In accordance with the Codes requirements, the 2012 Board evaluation was undertaken by an independent external facilitator, David Mensley of EquityCommunications Ltd.
This consisted of an externally run review conducted by way of a performance evaluation questionnaire.
The questionnaire was prepared by the independent external facilitator based on the Code process and it covered the areas of Board structure, effectiveness, Committees, information and communication.
Questionnaires were completed by the directors and Company Secretary and submitted to the independent external facilitator.
The report prepared by the independent external facilitator was discussed by the Board together with potential improvements that could be made.
The conclusion was reached that the Board is operating effectively.
A review of the Chairman by the non-executive directors without the executives present was also carried out.
There is a formal written policy on the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive such that their roles are complementary to each other.
John Hamer as the Chairman is principally responsible for leading the Board, promoting constructive debate amongst the Board and facilitating communication with shareholders as well as overseeing strategy.
Chris Aspinwall as the Chief Executive is responsible for all aspects of the operation of the Groups business, he leads and develops the strategy plans for the business and identifies risk factors.
Fidessa group plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report continued Training and professional development All directors undergo a full, formal and tailored induction process on joining the Company and, following regular reviews of training and development requirements by the Chairman, receive ongoing updates to improve their skills and knowledge according to their personal and external needs.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board and updating it on governance and regulatory matters.
Conflicts of interest Under the Companies Act 2006 a statutory duty on directors to avoid conflicts of interest came into effect from 1st October 2008.
The Companys Articles of Association allow the directors to consider and if they deem fit to authorise conflicts of interest.
The Articles of Association set out the process for authorisation of such conflicts and any such conflicts will be recorded in the Board minutes and maintained on a register which will be reviewed on an annual basis by the Nominations Committee and by the Board.
Committees of the Board In addition to the Remuneration Committee, the details of which are in the Directors Remuneration Report, the Audit and Nominations Committees deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs and their terms of reference can be found on the Companys website: www.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Philip Hardaker who, in line with the Code, has recent and relevant financial experience as a former partner of KPMG and through his other current and recent appointments.
In addition to Philip, the Committee comprises Ron Mackintosh, Elizabeth Lake and, from October 2012, Mark Foster: the Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee has met four times with the independent external auditor during the year.
The Chairman and executive directors were invited to attend for part of these meetings.
The Committee reviews the interim and annual reports produced by the Group every year.
It considers and discusses with the external auditor any reports produced by them and checks the external auditors scope and representation letters in respect of the audit and any reviews undertaken by them.
During 2012 the Committee met to discuss the following items of business: 0$!!40!.
In each case, no significant issues were raised.
The Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board the appointment of an external auditor and for agreeing the auditors remuneration and for monitoring the overall effectiveness of the external audit process.
Fidessa group plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Committee acknowledges the revised Code published in September 2012 and the requirement that audit services contracts are put out to tender at least once every 10 years.
The current audit engagement partner at KPMG was appointed in 2012 following the scheduled rotation and will be required to stand down no later than the end of the Annual General Meeting in 2017.
Accordingly, and in line with the transitional arrangements published by the Financial Reporting Council on its website, the Committee recommended to the Board that the tendering of the external audit services contract should be either at the next rotation of audit engagement partner or earlier, if appropriate circumstances arise.
The Committee continues to review on an annual basis the performance, expertise and independence of the external auditor and maintains appropriate contact with potential alternative suppliers for audit and accountancy advisory services.
In addition, the Board receives written confirmation from the auditor of any relationships they have which may cause a conflict of interest, together with a declaration from them that they consider themselves to be independent.
The Board has approved the auditor undertaking certain other limited activities for the Group but any assignment outside these activities requires separate Board approval.
Following its review, the Board is satisfied that independence has been maintained and it is satisfied that it is appropriate to continue with the reappointment of KPMG as the Companys auditor.
For details of the auditors fees, please refer to the notes to the financial statements.
The Committee reviews the terms of reference, programme, scope of work and reports of the internal audit function.
The Committee focuses the activity of the function on those areas where it considers there to be the greatest potential risks.
The Company engages an external consultant, who reports directly to the Audit Committee to conduct the internal audits of the Groups operations.
The Audit Committee has considered the independence of the internal audit function and is satisfied that independence has been maintained.
The Audit Committee also reviews annually the environmental report, the overall results of ISO 9001:2000 TickIT compliance and the results of independent ISAE 3402 SSAE 16 audits.
Nominations Committee and diversity The Nominations Committee, which is chaired by John Hamer, comprises John Hamer, Philip Hardaker, Ron Mackintosh and Elizabeth Lake and is therefore compliant with the requirements of the Code.
Its role is to review the structure of the Board and to agree succession planning as set out in the Nominations Committees terms of reference.
The procedure for new appointments incorporates the use of independent recruitment consultants where appropriate.
The appointment of Mark Foster was facilitated by the use of independent recruitment consultants, Russell Reynolds Associates.
During the year, the Nominations Committee discussed the recommendations made by Lord Davies.
While the Nominations Committee considered diversity, including gender diversity, to be important when reviewing the composition of the Board and possible new appointees, it concluded that the single most important factor is to identify and recruit people based on merit.
The Nominations Committee also noted that achieving gender diversity in certain sectors, including the technology sector, presents particular challenges when considering the profile of the available talent pool in those sectors.
Accordingly, the Nominations Committee informed the Board that it is not currently in favour of setting specific targets for Board representation to be achieved by particular dates.
The Nominations Committee will, however, ensure that independent recruitment consultants are required to observe Lord Davies recommendations when considering new appointments to the Board.
Fidessa group plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report continued Currently there is one female on the Board, as at the date of publication of this Annual Report, representing 14% of Board membership.
Dialogue with shareholders The Company values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interests in the Companys strategy and performance.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director hold briefing meetings with analysts and institutional shareholders, primarily following the announcement of interim and preliminary results but also at other times during the year as may be suitable.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director provide feedback to the Board from meetings with shareholders.
The Board also obtains formal feedback on the Group and management from analysts and institutional shareholders through the Companys PR adviser and financial advisers.
Communication with private investors is through the Annual Report and the Annual General Meeting.
Financial and other information is made available on the Companys website, www.
com, which is regularly updated.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director also meet with major shareholders as and when there is a requirement to do so.
Going concern The Groups business activities and position in its market are described in the Overview and Market Review.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Finance Review.
In addition, the notes to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
Having reviewed the future plans and projections for the business and its current financial position, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the ongoing economic uncertainties.
The Group has considerable financial resources, no borrowings, a high level of recurring revenue and a very broad spread of customers.
As a consequence of these factors and having reviewed the forecasts for the coming year, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the date of this report.
For this reason, it continues to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Internal control The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Code requires that directors review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, including those of an operational and compliance nature, as well as internal financial controls.
The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks and that this has been in place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The Group has established control processes and procedures to be compliant with the best practice governance provisions.
The Boards agenda includes a regular item for consideration of risk and control, and any actions that may be considered necessary, and it receives reports thereon from the executive directors.
Business unit performance and internal control are monitored by regular Operating Board meetings.
Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of business together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources including competition, Fidessa group plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 control breakdowns, disruption in information systems, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
A process of control assessment and reporting is established and defined in Fidessa plcs Quality Management System.
This system is independently audited on a regular basis and was successfully audited to ISO 9001:2000 TickIT twice in 2012.
The UK and US operations also successfully completed the ISAE 3402 SSAE 16 audits during the year.
The directors believe these audits are particularly important to the Groups customers in enabling them to satisfy their Sarbanes-Oxley requirements when using a Fidessa solution.
The treasury function operates within guidelines established by the Board.
A comprehensive budgetary process is completed once a year and is reviewed and approved by the Board.
An updated forecast is regularly prepared throughout the year.
The operating results are reported monthly to the Board and compared to the budget and latest forecast as appropriate.
The Company presents financial statements to its shareholders twice a year.
For details of the Groups financial risk and policies together with its policy with regard to the use of financial instruments, please refer to the Finance Review section of this Directors Report and in the notes to the financial statements.
Directors responsibilities statement in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give sa true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the directors are required to: !
1, and the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Fidessa group plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report continued The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 0$!
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and 0$!
"0$!, %0% "" the Company and its subsidiaries included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face."
On behalf of the Board Andy Malpass Director 8th February 2013
