Corporate governance We as a Board support Lord Davies aim to raise the proportion of women on UK boards.
However, we consider that diversity across a wider range of areas should be taken into account and that appointments to the Board should be made relative to a number of different criteria, including gender, background skill set, experience and expertise.
We will continue to ensure that we have the right mix of capability and experience to deliver and drive the business forward and, during the year, we reviewed and updated our succession planning framework across all divisions, to ensure that strong internal candidates areavailable when required.
Martin Gilbert During the year, Audrey Baxter stepped down from the Board and was Chairman replaced as the Chairman of our Remuneration Committee by David Begg.
David will draw on his previous experience of remuneration issues including Dear shareholder asChairman of Tube Lines Limited, where he oversaw executive remuneration.
The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance In addition, Davids links and experience of working with local and central in respect of leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration government make him well placed to ensure that, as a major contractor to and relations with shareholders as identified by the UK Corporate Government, the Board understands their views on executive remuneration.
We recognise the importance of good governance David will also work with external advisers, where appropriate, on best practice inthe performance of the business.
In this section of the report we in this area to assist the Committee going forward.
Since his appointment, providedetails of our governance structures and processes together David has already begun to engage with some of our largest shareholders withthe actions weare taking to enhance governance within the Group.
His review follows later in this report.
Remuneration We are particularly proud of the role played by our Group Employee As previously indicated, 2012 13 will be a challenging year of transition for the Directors.
Mick Barker was appointed in January this year and took over from Group.
The Remuneration Committee has decided that no salary increases MartynWilliams, who served on the Board for nine years.
We believe that the will be paid to the Executive Directors or senior management for the coming presence of an Employee Director on our Board is invaluable it keeps the year and the Chief Executive has decided to waive his bonus for 2011 12.
Board in touch with our front line employees and we find it to be a positive Whilst my fees were increased to 225,000 for 2011 12, I decided not to take benefit in the running of our Company.
In addition to sitting on our main Board, that increase.
Mick is invited to attend meetings of the Nomination, Remuneration and Board composition AuditCommittees.
As mentioned above, the Board is reviewing its composition and a formal Board evaluation international search process is under way to recruit additional fully independent We carried out a detailed internal evaluation of the Board this year which did Non-Executive Directors to further strengthen the Board and support the not highlight any significant issues but I am pleased to report that we have Group through this important stage of its development.
In addition, we appointed Independent Board Evaluation to carry out an evaluation of our are pleased to have announced the appointment of Chris Surch as Group Board later this year.
Their evaluation team will observe the Board in action in FinanceDirector and we are confident that these appointments will result October and each member will participate in a detailed interview and review.
inarefreshed Board with strength and depth and an appropriate balance Benchmarking data and reports will then be provided to me and the rest of the of skills and experience.
In order that all new Board members are integrated Board which will be discussed at our following meetings.
The outcome will be quickly and efficiently into the Board and we are able to benefit fromtheir reported on in our next Annual Report.
knowledge and expertise, they will receive a full induction, including visits tothe Groupsoperations.
Martin Gilbert Chairman 46 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements The Company applies all of the main and supporting principles of good The Chairman is responsible for: governance set out in section 1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 the Code.
role and setting its agenda, taking into account the issues relevant to the The Board Group and the concerns of all Board members Structure and responsibilities ensuring, with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, the provision The Board currently consists of the Chairman, one Executive Director of accurate, timely and clear information to the Board and four Non-Executive Directors.
The Acting Finance Director is not a member of the Board but has attended all meetings since taking on the ensuring effective communication with shareholders and that the Board role.
The Board meets at least nine times each year and is responsible for develops an understanding of the views of major investors setting and reviewing the Companys strategy and objectives, reviewing managing the Board, ensuring that sufficient time is allowed for the the financial and operational performance of each of the Groups business discussion of complex or contentious issues units, agreeing and reviewing progress against the Groups annual budgets and setting and reviewing on a regular basis its longer term business ensuring a regular evaluation of the performance of the Board as a whole, plans.
It also has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it including its Committees and individual Directors approval of the half-year and full-year financial statements, financing taking the lead in identifying and meeting the development needs of arrangements, material capital commitments, business acquisitions and individual Directors and the Board as a whole, with a view to enhancing disposals, relationships with regulatory authorities and operating and the overall effectiveness of the team accounting policies.
facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and During the year, the Board met nine times seven times in the UK and twice ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive in the US and all members attended whilst they were Directors with the Directors exception of Sidney Barrie who was absent from one meeting.
ensuring, with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, that new On 11 November 2011 Jeff Carr, Finance Director, resigned from the Directors receive a comprehensive induction programme to ensure their Board.
On 31 December 2011 Audrey Baxter, Non-Executive Director, early contribution to the Board resigned from the Board.
Also on that date, Martyn Williams, having served a maximum of three, three-year terms as Group Employee Director, encouraging active engagement by all members of the Board.
The Board is of the opinion, reinforced by the performance evaluation On 1 January 2012 Mick Barker was appointed to the Board as the new review referred to below, that Martin Gilberts significant and in-depth Group Employee Director.
knowledge and experience of the Groups business, combined with his external diverse business experience, enables him to provide effective On 31 March 2012 Sidney Barrie, Commercial Director, having previously leadership of the Board and to continue to make a positive contribution announced his intention to retire, resigned from the Board.
0n 14 May 2012 the Company announced that Chris Surch The Chairmans other significant business commitments are described will join the Board as Group Finance Director with effect from in his biography on page 45.
The Board performance evaluation process 1 September 2012. referred to below confirmed that the other Board members are satisfied Balance and independence that Martin Gilbert has the necessary time available to devote to the In considering Director independence the Board has taken into account proper performance of his duties as Chairman and remains an effective the guidance provided by the Code.
The Board, having given thorough leader of the Board, encouraging active engagement and promoting open consideration to the matter, considers that David Begg and Colin Hood communication between the Non-Executive Directors and Executive team.
Whilst John Sievwright, our Senior Independent Director, The Chief Executive has served on the Board for over nine years, the Board has reviewed his The Chief Executive is Tim OToole.
He also has a written statement record and contribution and consider him to remain independent within the of responsibilities which has been approved by the Board.
Mick Barker is an employee of one of the Groups subsidiaries and therefore he cannot be considered to be independent.
The Chief Executive is responsible for: However, the Board considers that it is beneficial for its employees to be running the day-to-day business of the Group, within the authorities represented on the Board in this way as it enables important employeedelegated to him by the Board related issues to be raised at the highest level and allows for two-way communication between management and employees.
ensuring implementation across the Group of the policies and strategy set by the Board for the Group Therefore, the Company complies with the Code provision that at least one half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, is made up of Nonday-to-day management of the executive and senior management team Executive Directors who are considered by the Board to be independent.
leading the development of senior management within the Group with The Directors are satisfied that the Board including, for this purpose, the theaim of assisting the training and development of suitable individuals Acting Finance Director, possesses the breadth of business, financial and for future Director roles international experience necessary to manage effectively an organisation ofthe size and complexity of the Group.
ensuring that the Chairman is kept appraised in a timely manner of the issues facing the Group and of any important events and developments Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The Chairman leading the development of the Groups future strategy including The Chairman of the Board is Martin Gilbert.
He has a written statement identifying and assessing opportunities for the growth of its business ofresponsibilities which has been approved by the Board.
andreviewing the performance of its existing businesses.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47 Corporate governance continued Remuneration committee Nominations First Group plc Committee Board Audit Committee Executive Safety Risk Group Committee Executive Amercan Safety Management Board Committee Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointment of Non-Executive Directors John Sievwright, who chairs the Audit Committee, is the Senior Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board for an initial term of Independent Non-Executive Director.
He is available to shareholders if they three years, subject to re-appointment by shareholders.
They have letters CSR External Amercan have concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman, of ap Ap do vis in otm ry G e ro nu tp which are a M vaa nia la ge bm le e n o t n B o re arq duest for inspection.
Chief Executive or Finance Director or Acting Finance Director has failed Directors and Officers liability insurance CSR internal & external to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
assurance providers The Company maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance cover North Amercan CSR Working Group Information and professional development of Board members throughout the year as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
The cover The Board receives detailed papers on the business to be conducted was renewed on 1 April 2012. at each meeting well in advance and individual Board members have Committees of the Board direct access to senior executives should they wish to receive additional information on any of the items for discussion.
The head of each operating Shareholders division attends Board meetings on a regular basis to ensure that the Board is properly informed about the performance of and current issues facing that division.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, if necessary, can seek independent Board professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance matters and for ensuring compliance with Boardprocedures.
Executive Nomination Remuneration Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee Directors receive induction on appointment to the Board, which is tailored to their individual needs.
This includes meetings with senior management and relevant external advisers.
In addition, information is provided on their Executive Safety Executive Risk responsibilities and obligations under law, regulation and best practice Committee Management Board Group guidelines.
The induction process is supported during the year by the programme of business presentations described above.
The Board has established three committees, the Audit, Remuneration The Board also receives updates, as required, on changes to the law and and Nomination Committees.
The Chairmen and members of these the regulatory regimes affecting the Group.
committees are appointed by the Board on the recommendation where appropriate of the Nomination Committee and in consultation with each During the year Mick Barker received a comprehensive induction to his relevant Committee Chairman.
new role as Group Employee Director.
As an Employee Director he already had a good understanding of the business having visited sites in the UK Nomination Committee and US.
He also accompanied the outgoing Group Employee Director on The primary role of the Nomination Committee is to lead the process further site visits.
He had meetings with the Company Secretary, advisers for Board appointments and make recommendations to the Board.
and management from all divisions of the business and was also provided During the year the Committee met four times to discuss progress on the with documentation to ensure that he had a firm understanding of the various Board appointments and all members of the Committee attended Companys operations and key risks and issues.
each meeting held whilst they were Directors.
Since the end of the year, the Committee has considered and recommended to the Board the Performance evaluation appointment of the new Group Finance Director and has also considered As mentioned in the Chairmans letter, the Board undertook an internal the appointment of two additional Non-Executive Directors.
evaluation of its performance during the course of the year.
The Chairman led the process, assisted by the Company Secretary.
The objectives of The Nomination Committee is chaired by Martin Gilbert and includes David this exercise were to ensure that the Board, its Committees and each Begg, Colin Hood and John Sievwright.
Audrey Baxter was a member until individual Director continued to act effectively and to fulfil the duties and her resignation on 31 December 2011.
Tim OToole attends meetings of the responsibilities expected of them and to identify any additional training Committee at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
A tailored questionnaire was developed to address four key Employee Director attends such meetings at the invitation of the Chairman areas: role, people, procedures & practices and behaviours, which each of the Committee to represent the Groups employees.
In parallel, the Senior Independent Non-Executive meets as required to consider appointments to the Board of both Executive Director led a process of evaluation of the performance of the Chairman.
Its recommendations are then put to the full The responses were analysed and discussed at a meeting of the Board.
External search consultants are used to assist the No significant issues were identified in the course of the evaluation process, where appropriate.
Nonetheless, the Board considers it appropriate to undergo The Employee Director is elected by the Employee Directors forum, which an external board evaluation in 2012 13 and has appointed Independent comprises the Employee Directors of the Companys UK subsidiaries, and Board Evaluation to carry out that evaluation later this year.
The outcome serves a maximum of three, three-year terms.
will be reported on in our next Annual Report.
The Companys policy is to permit Executive Directors to accept a limited Re-election of Directors number of outside non-executive directorships, recognising that this is an All the Directors are offering themselves for re-election in accordance with effective way to broaden their knowledge and expertise.
However, the provisions of the Code at the Annual General Meeting to be held on no such appointment can be taken up without prior Board approval.
48 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements The Companys policy on fees relating to such outside directorships is set The Committee reviews with management a detailed analysis of the out in the Directors remuneration report on page 54.
Groups financial information prior to completion and announcement of the half-year and full-year results and receives a report from the external The terms of reference of the Committee were updated and adopted in auditors on the audit process.
If necessary, the external auditors also meet September 2011 and are available on request and are also published on separately with the Committee and or the Chairman, Chief Executive and the Companys website.
Finance Director Acting Finance Director.
The Annual Report and Accounts Audit Committee and half-yearly Financial Report go through a detailed verification and due The key role of the Audit Committee is to provide oversight and diligence process involving external advisers.
reassurance to the Board as to the integrity and effectiveness of the The Committee may request the Executive Directors and any other officers Groups risk and financial reporting and internal control systems and to of the Group to attend its meetings but none has the right of attendance.
monitor and review the activities and performance of the internal and Committee meetings may be requested by the external or internal auditors external auditors.
It also monitors the consistent application of accounting if they consider it necessary.
policies by the Group, reviews the Groups half and full-year financial statements before they are considered and approved by the Board and The terms of reference of the Committee were updated and adopted in monitors compliance with the Code and relatedguidance.
September 2011 and are available on request and are also published on the Companys website.
In addition to its normal functions, during the year, the Committee kept under specific review the provision made following the Boards decision Remuneration Committee not to take up the option to extend the First Great Western rail franchise The key role of the Remuneration Committee is to set the remuneration agreement, the First Student recovery plan and First Transit contract of the Groups Executive Directors and the Chairman and to monitor the provision reported on in the Finance Directors review last year.
In addition, level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
It met nine the Committee re-assessed its terms of reference in the light of the Code times during the year and all members of the Committee attended all of and reviewed the Group Risk Register.
The Committee also considered its meetings held whilst they were Directors with the exception of David the implications of changes in applicable accounting standards.
The Begg who was absent from one meeting.
Details of the membership of the Audit Committee is chaired by John Sievwright and includes David Committee are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 52 Begg and ColinHood and included Audrey Baxter until she resigned on to 57, together with a statement of the Groups remuneration strategy and 31 December 2011.
It met four times during the year and all members policy.
Full details of Directors remuneration appear on page 55. attended each meeting held whilst they were Directors.
TheGroup Director The Board has also delegated certain matters to: of Internal Audit and the Companys external auditors attended all of these meetings.
Executive Directors and other senior managers attended where Executive Committee requested and asappropriate.
The Executive Committee comprises the Executive Directors and meets on an ad hoc basis to consider matters which arise in the ordinary course The Board considers that each member of the Committee has sufficient of the Groups operations.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive and has and recent financial experience to enable the Committee to discharge its specific delegated powers within prescribed limits to deal with matters functions effectively.
arising in the ordinary course of business which need to be considered Each year, the Committee and the Board approves an annual audit plan before the next scheduled Board meeting.
for the internal audit department focusing on areas of priority as identified Executive Management Board EMB by risk analysis and progress against that plan and the outcome of the The EMB, which comprises the Executive Directors and certain senior internal auditors work is monitored, reports are sent to senior executives of business managers, is chaired by the Chief Executive.
It acts as a general the Group and subsidiary units, and there is a follow-up process to ensure operating management committee and meets on a monthly basis to review that actions to resolve identified control weaknesses are implemented.
outstanding issues and to consider the Groups operational and financial The Group Director of Internal Audit has the right of direct access to the performance.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Executive Safety Committee ESC The Committee is also responsible for making recommendations to the The ESC is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets on a monthly Board in respect of the appointment or re-appointment of the Groups basis.
It comprises the Divisional Heads of each of the businesses, other external auditors and recommends to the Board the audit fee to be Group Directors and Group Safety Director.
The ESC reviews the Groups paid to the external auditors.
The Boards decision on these matters is safety performance and practices, approves Group safety policies and subject to the approval of shareholders.
The independence, objectivity procedures and follows up on outstanding issues.
During the year a and effectiveness of the external auditors have been examined by number of meetings were attended by independent safety experts and the Committee and discussions were held regarding their terms of senior representatives of relevant industry bodies, including the Office engagement, remuneration and proposal for partner rotation.
The of Rail Regulation ORR, the Health and Safety Executive HSE, the Rail appointment of Senior Statutory Auditor is rotated every five years.
Accident Investigation Branch RAIB, Network Rail and the Rail Safety and Deloitte LLP was originally appointed in 1999.
The majority of non-audit work is put out to tender, with the exception of Risk Group due diligence work on acquisitions or potential acquisitions in both the UK Each Division has a designated risk champion who is responsible for and overseas, where the current auditors knowledge of the Companys maintaining a risk register for that Division.
These risk registers are used business processes and controls means that they are usually best placed to compile a Group Risk Register, which is kept under review by the Risk to undertake this work cost-effectively on the Companys behalf.
Details of Group, which is made up of members of the senior management team and the audit and non-audit fees, including a breakdown of the non-audit fees, the Divisional risk champions.
The Risk Group meets on a quarterly basis.
are set out in note 6 to the financial statements.
The Committee concluded Further details can be found under the Internal Controls section on page 50. that the nature and extent of the non-audit fees did not compromise auditindependence.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49 Corporate governance continued Financial reporting The Group has a defined divisional organisational structure with lines of The Directors have a commitment to best practice in the Groups external authority and delegated responsibility which allows the Board to plan, financial reporting in order to present a balanced and comprehensible execute, control and monitor the business in a manner consistent with the assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects to its Groups objectives.
The day-to-day business management is delegated to shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and other third parties.
the Executive Directors and subsidiary unit managing directors under the This commitment encompasses all published information including, but overall direction of the Chief Executive.
As noted above, the Board reserves not limited to, the year-end and half-yearly financial statements, regulatory to itself a number of specific items, which ensures that it retains control news announcements and other public information.
A statement of the over key business decisions and significant transactions in terms of size, Directors responsibilities for preparing the financial statements may be type or risk.
A number of the Groups key functions, including treasury, found on page 61. taxation, insurance, corporate finance, legal, corporate communications and procurement are dealt with centrally.
Each of these functions is Internal controls monitored by an Executive Director.
The Board has established procedures to provide an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by the Monitoring Group and to meet the requirements of the Code and its related guidance The Group adopts a financial reporting and information system which on internal controls.
These procedures are subject to regular review.
complies with generally accepted accounting practice.
The Group Finance Manual, circulated by the Group Finance function to all subsidiaries, details Responsibility and Risk the Groups accounting policies and procedures with which subsidiaries The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and must comply.
Budgets are prepared by subsidiary company management assessing risk.
The responsibility for establishing detailed control and risk and are subject to review by both Group management and the Executive management procedures within each subsidiary lies with the Executive Directors followed by formal approval at the Board.
Regular forecast Directors and divisional managing directors.
A sound system of internal updates are completed during the year and compared against actions control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to required.
Each subsidiary unit prepares a monthly report of operating achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not performance, with a commentary on variances against budget and prior absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Similar reports are prepared at a Group level.
Key performance The Board has continued to strengthen the ongoing process for identifying, indicators, both financial and operational, are monitored on a weekly basis.
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
As In addition, business units participate in strategic reviews which include part of this process a Risk Group, comprising senior management consideration of long term financial projections and the evaluation of representatives from all of the Groups main businesses as well as from the business alternatives.
finance, treasury, legal, insurance and internal audit functions, reviews the Throughout the year internal audit conduct a comprehensive programme significant risks facing the Group.
The Risk Group meets at least four times of reviews of internal controls within the operating units.
These reviews annually and reports to the Board with the express purpose of reviewing invariably bring to light a number of minor control weaknesses.
These are the risk and control procedures in each of the business areas and support discussed with management and remedial action plans are agreed.
As an integral part of planning and review, management from appropriate, follow-up visits to the operating entity then confirm that the each of the business areas and support functions identify the risks facing action plans have been completed and that the controls that have been their operations, as well as the controls in place to mitigate those risks.
put in place are working effectively.
No material losses, contingencies or Theprobability of risks occurring as well as the likely impact on the Groups uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Groups Annual Report business, should the risks occur, are also assessed and documented.
and Accounts have resulted from this process.
These risks are assessed on a regular basis, taking into account changes in both external and internal circumstances, which may include alterations Whistleblowing to regulatory requirements, disruption to information systems, industrial The Group has well established procedures whereby employees may, relation issues, control breakdowns, as well as changes in the economic in confidence, raise concerns relating to personal issues, potential fraud, climate and social, ethical and environmental issues.
As a result of the health and safety, harassment, discrimination, security or any other matter.
reports submitted to it by the Risk Group, the Board is able to keep under The confidential hotline covers all businesses across the Group and each regular review the major risks and mitigating controls facing the Group.
country in which it operates.
Atable of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group is on The Group is confident that these whistleblowing arrangements are pages 39 to 41. satisfactory and enable proportionate and independent investigation of Control environment such matters and appropriate follow-up action to be taken.
The Board is committed to business integrity, high ethical and moral values Review of effectiveness of financial controls and professionalism in all its activities, principles with which all managers The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the and employees are required to comply.
The Group has a Code of Business system of internal controls for the year under review and to the date of Ethics, which is part of the Groups Corporate Responsibility Policy and a approval of the Annual Report and Accounts through the monitoring copy of this is available on the Companys website.
In addition, the Directors confirm that they In addition, the Board has effective controls in place including an have kept under regular review the effectiveness of the Groups internal anti-bribery policy to address the requirements of relevant anti-corruption audit function.
legislation including the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the US Foreign Corrupt Treasury operations Practices Act.
Internal Audit maintains a Group Hospitality and Gifts The Board has set a policy for the management of the risks from treasury Register which records all hospitality or gifts, the value of which exceeds operations and this is set out in more detail in note 25 to the financial a fide minimis amount, given or received by all Board and EMB members.
A Group Treasury Policy has been formulated and adopted to Additional Hospitality and Gift Registers are also maintained at the ensure compliance with best practice and to control and monitor effectively divisional level, ensuring that all senior management in the Group are the risks attendant upon treasury and banking operations.
required to disclose hospitality or gifts given or received.
50 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Currency exchange rate fluctuation and exposure terms of the track access agreements.
The Groups railway operators also The Groups principal operations are in the UK, the US and Canada and lease rolling stock from specialist rolling stock leasing companies such as are therefore subject to currency fluctuations, both in terms of its trading Eversholt Rail Group, Porterbrook Leasing Company Limited and Angel activities and the translation of its financial statements.
The Group currently Trains Limited.
A material number of the individual leasing agreements has a significant natural hedge arising from Dollar denominated earnings include change of control provisions.
in the US businesses offset by Dollar denominated interest costs and fuel c Joint venture agreements costs in its UK businesses.
The Company has joint venture agreements with Keolis UK Limited in Significant agreements change of control relation to First TransPennine Express and with DSB in relation to DSB First a Financing agreements Aps and DSB Sverige AB.
As is customary, these joint venture agreements The Group has a US$1,250m multi-currency revolving credit and guarantee include provisions addressing change of control.
facility between, amongst others, the Company and The Royal Bank of d London bus contracts Scotland plc dated 9 December 2010.
This financing agreement contains The Groups UK Bus business operates London bus routes with provisions entitling the lenders to exercise termination or other rights in London Bus Services Limited.
These agreements include change the event of a change of control of the Company.
Following any change of control provisions which are significant when all the routes are of control of the Company, the majority of the lenders are obliged to considered together.
negotiate with the Company with a view to resolving any concerns arising from such change of control and, if the matter has not been resolved to Auditors the reasonable satisfaction of the majority of the lenders in that time, then, Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as if the majority of the lenders so require, the agent must cancel the total auditors and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the commitments under the facility and require prepayment of all outstanding forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Companys bilateral financing agreements contain similar Relations with shareholders provisions such that, following a change of control of the Company, the The Group recognises the importance of regular communication with its banks are required to negotiate with the Company with a view to resolving shareholders.
The Annual Report and Accounts and a Half-yearly Report any concerns arising from such change of control and, if the matter has not are made available to all shareholders.
These reports are intended to been resolved to the reasonable satisfaction of the banks in that time, they provide a clear and balanced understanding of the Groups operational may if they so require cancel the total commitments under the facilities performance, its financial results and prospects.
and require prepayment of all outstandingamounts.
Investors are kept informed of key business activities, decisions, The 300m 6.875% bonds due 2013, the US$150m 4.26% notes due appointments, etc.
via regulatory news and press releases and the Groups in three instalments of US$50m from 2016 to 2017, the 250m 6.125% website.
There is also regular dialogue with institutional shareholders bonds due 2019, the 300m 8.125% bonds due 2018, the 350m 8.750% throughout the year and general presentations are made by the Chief bonds due 2021 and the 200m 6.875% bonds due 2024 issued by the Executive and Finance Director following the announcement of the Company may also be affected by a change of control of the Company.
Other Directors, including Non-Executive Achange of control in respect of the 300m 6.875% bonds due 2013 and Directors, attend meetings with major shareholders as requested.
the 250m 6.125% bonds due 2019 may result in an increase of 1.5% per annum in the interest rate payable on those bonds.
However, the interest Regular reports on investor relations activity and feedback from rate on the bonds will only be so increased if certain further conditions in investors are submitted to the Board and senior management.
relation to the credit rating of the bonds are also satisfied.
In respect of Certain Non-Executive Directors have also engaged with major the 300m 8.125% bonds due 2018, the 350m 8.750% bonds due 2021 shareholders regarding the Group during the year.
and the 200m 6.875% bonds due 2024, upon a change of control of the Annual General Meeting Company, together with the satisfaction of certain further conditions in All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions to the Directors at relation to the credit rating of the bonds, the bondholders have the option the Companys Annual General Meeting, at which a report is made on the to require the Company to redeem the bonds.
In respect of the US$150m highlights of the key business developments during the year under review.
4.26% notes due from 2016 to 2017, upon a change of control, the The Chairmen of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees Company must make an offer to noteholders to prepay the entire unpaid attend the Annual General Meeting to answer specific questions from principal amount of the notes held by each bondholder at par together shareholders.
All Directors who then held office were present at the 2011 with interest accrued thereon but without any yield-maintenance amount.
b UK Rail Notice of the Annual General Meeting is circulated to all shareholders The Groups franchised passenger rail operators, First Capital Connect, at least 20 working days prior to the meeting.
Separate resolutions are First ScotRail, First TransPennine Express and First Great Western, proposed at the Annual General Meeting on each substantially separate are each party to a franchise agreement with the Scottish Ministers in issue.
Proxy votes are counted on all resolutions and, where votes are respect of First ScotRail and with the Secretary of State for Transport taken on a show of hands, the proxy results are subsequently announced in respect of the other operators.
These franchise agreements are to the meeting.
subject to termination clauses which may apply on a change of control.
These operators and the Groups non-franchised rail operator, First Hull Trains, each hold railway licences as required by the Railways Act 1993 as amended : these licences may be revoked on three months notice if a change of control occurs without the approval of the Office of Rail Regulation.
All of these operators also require and hold track access agreements with Network Rail Infrastructure Limited under which they are permitted to access railway infrastructure.
Failure by any of the operators to maintain its railway licence is a potential termination event under the FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51
