com Corporate Governance This report describes the Companys The Roles of the Chairman and health and environmental matters.
corporate governance structure and Chief Executive and Division of The Chief Executive is supported by the explains how the Company applies Responsibilities Finance Director in the provision to the the principles of the UK Corporate Board of high quality financial information The division of responsibilities between Governance Code issued by the Financial on the companys performance.
the Chairman and the Chief Executive has Reporting Council in 2010 the Code.
been agreed by the Board and is set out The Company is committed to ensuring The biographical details of the Chairman in writing.
that the highest standards of corporate and details of his relevant experience are governance are maintained and intends set out on page 44.
The Chairman leads the Board, promoting to comply fully with the main and a culture of openness, challenge and supporting principles of the UK Corporate The Role of Executive Directors debate and ensuring its effectiveness and Governance Code.
For the period from high standards of corporate governance The Executive Directors have specic incorporation to listing on 19 December to safeguard the interests of shareholders.
executive responsibilities, of which the 2012 the Company did not comply with The Chairman facilitates and encourages Chief Executives are set out above.
The the provisions of the Combined Code, open communication and constructive Chief Executive provides leadership as this was ultimately the responsibility working relationships between the to the management team, sets the of the Board of Cookson Group plc.
With executive and Non-executive Directors and culture, standards, ethics and values the exception of undertaking a Board provides overall guidance to the Executive of the Company, and is responsible for evaluation, which has not been possible Directors and senior management.
management development and succession in the time period, the Company has The Chairman in conjunction with planning within the Company.
The Finance complied with the Code from the date the Nominations Committee is also Director has particular responsibility for of listing.
responsible for Board succession the accuracy and completeness of the planning and has ultimate responsibility Companys financial reporting, for treasury, LEADERSHIP for communication and dialogue with tax and risk management, and for internal The Role of the Board shareholders, together with ensuring financial controls.
that the Board acts in the best interest of The Board is appointed by shareholders, shareholders taken as a whole.
Executive Directors are not members of who are the owners of the Company.
The the Board Committees, although they may Boards principal responsibility is to act The Chairman in conjunction with the be invited to attend.
in the best interests of the shareholders Company Secretary and Executive as a whole, within the legal framework Directors sets the agenda for Board The biographical details of the Executive of the Companies Act 2006.
Ultimate meetings and ensures that all Board and Directors and details of their relevant responsibility for the management and Committee members receive accurate, experience are set out on page 44. long-term success of Alent rests with the timely and clear information prior to Board of Directors.
A clear structure for the The Role of Non-executive Directors primarily upon strategic, policy and operation of the Board and its Committees governance issues and is responsible The Non-executive Directors bring a is in place.
The Chairman meets routinely for the Companys long-term success.
It wide range of skills and international with the Chief Executive, the Finance approves the Companys strategy, oversees experience to the Board.
Their role is to Director and the Company Secretary the allocation of resources, approves the understand the business and its markets, to discuss relevant matters.
The Board Companys operating budgets which are to help shape and develop strategy, and considers that the Chairman is able to, and normally proposed by the Chief Executive to challenge constructively and support does, devote sufficient time to his duties and monitors the performance of the the management.
The Board is also role is also to satisfy themselves with responsible for identifying, evaluating regard to the integrity of the Companys The Chief Executive has overall and managing the key risks faced by financial information and to ensure that responsibility for the day-to-day the Company, and for establishing the the Companys financial controls and management of the business, the effectiveness of the Companys systems of risk management systems are robust performance for which he is accountable internal controls.
It has a formal schedule and defensible.
Collectively they hold and upon which he reports to the Board.
of matters reserved to it and delegates or have held senior positions in their He has the lead role in developing certain matters to committees as set out in chosen elds and contribute a wide the Companys strategic direction for the Report.
In addition, the Non-executive range of international experience and consideration and approval by the Board, Directors constructively challenge the objective perspective to the Board.
They and for the implementation of the agreed Executive Directors and review their represent a strong, independent element strategy.
The Chief Executive is responsible performance.
The Board reviews, at least on the Board.
As chairman of the Board on a day-to-day basis for, and oversees, annually, the performance of the Chairman.
committees, the independent Nonthe Companys performance in safety, 46 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 executive Directors also full important The Company Secretary Board meetings leadership roles.
As members of the The Company Secretary supports the The Board is presently scheduled to Board committees, the independent Chairman on corporate governance convene formally on eight occasions Non-executive Directors will bring focus matters.
Together with the Chairman he during 2013 and will hold any number of on governance and succession planning, is responsible to the Board in respect ad hoc committee meetings to consider internal controls, risk management and of compliance with Board procedures, non-routine business as necessary.
ensuring a timely ow of information and addition, it is envisaged that the Chairman for the setting of the annual programme and the other Non-executive Directors The biographical details of the Nonof Board and Committee meetings will meet routinely on their own without executive Directors and details of their and their agendas.
Furthermore, he the executive Directors present, and, at relevant experience are set out on pages has responsibility, via the Chairman, for least once each year the Non-executive 44 to 45. ensuring that the Board is kept up to date Directors will meet without the Chairman on legislative, regulatory and governance being present to discuss matters such as The Senior Independent Director matters and developments and that all the Chairmans performance.
The Board nominates one of the Noninduction and professional development executive Directors to act as Senior needs are met.
Specic matters reserved for the Board, Independent Director and provide an which will be reviewed annually, include: alternative contact at Board level, other The Company Secretary ensures that there reviewing Company and divisional than the Chairman, to whom shareholder is an appropriate level of communication performance: approving significant matters can be addressed.
The Senior between the Board and its Committees transactions including acquisitions, Independent Director, when necessary, and between senior management and the divestments, capital expenditure and supports the Chairman and the other Non-executive Directors.
changes to the Companys capital Non-executive Directors on Company structure: setting and approving the related matters.
He will act as a sounding The Company Secretary is secretary Companys strategy and annual budget: board for the Chairman and, should it be to each of the board committees.
All approving the Companys nancing and required, can act as an intermediary for any Directors have access to the advice and treasury policies: declaration of dividends: concerns of other Non-executive Directors.
services of the Company Secretary.
succession planning: and approving Board There is a written job specication for the appointments and the remuneration of role which will be reviewed annually by the Non-executive Directors.
In addition, the Nomination Committee.
The Senior the Board has overall responsibility for Independent Director is responsible for health, safety and environmental matters, undertaking the annual evaluation of the and maintains overall responsibility for the Chairmans performance, leading the Companys systems of internal control and recruitment process for a new Chairman risk management processes.
while ensuring an orderly succession process.
Mark Williamson is the Senior Independent Director.
STOCK CODE: ALNT 47 OUR GOVERNANCE OUR GOVERNANCE www.
com Corporate Governance continued BOARD COMMITTEES The Board has established the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees is composed of the independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board also delegates specic responsibilities to its Finance and Share Schemes committees.
Audit Committee Responsibilities: To monitor the integrity of financial reporting and to assist the Board in its review of the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems.
Chair of Committee: Mark Williamson Membership: All independent Non-executive Directors.
Attending by invitation: Company Chairman: Lars Frberg non-independent Non-executive Director : the Chief Executive: the Finance Director and the external auditor are invited to attend on a regular basis.
The Head of Internal Audit and the Group Financial Controller are invited as and when appropriate.
The Chairman of the Committee may request the attendance of others at meetings including external advisers.
Minimum number of meetings per year: Three Committee Report: Page 53 Remuneration Committee Responsibilities: To determine the appropriate remuneration packages for the Companys Chairman, Executive Directors, and Company Secretary and to recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for other senior management.
Chair of Committee: Nel Harwerth Membership: All independent Non-executive Directors.
Attending by invitation: Company Chairman: Lars Frberg non-independent Non-executive Director : the Chief Executive and the Vice President, Human Resources are invited to attend as required.
Minimum number of meetings per year: As necessary.
It is anticipated that at least three meetings will be held each year.
Committee Report: Page 56 Nominations Committee Responsibilities: To advise the Board on appointments, retirements and resignations from the Board and its Committees and review succession planning for the Board.
Chair of Committee: Peter Hill, the Chairman except where considering his own succession or replacement in which case the Committee is chaired by Mark Williamson, the Senior Independent Director.
Membership: The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors.
Attending by invitation: Chief Executive: the Chairman of the Committee may request the attendance of others at meetings including external advisers.
Committee Report: Page 55 48 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 Finance Committee Responsibilities: To approve specic funding and treasury related matters as set out in the Companys delegated authorities or as delegated from time to time by the Board.
Chair of Committee: The Chairman Membership: The Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Company Treasurer.
Attending by invitation: Others whom the Chairman shall so require.
Share Schemes Committee Responsibilities: To facilitate the administration of the Companys share schemes.
Chair of Committee: Any member.
Each committee has written terms of reference agreed by the Board.
These are available to view on the Companys website www.
com Directors met informally prior to the Companys listing on 19 December 2012 to review and, where necessary, approve various matters relating to the Demerger.
No formal Board meetings were held between the listing of the Company on 19 December 2012 and 31 December 2012 so no table of attendance is included.
From January 2013 a normal schedule of Board meetings has commenced.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS The Composition of the Board The Board considers its size to be appropriate Appointments to the Board and its for the requirements of the business.
Committees The Board currently has eight Directors, No one other than Committee Chairman and comprising the Non-executive Chairman, The Nominations Committee leads the members of the Committees are entitled Peter Hill CBE: the Chief Executive, Steve process for Board appointments and to be present at meetings of the Audit, Corbett: the Finance Director, David Egan: makes recommendations to the Board.
Nominations and Remuneration Committees, and five Non-executive Directors, Dr Emma The Board through the Nominations but others may attend by invitation.
Fitzgerald, Lars Frberg, Nel Harwerth, Committee follows a formal, rigorous and Jan Oosterveld and Mark Williamson.
transparent procedure based on objective The Board considers the majority of the Simon OHara serves as Company criteria for the appointment of new Non-executive Directors to be independent Secretary.
All of the Non-executive Directors Directors to the Board.
The Committee of management and free from any business are considered to be independent, with the considers any proposed recruitment in or other relationship which could affect the exception of Lars Frberg.
the context of the Companys strategic exercise of their independent judgement.
Board appointments are made The Board seeks to ensure that both it on merit.
Non-executive appointees The Chairman satisfied the independence and its Committees have the appropriate are required to demonstrate that they criteria on his appointment to the Board.
range of skills, experience, knowledge and have sufficient time to devote to the Dr Emma Fitzgerald, Nel Harwerth, Jan independence to enable them to discharge role.
The Nominations Committee is Oosterveld and Mark Williamson have their respective duties and responsibilities also responsible for reviewing the Board been determined by the Board to be effectively.
Alent is privileged to have a succession recognising the importance of independent in character and judgement.
Board of Directors with such international recruiting Non-executive Directors with the Lars Frberg is not considered to be business backgrounds and a range of diverse necessary technical skills and knowledge independent as he is managing partner of skills, experience and nationalities.
This relevant to the work of its committees.
Cevian Capital which holds 20% of Alents diversity will be invaluable in developing the Further information on the Nominations issued ordinary share capital.
Companys business strategy and will enable Committee is set out in the Nominations such a global manufacturing business to be Committee Report on page 55.
Mr Williamson currently serves as Senior effectively governed.
STOCK CODE: ALNT 49 OUR GOVERNANCE OUR GOVERNANCE www.
com Corporate Governance continued Time commitment of the Chairman and the Directors are provided with details of consider the balance of skills, experience, Non-executive Directors seminars and training courses relevant independence and knowledge of the to their role.
They are encouraged to Company on the Board, its diversity, The Chairman and Non-executive Directors attend these as they consider appropriate including gender, how the Board works each have a letter of appointment which and are supported by the Company in together as a unit and other factors sets out the terms and conditions of so doing.
Where a general training need relevant to its effectiveness.
An indication of the is identied, in-house training will be anticipated time commitment is provided provided to the entire Board.
The Chairman will be responsible for and in the recruitment role specication, and will lead the evaluation process and will their letters of appointment provide details Information be assisted by the Company Secretary.
of the meetings that they are expected to In line with best practice, the Company attend, along with indicating the need to The Board has in place processes to ensure will engage an external facilitator for the accommodate travelling time particularly that it is supplied in a timely manner with Board evaluation exercise as appropriate in for overseas trips and to set aside information of an appropriate quality accordance with its requirements to do so.
sufficient time to prepare for meetings to enable it to adequately discharge The Senior Independent Director will be and to regularly refresh and update their its duties.
Papers are provided to the responsible for the performance evaluation skills and knowledge.
All Directors agree Directors in advance of the relevant Board of the Chairman.
to commit sufficient time for the proper or committee meeting to enable them to performance of their responsibilities and make further enquiries about any matters Re-election of Directors understand that this will vary from year prior to the meeting should they so wish.
to year depending on the Companys This also allows Directors who are unable The Code recommends that all Directors activities.
Directors are expected to attend to attend to submit views in advance of the of FTSE 350 companies be subject to all Board meetings and any additional meeting.
All meetings including Committee meetings the Directors will therefore be offering as required.
Directors other significant The Company Secretary oversees the themselves for election at this years AGM, commitments are disclosed to the Board distribution of these papers and ensures with the biographical details of each of at the time of their appointment and they that there is an appropriate level of the Directors, including details of their are required to notify the Board of any communication between the Board other directorships and relevant skills and subsequent changes.
The Company has and its committees and between senior experience set out in the 2013 Notice of reviewed the availability of the Nonmanagement and the Non-executive AGM.
The Board believes that each of the executive Directors and considers that Directors.
He also keeps the Board Directors standing for election is effective each of them is able to, and in practice informed of relevant developments and demonstrates commitment to their does, devote the necessary amount of in corporate governance.
Accordingly, the Board time to the Companys business.
Executive provides, as a matter of routine, recommends that shareholders approve a written update on important business the resolutions to be proposed at the Induction and training issues between meetings and invites the 2013 AGM relating to the election of the views of the Directors on these.
The Company Secretary is tasked with ensuring that a comprehensive Support The current policy is for Non-executive induction programme is provided to Directors to serve on the Board for nine all new Directors.
This includes visits There is an agreed procedure in place to years, with review at the end of three and to manufacturing and other Company support Directors, in the furtherance of six years, subject to mutual agreement and facilities, meetings with key Company their duties, to take independent legal annual performance evaluation.
executives and introductions to the advice if necessary, at the Companys Companys principal external advisers, as expense.
New Directors are advised of their legal and other duties and obligations Performance evaluation To the extent permitted by section 236 as Directors of a listed company.
of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors In accordance with the provisions of the Reference materials are provided, have been granted Qualifying Third Party Code, the Board of Alent plc intends to including information about the Board, its Indemnity Provisions by the Company.
undertake a formal and rigorous evaluation committees, Directors duties, procedures The indemnities for Directors of Alent of its own performance and effectiveness for dealing in the Companys shares and plc have been in force since the date of and to assess the performance of its other regulatory and governance matters.
appointment on 31 October 2012. committees and individual Board members on an annual basis.
Given The Chairman will meet with Directors on Directors conicts of interest that the Company was only listed on an on going basis to review any training 19 December 2012, no evaluation process The Board has a formal system in place and development needs.
In addition, was conducted in 2012.
The Board will for Directors to review regularly their 50 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 interests and to deal with situations where Risk management and assessment and The Board reviews the role of insurance a Director reports any conicts of interest.
internal control systems and other measures used in managing Any conict situation reported to the risks across the Company, receives regular The Board has overall responsibility for Chairman and the Company Secretary reports on any major issues that have the establishment and maintenance of the is considered by the Board based on its arisen during the year and makes an Companys system of risk management particular facts.
Any authorisations given annual assessment of how the risks have and internal control, and for reviewing its to a Director who has a conict situation changed over the period under review.
This system is designed to are recorded in the Board minutes and in The Audit Committee assists the Board manage, rather than eliminate, the risks a register of Directors conicts which is in reviewing the effectiveness of the facing the Company and safeguard assets.
reviewed annually by the Board.
The Board Companys system of internal controls, No system of internal control can provide believes that the systems it has in place for including financial, operational and absolute assurance against material reporting Situational Conicts will operate compliance controls, and risk management misstatement or loss.
The key features of the system is designed to provide the Companys system of internal controls Directors with reasonable assurance that ACCOUNTABILITY include: any problems are identied on a timely The Audit Committee basis and are dealt with appropriately.
Strategy and financial reporting In accordance with the provisions of the The membership of the Audit Committee Code, the Directors confirm that they The Company operates a comprehensive is set out on page 53.
The Audit have reviewed the effectiveness of the strategic planning and forecasting process, Committee report, which summarises the Companys system of internal control and with an annual budget approved by terms of reference of the Audit Committee that the necessary actions have been the Board.
Monthly operating financial and describes its work in discharging taken to remedy and control any control information is reported against this budget its responsibilities, is set out on pages weaknesses identied during the year.
and key trends and variances analysed.
Since the date of this review there have Action is then taken as appropriate.
been no significant changes in internal Financial and business reporting controls or other matters which could The Board will also use one of its meetings In its reporting to shareholders the Board signicantly affect them.
The key risks in 2013 specically to consider and recognises its responsibility to present facing the Company are set out on review the Companys strategy and its a fair, balanced and understandable pages 26 to 29. implementation, and its future prospects.
assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The Business Review on pages There is a continuous process for Company accounting policies and 14 to 25 sets out explanations for the identifying, evaluating and managing any procedures are formulated and basis on which the Company generates or significant risks faced by Alent.
Company disseminated to all Company operations, preserves value over the longer term and management operates a risk management covering the application of accounting the strategy for delivering the objectives of process designed to identify the key standards and the maintenance of the Company.
risks facing each business and reports to accounting records and key financial the Board on how those risks are being control procedures.
Directors and Auditors Responsibility managed.
As a basis for this report, each A statement of the Directors responsibility of the Companys major business units Operational controls for preparing the Annual Report and produces a risk map which identies Each operating company, including accounts is included on pages 74 to 75. their key risks and assesses the likelihood the Divisional and Corporate ofces, of those risks occurring, their impact if they maintains internal controls and procedures A statement by the Auditor, KPMG LLP, do occur and the actions being taken to appropriate to its structure and business setting out its reporting responsibilities is manage those risks to a desired level.
As a environment, whilst complying with included on page 78. new company, the Board expects to further Company policies on items such as the develop its risk management structure authorisation of capital expenditure, Going concern and processes during 2013, as well as its treasury transactions and the management The Directors consider that the Company procedures, and embedded processes of intellectual property.
has adequate resources to continue in in respect of its Ethics, Health, Safety, operational existence for the foreseeable Environmental and Sustainability activities.
In addition, the Companys financial future and accordingly, they have adopted Current activities are described in the reporting process, including the Corporate Social Responsibility Review, on a going concern basis in preparing the preparation of the Companys consolidated pages 30 to 35.
At Board level, the Chief financial statements of the Group and the financial statements, incorporates the Executive currently takes the lead on these Company.
dissemination and use of common matters.
accounting policies and procedures and financial reporting software.
STOCK CODE: ALNT 51 OUR GOVERNANCE OUR GOVERNANCE www.
com Corporate Governance continued The Board considers significant nancing effectiveness of the system of internal The Companys investor relations and investment decisions concerning controls within the businesses for which programme will be managed by the the Company, including the giving of they are responsible, together with their Chief Executive and Finance Director.
guarantees and indemnities, and monitors compliance throughout the year with the The majority of meetings with investors policy and control mechanisms for Companys policies and procedures.
will be led by them, but the Chairman, managing treasury risk.
Senior Independent Director and other Directors will also be available to meet with Executive compensation and risk significant shareholders as appropriate.
At Reviewing the effectiveness of All the independent Non-executive these meetings, investors will be offered internal controls Directors serve on both the Audit and the opportunity to meet with the Chairman The internal control system is monitored Remuneration Committees.
They are or the Senior Independent Non-executive and supported by the Companys internal therefore able to bring their experience Director.
This function assists and knowledge of the activities of each management and the Board in the Committee to bear when considering The Company will report its financial effective discharge of their responsibility the critical judgements of the other.
This results to shareholders twice a year, for internal control by conducting reviews means that the Directors are in a position with the publication of its Annual and of Alents businesses and reporting to consider carefully the impact of incentive Half-Yearly Financial Reports and will objectively both on the adequacy and arrangements on the Companys risk prole issue two further trading updates each effectiveness of the system of internal and to ensure the Companys remuneration year with the publication of its Interim control in place and as to whether policy and programme is structured so as Management Statements.
In conjunction those businesses are in compliance to accord with the long-term objectives and with these announcements, presentations with applicable Company policies and risk appetite of the Company.
or teleconference calls will be held with procedures.
The Audit Committee receives institutional investors and stock market reports from the Company Head of Internal RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS analysts.
Recordings of these will be made Audit on a regular basis and reports to the The Board believes that it is a priority available on the Companys website Board on the results of its review.
to communicate with shareholders and www.
com along with hard copies of uses various methods to reach as many any presentation materials issued.
As part of the Boards process for reviewing shareholders as possible.
There are the effectiveness of the system of internal programmes for the Chief Executive, Regular updates on shareholder issues control, it delegates the following matters Finance Director and the Head of Investor and discussions will be provided to the to the Audit Committee to be carried out Relations to meet with the Companys Board.
Board members will continue to during the year: major institutional investors in the UK, the receive copies of significant analysts notes US and Continental Europe.
The Board issued on the Company.
All Directors { review of external and internal audit also seeks to ensure effective engagement are expected to attend the Companys work plans: with shareholders through the Companys AGM, providing shareholders with the consideration of reports from regular communications, the AGM, as { opportunity to question them about issues management, internal audit and well as through Capital Markets Days to relating to the Company, either during the external audit on the system of internal provide the Companys stakeholders with meeting or informally.
control and any significant control more detailed insight into the Companys weaknesses: and future strategy and investment proposition Annual General Meeting and other investor relations activities.
discussions with management on the { Communication with private shareholders actions taken on problem areas is largely through the AGM, which is held In addition, the Chairman of the identied by Board members, in at a central London location.
Remuneration Committee commenced, internal audit reports or in external in the first quarter of 2013, meetings audit management letters.
Shareholders are given the opportunity with key institutional shareholders and to ask questions of the Board and the their representative bodies to discuss At the year-end, following the review by Chairman of each Board Committee the proposals for the Companys new the Audit Committee of internal financial during the AGM and to meet the Directors remuneration policy, and further meetings controls and of the processes covering informally.
Separate resolutions are will be held during the year.
other controls, the Board evaluates the proposed at the AGM on a poll for each results of the internal control and risk item of business and shareholders are The Chairman has met with shareholders asked to vote for, against or vote management procedures conducted in the first quarter of 2013 and he, and also withheld on each resolution.
Votes are by senior management.
This includes a the Senior Independent Director, will each counted and an announcement conrming self-certication exercise by which senior seek separate meetings with shareholders whether each resolution was passed at the financial and operational management during the course of the year.
AGM is made through the London Stock throughout the Company certify the 52 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 Exchange and can be viewed on the Alent authorise the Committee to obtain outside The Committees members met informally, website, together with a summary of the legal or other independent professional including with the Auditor, prior to the number of votes cast in respect of each advice at the cost of the Company and to Companys listing on 19 December 2012 resolution.
The majority of shareholders secure the attendance at Audit Committee to review and where necessary approve have elected to access the Annual Report meetings of other parties with relevant various matters relating to the Demerger.
and other shareholder documents online experience and expertise should it be No Audit Committee meetings were held via the Alent website rather than receiving considered necessary.
between 19 and 31 December 2012. a copy by post.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee expects to discharge AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT reports the outcome of the Audit its responsibilities as follows: Committee meetings to the Board and all Members members of the Board receive the agenda, review the Companys Half-Yearly and { Mark Williamson Committee Chairman papers and minutes of Audit Committee Annual Results Announcement Annual Dr Emma Fitzgerald meetings.
In Nel Harwerth doing so, the Committee will receive Jan Oosterveld Role and responsibilities reports from management on significant aspects of the Companys The primary role and responsibilities of the The Audit Committee members are the financial statements, including matters Audit Committee are: independent Non-executive Directors, requiring significant management other than the Board Chairman.
The Audit judgement, asset impairment valuation, monitoring the integrity of the { Committee is chaired by Mr Williamson, a amounts reported at fair value, Companys Half-Year and Annual qualied accountant.
The Code requires off-balance sheet items and contingent Financial Statements, the Interim the Board to be satisfied that at least one liabilities, and reports from the Auditor Management Statements and any other member of the Committee has recent identifying any accounting or formal announcements relating to the and relevant financial experience, and judgemental issues thereon requiring Companys financial performance: the Board considers that Mr Williamson its attention: possesses the requisite financial { reviewing the process whereby the { receive reports from the Company experience to meet this requirement.
Board assesses the effectiveness of the Head of Internal Audit covering, The Board also considers that the Audit Companys internal controls and risk amongst other things, the work Committee members together possess the management systems: undertaken by the internal audit necessary commercial, financial and audit { establishing and reviewing procedures function and management responses to expertise to help them assess effectively for detecting fraud, and systems and proposals made in the audit reports the complex accounting, audit and risk controls for the prevention of bribery, issued by the function during the year.
issues they have to address.
along with overseeing the Companys The Committee will also review the arrangements for employees to raise results of an assessment which will be At the invitation of the Audit Committee concerns about possible wrongdoing in undertaken of the performance of the Chairman, the non independent Nonfinancial reporting or other matters: internal audit function and the executive Director Lars Frberg, the monitoring and reviewing the { Committee will review and approve the Chairman of the Company, the Chief effectiveness of the Companys internal internal audit plan, submitted by the Executive, the Finance Director and audit function: Company Head of Internal Audit: the Companys Auditor, KPMG LLP, monitoring and reviewing the Auditors { will regularly attend meetings.
Other { review periodically the Auditors control independence, objectivity and executives, including in particular the findings: effectiveness, taking into account Group Financial Controller and the Head review the results of an assessment { professional and regulatory of Internal Audit, will be invited to attend which will be undertaken of the requirements: as and when appropriate.
It is envisaged performance of the Auditor, based that the Audit Committee will meet { making recommendations to the Board upon feedback received from the regularly with the Companys External on the appointment and dismissal of Companys corporate and divisional Auditor and the Company Head of Internal the Auditor and approving the finance management: Audit without any executives being remuneration and terms of review and agree the audit plan { present.
engagement of the Auditor: and presented by the Auditor, which will { helping to strengthen the independent detail the approach and scope of the The Audit Committee operates under position of the Auditor by providing a work to be undertaken and the level of formal terms of reference that will be direct channel of communication fees to be charged: reviewed on a regular basis.
These terms between it and the Non-executive of reference, which are available on the Directors.
com, STOCK CODE: ALNT 53 OUR GOVERNANCE OUR GOVERNANCE www.
com Corporate Governance continued { review the risk management process { the Annual Report issued by the Audit { is remunerated through a success fee operated by management designed to Inspection Unit of the Financial Reporting structure: or identify the key risks facing each Council on the work of the Auditor: and acts in an advocacy role for the Company.
{ business and how those risks were the Auditors own annual Transparency { being managed: Report.
The policy sets out the categories of review reports from management which { work that the Auditor is prohibited from address the appropriateness of the KPMG LLP has been appointed as the undertaking.
Other than these, the production of the Company financial Companys Auditor.
The Company, at Company does not impose an automatic statements on a going concern basis: a time considered appropriate, will prohibition on the Auditor undertaking review the Companys procedures for the undertake a review of the ongoing non-audit work.
The Auditor is eligible for { identication, management and control provision of audit services with a view to selection to provide non-audit services of specic areas of risk which impact the complying with the Code requirement that are not, or are not perceived to be, Group and the Company: and to put the external audit contract out to in conict with Auditor independence, tender at least every ten years.
The Audit provided it has the skill, competence and { as a matter of routine, the Audit Committee is recommending the Auditor integrity to carry out the work in the best Committee will be presented with for reappointment at the AGM in 2013. interests of the Company.
information on any significant litigation involving the Company.
The terms on which the Auditor is Recruitment to the Company of any new engaged do not include any contractual employee who had been employed by the Appointment of Auditor obligations which would prevent the Auditor in the last five years requires the The Audit Committee is responsible Directors appointing a different audit rm approval of the Audit Committee.
for making recommendations to the should this be considered appropriate.
Board in relation to the appointment, Proposals for any non-audit related fees reappointment and removal of the Auditor.
Independence and objectivity of Auditor which the Company is intending to pay In undertaking this duty, the Committee to the Auditor are presented to the Audit The Audit Committee is cognisant of the takes into consideration a number of Committee.
Any individual assignment need to ensure that the independence factors concerning the Auditor and the where the fee is likely to be in excess of and objectivity of the Auditor is continually Companys current activity, including: 30,000 must be pre-approved by the Audit maintained.
It has put in place safeguards Committee.
Where appropriate, services to ensure that the independence of the the quality both of reports provided by { are tendered prior to awarding work to the external audit is not compromised.
These the Auditor to the Audit Committee Auditor.
Details of the amounts paid to the safeguards include: and the Board, and of advice given: Auditor during the year for audit and other the level of understanding services are set out in note 7 on page 91.
{ seeking ongoing conrmation that the { demonstrated of the Companys Auditor is independent of the Company businesses: Internal audit in its own professional judgement: and The Companys internal audit function { the independence of the Auditor, in considering all the relationships { operates on a global basis.
The Company light of the provision of non-audit between the Auditor and the Company, Head of Internal Audit is responsible services: including those relating to the provision for developing the function, within of non-audit services and whether these { the objectivity of the Auditors views on the framework of common Company impair, or appear to impair, the the controls throughout the Company: policies and standards, and for carrying Auditors judgement or independence.
its ability to coordinate a global audit, { out assignments in accordance with an working to tight deadlines: annual audit plan approved by the Audit The Audit Committee monitors the other the cost-competitiveness of the Auditor { Committee.
In 2013, it is proposed that 27 services being provided to the Company in relation to the audit costs of internal audit assignments be undertaken by the Auditor.
The Company has a policy comparable UK companies: covering one-third, or approximately 30%, governing the Company-wide conduct of of the applicable businesses as required { the tenure of the incumbent Auditor: non-audit work by the Auditor to ensure by the Audit Charter.
The Company Head and that this does not impair its independence of Internal Audit reports directly to the { the periodic rotation of the senior audit or objectivity.
The Auditor is prohibited Audit Committee Chairman with functional management assigned to the audit of from performing services where it: responsibility to the Chief Executive.
Audit Committee receives reports from the { may be required to audit its own work: Company Head of Internal Audit and reports In addition, the Audit Committee considers { would participate in activities that to the Board on the results of its review.
external reviews of the performance and would normally be undertaken by quality of the Auditor, including: management: 54 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 Employee helpline the Executive Directors and the Company Wherever possible, the Nominations Secretary, and to monitor the levels and Committee will arrange for all Directors This is an independent and condential structure of remuneration below Board to meet with the preferred candidate.
service through which employees level.
Further details of the Remuneration The Nominations Committee will make worldwide may register any concerns about Committee and its activities are provided in recommendations for each appointment to any incorrect or irregular practices they the Directors Remuneration Report on pages the full Board.
Care will be taken to ensure perceive in Alents workplaces.
The Chairman of the Remuneration that all proposed appointees have sufficient is operated 24 hours a day, seven days a Committee reports the outcome of time available to devote to the role and do week, by an organisation that specialises Committee meetings to the Board.
not have any conicts of interest.
in the provision of such services.
It can be contacted by phone, email or via a NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT The Nominations Committee will review the designated website.
Translation facilities are Companys succession plans for members available for those for whom English is not Members of the Board.
The Board as a whole also their first or preferred language.
Peter Hill Committee Chairman and the considers this subject.
Both of Alents Non-executive Directors.
divisions will submit detailed succession Approach to anti-bribery and plans in respect of senior divisional corruption training The Nominations Committee advises the executives to the Board for review each The Companys Code of Conduct and its Board on appointments to, and retirements year.
The Board also considers succession policies on anti-bribery and corruption and resignations from, the Board, and planning for senior corporate executives.
require that employees and others working reviews the Companys succession on behalf of the Company do not engage plans.
The members of the Nominations The Nomination Committee will also in any form of bribery or corruption.
Committee are the Chairman, and the Nonconsider diversity generally across the executive Directors.
It is the Companys aim to Our anti-bribery and corruption as and when required and is chaired by maintain an appropriate level of diversity compliance programme will be the Chairman or a Non-executive Director.
on the Board to reect the diverse nature refreshed and relaunched throughout The Chairman would not act as Chairman of the Companys operations, and to the Company and will be implemented of the Nominations Committee where it increase the level of diversity in executive through a targeted face-to-face training was dealing with the appointment of his management below Board level.
An e-learning module will be successor.
Formal meetings will be held to rolled out globally.
New employees, as consider standing items of business: there is The Board fully supports the relevant, will go through the training as also expected to be a significant level of recommendations of the Davies Report part of their induction process.
ad hoc discussion between members of the entitled Women on Boards.
Nominations Committee, particularly when The compliance programme will include a recruitment exercise is taking place.
The Board actively seeks to meet with key undertaking risk assessments and engaging executives throughout the Company so with others working on behalf of the When considering the appointment of new as to gain a greater understanding of the Company to ensure that their standards Directors, the Nominations Committee breadth and depth of management talent.
comply with the Companys policies.
will draw up a specication, taking into This enables members of the Committee consideration the diversity of the Board, the to adopt a more informed approach to On behalf of the Audit Committee balance of skills, knowledge and experience, succession planning.
the independence of Board members and Mark Williamson the ongoing requirements of the Company.
The Chairman of the Nominations Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee The Nominations Committees foremost reports the outcome of Nominations 28 March 2013 priority will be to ensure that the Company Committee meetings to the Board.
has the best possible leadership.
Its prime REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT responsibility is to ensure the strength of the On behalf of the Nominations Committee Members Board.
Board appointments will be made on merit against objective criteria, selecting the Noel Harwerth Committee Chairman Peter Hill, CBE best candidate for the post.
Dr Emma Fitzgerald Chairman of the Nominations Committee Jan Oosterveld 28 March 2013 The Nominations Committee will utilise, Mark Williamson where appropriate, the services of executive By Order of the Board search rms to identify appropriate The Remuneration Committee members are candidates and will only use those rms the Independent Non-executive Directors that have adopted the Voluntary Code Simon OHara excluding the Board Chairman.
The of Conduct addressing gender diversity Company Secretary Committees principal roles are to set the and best practice in search assignments.
28 March 2013 appropriate remuneration for the Chairman, STOCK CODE: ALNT 55 OUR GOVERNANCE
