112 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Board of Directors and Executive Committee Fresnillo plc Boardroom Independent Directors The Chairman leads the Board Non-independent Directors Mara Asuncin Aramburuzabala Alejandro Baillres Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Alberto Baillres Non-executive Chairman Fernando Ruiz Juan Bordes Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Fernando Solana Arturo Fernndez Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Fresnillo Boardroom Javier Fernndez Jaime Lomeln Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Committee Chairmen report on the discussions of their Committees Lord Cairns Guy Wilson Rafael MacGregor Senior Independent Director Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director The Executive Committee members inform and support Board and Committee discussions Mario Arregun Octavio Alvdrez David Giles Chief Financial officer Chief Executive officer Vice President Exploration Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 113 Alberto Baillres Chairman and Independent Directors Alberto Baillres Javier Fernndez Non-executive Chairman Independent Appointed 15 April 2008 Non-executive Director Chairman: Nominations Committee Appointed 15 April 2008 Member: Remuneration Committee Member: Nominations and Mr Baillres has extensive experience HSECR Committees Lord Cairns andknowledge of both the Group and Through his wide-ranging commercial theMexican markets in which it operates experience, both at a Mexican and and hasoverseen the development of international level and across a variety boththe Fresnillo Group, and its associated ofindustrial and services sectors, companies that provide essential services MrFernndez contributes a deep tothe Group, from both the investor and andindependent business perspective thesupervisory perspectives.
Mara Asuncin Lord Cairns Fernando Ruiz Aramburuzabala Senior Independent Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed 15 April 2008 Appointed 15 April 2008 Chairman: Remuneration Committee Member: Audit, Nominations Lord Cairns brings a macro-economic andRemuneration Committees perspective to the Boards discussions Mr Ruiz contributes to the Board and whichis supplemented by his career as AuditCommittee proceedings through Javier Fernndez aninvestment banker in London.
He is experience of international audit and ableto provide an informed view of accounting frameworks and a specialist institutional investor attitudes and issues.
Hiswide international experience and connections enable him to contribute Fernando Solana asupra-governmental view to the Boardsdiscussions.
Independent Non-executive Director Fernando Ruiz Mara Asuncin Appointed 19 February 2009 Member: Audit Committee Aramburuzabala Mr Solanas extensive experience and Independent connections within the political, banking Non-executive Director anddiplomatic arenas enables him to Appointed 16 April 2012 contribute to these aspects of strategic Ms Aramburuzabala brings experience of analysis at Board level.
He is able to provide abroad range of Mexican and international insight into the domestic political and businesses to her role.
Fernando Solana Guy Wilson Independent Non-executive Director Appointed 1 July 2008 Chairman: Audit Committee Mr Wilsons distinguished career within Guy Wilson aglobal audit rm and his experience of capital transactions and corporate actions provide the Board with an important international audit and accountancy perspective.
114 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Board of Directors and Executive Committee continued Alejandro Baillres Non-independent Directors Alejandro Baillres Rafael MacGregor Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed 16 April 2012 Appointed 15 April 2008 Mr Baillres brings experience of a broad Chairman: HSECR Committee range of Mexican and international Mr MacGregor has wide-ranging commercial businesses to his role.
experience across a number of sectors, Juan Bordes including institutional financial services andthe Mexican Stock Exchange.
Juan Bordes Non-executive Director Jaime Lomeln Appointed 15 April 2008 Non-executive Director Mr Bordes brings to the Board practical and extensive cross-sector business experience, former Chief Executive officer including within financial services.
Appointed 15 April 2008 Arturo Fernndez Member: HSECR Committee Arturo Fernndez Mr Lomeln brings to the Board an invaluable wealth of senior operational experience in Non-executive Director theelds of mining and engineering.
Appointed 15 April 2008 Mr Fernndez economics background, aswell as his experience and connections within the Mexican public policy arena provide the Board with commercial input Rafael MacGregor andthe macro-economic perspective.
Jaime Lomeln Biographical details for each of the Directors will be set out in the Circular accompanying the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 115 Octavio Alvdrez Executive Committee Octavio Alvdrez David Giles Chief Executive officer Vice President Exploration Appointed 15 August 2012 Appointed 15 April 2008 Member: Executive Committee Member: Executive Committee Invited to: Board: HSECR and Invited to: Board meetings Remuneration Committee meetings Mr Giles was previously employed by Mario Arregun Mr Alvdrez has extensive experience Peoles where he worked for 30 years withinthe mining industry and was andhad undertaken a number of senior previously General Manager of the Madero management positions including Vice mine, one ofMexicos largest mines and an President of Exploration.
Before joining important operation for Peoles.
Mr Alvdrez Peoles, he worked for AMAX, Corona Gold joined Peoles in August 1988.
Mr Giles has a bachelor of has held a number of senior operational and applied science and engineering degree financial positions across Peoles and ingeology from the University of Toronto, Fresnillo, including that of Treasurer, and holds an MBA from ITESM University David Giles HeadofInvestor Relations in London inMexico.
He is an officer of the Society andHead of Procurement.
He is a graduate ofEconomic Geologists and the Mexican of the Universidad fide Guanajuato Mexico, Association of Mining, Metallurgical and where he gained a degree in Mining Geological Engineers.
Engineering, and holds an MBA from TheWharton School US.
Mario Arregun Chief Financial officer Appointed 15 April 2008 Member: Executive Committee Invited to: Board and Audit Committee meetings Mr Arregun joined Fresnillo plc from Peoles, where he was Chief Financial officer for 11 years and Group Treasurer for the six years prior.
Before joining Peoles, Mr Arregun worked in investment banking at Valores Finamex andProject Management at Dupont Mxico.
Mr Arregun holds a bachelor of chemical engineering degree with honours and received his MBA from the University of Chicago.
He also completed the Stanford Executive Program at Stanford University.
