116 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Corporate Governance Report UK Corporate Governance Fresnillo Governance Structure  The Board structure As a company with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange, The structure and business of the Board is designed to ensure that Fresnillo is required under the FSA Listing Rules to comply with the theBoard focuses its time and energy on strategy, monitoring the Provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code a copy of performance of the management team, governance, risk and control which may be found on the website of the Financial Reporting Council issues.
Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities have been www.
uk or explain its reasons for non-compliance, in respect delegated to appropriate committees to ensure compliance with of the year ended 31 December 2012.
The following statement is theUK Companies Act, FSA Listing Rules and the Code.
therefore made in compliance with such requirement, and the The Board has delegated certain authorities to the following sections thereafter explain how the principles in the Code were committees to facilitate the routine business of the Company: applied and provide cross-references to other sections where more A udit Committee detailed description is available.
E xecutive Committee The Code establishes 18 main principles of good governance inve H ealth, Safety, Environment and Community Relations areas: Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration and HSECR Committee Relations with Shareholders.
The remainder of this report: the section on Risk Management which can be found on pages 46-55 : the N ominations Committee Sustainability Report which can be found on pages 78-95 and a R emuneration Committee detailed report on Directors remuneration which can be found on pages 133-141 provides further detail on how the Company applies Read more: The terms of reference for each of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations good governance in these five areas.
and Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations Committees areavailable on the Companys website www.
For the financial year ended 31 December 2012, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code in all these areas, save in respect of D. 2.1, which provides that the Board should establish a Detailed reports on the activities of the Audit Committee and the remuneration committee of at least three Independent Non-executive Nominations Committee are set out in this Report.
The composition of the Fresnillo Remuneration Committee is made up of three members including two Independent The Executive Committee is led by the Chief Executive officer and Non-executive Directors one of whom, Lord Cairns, is the Chairman consists of the most senior executives within the Fresnillo Group.
The Chairman of the Company, Mr Baillres, who Itisresponsible for the management of the Companys businesses was not independent at the time of his appointment, is also a member.
including the implementation of decisions agreed in principle by the The Board believes that Mr Baillres experience and knowledge of the Board and all executive management of the operations of the Group Group and the Mexican market and his considerable contribution to within the strategy and budget approved by the Board.
It has certain the Remuneration Committees deliberations justifies his membership powers to approve smaller transactions on behalf of the Board of the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Baillres is not involved in suchtransactions are reported and explained to the Board at its matters concerning his own remuneration.
Over the past few years, the role of the Executive Committee has evolved in three main areas: Risk: It is also responsible for the identication, prioritisation andmanagement of risk within a framework monitored regularly bythe Board.
Business Conduct: Members of the Executive Committee also serve on the Honour Commission which has, over the past two years, taken on a key role in maintaining ethical business standards within the Fresnillo Group.
The terms of reference and membership of the Honour Commission are set by the Executive Committee.
Safety Performance: Whilst the HSECR Committee oversees health and safety issues on behalf of the Board, the Executive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day management of safety.
In response to the decline in the Groups fatalities record over the past two years, the Executive Committee has increasingly focused its attention on this issue.
The HSECR Committee evaluates the effectiveness of the Companys policies and systems for identifying and managing HSECR matters within the Companys operations.
As such, management reports to the HSECR Committee on such matters.
The members of the HSECR Committee are Rafael MacGregor Chairman of the Committee, Javier Fernndez and Jaime Lomeln.
Meetings are also attended by various operational and unit managers.
The Sustainable Development Report on pages 78-95 sets out the activities of the HSECR Committee during the year.
The Report of the Remuneration Committee the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the responsibilities and activities of the Remuneration Committee during the year and can be found on pages 133-141.
Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 117 Fresnillo Governance Structure and Key Responsibilities Fresnillo plc Board S trategy and oversight F inancial reporting C orporate governance S trategic investments R elated party activity K ey policies andethics only Independent Directors Audit HSECR Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee F inancial assurance M onitoring HSECR activity B oard appointments D irectors remuneration R isk Controls assurance S ustainability monitoring S uccession planning I ncentivisation and retention Executive Committee Operational expenditure O perational and financial management A pproval of smaller transactions D ay-to-day management of risk I mplementation of strategy Honour Commission W histleblowing cases I mplementation of anti-bribery and corruption policies andprocedures 118 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Corporate Governance Report continued Board composition and independence Board independence The Board consists of 12 Non-executive Directors.
Six are considered Board membership to be non-independent and six are considered to be independent: During the year, two new Non-executive Directors Mara Asuncin asfollows: Aramburuzabala and Alejandro Baillres were appointed to the Board.
Consequently as at 31 December 2012, the Board consisted Non-independent Independent of12 Directors the Non-executive Chairman, Alberto Baillres, six Alberto Baillres Lord Cairns Independent Non-executive Directors and five Non-independent Chairman and Chairman Senior Independent Non-executive Directors.
The further details about the current directors of the Company are set out on pages 113 and 114. of Nominations Committee Director and Chair of Remuneration Committee Board balance and roles The composition of the Board has been structured to ensure that Alejandro Baillres Mara Asuncin noone individual can dominate the decision-making processes of Aramburuzabala theBoard.
The Chairman is beneficially interested in more than 50% ofthe share capital of the Company through his interest in Industrias Juan Bordes Javier Fernndez Peoles S. A.
B fide C. V Peoles, the Companys controlling Arturo Fernndez Fernando Ruiz shareholder.
The Chairman, Mr Baillres, is also the Chairman ofPeoles and other companies within the BAL Group.
Rafael MacGregor Fernando Solana Peoles has entered into a relationship agreement with the Company Chair of HSECR Committee which ensures that decisions in relation to transactions with Peoles Jaime Lomeln Guy Wilson must be taken by the independent Non-executive Directors of the former Chief Chair of Audit Committee Company.
The key provisions of the Relationship Agreement are summarised below.
Executive officer The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness as to all aspects of its role.
The Board considers Mara Asuncin Aramburuzabala, Lord Cairns, The separate roles of Chairman and of the Chief Executive officer Javier Fernndez, Fernando Ruiz, Fernando Solana, and Guy Wilson arerecognised and the requirements for these roles have been tobe independent in character and judgement.
For each of these specified in writing and agreed by the Board.
Following the retirement Directors, their circumstances are assessed by reference to Provision on 15 August 2012 of Jaime Lomeln who was the Chief Executive B.
1.1. of the Code and the Board remains satisfied that they are each officer prior to that date, the Statement of Responsibilities of the independent when the scenarios set out in Code Provision B.
1.1 are Chairman and Chief Executive officer was reviewed but left taken into account.
unchanged notwithstanding that the new Chief Executive officer, The Non-independent Directors listed above have been appointed to Octavio Alvdrez, is not currently a member of the Board.
the Board by Peoles pursuant to the Relationship Agreement.
Thus, The Senior Independent Director, Lord Cairns, is available to the Chairman was not independent at the time of his appointment.
shareholders if they have concerns that have not been resolved However, Mr Baillres has been responsible for overseeing the through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive officer, successful development of the Fresnillo Group over many years and, Chief Financial officer or Head of Investor Relations.
therefore, the Board considers that his continued involvement as its Non-executive Chairman is very important to the Company.
At the time of the Companys IPO in 2008, the Board sought to establish a transparent governance system, primarily through the Relationship Agreement, which ensures that the Company benets from Mr Baillres leadership and experience whilst being able to demonstrate to other shareholders that the Fresnillo Group is capableof carrying on its business independently.
In particular, the Relationship Agreement ensures that transactions and relationships between the Fresnillo Group and its major shareholder are at arms length and on competitive commercial terms.
Since that time, the Board has sought to build on that system.
Thus the duties of the AuditCommittee have since been expanded to ensure that financial aspects of related party transactions are reviewed by that committee.
Fernando Ruiz has, since 2008, been a retired partner and consultant in the rm Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia.
S. C. a rm providing professional services to the Company.
Guy Wilson retired as a partner of Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys auditors, in 2008.
Mr Wilson was not involved in the provision of audit or any other services to the Company by Ernst & Young LLP prior to his retirement.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 119 Related party governance in practice There are a number of checks and balances which ensure that there is full transparency in the way that related party transactions are dealt with by the Board.
The following diagram summarises these checks and balances: Monitoring of Directors Interests Negotiation of Transactions If a director is interested in a company which could potentially The negotiation of the terms of all major transactions is the enterinto transactions with a Fresnillo plc Group company, the responsibility of the Executive Committee.
The Executive Board will normally consider that interest under its arrangements for Committee will seek to ensure that the best possible terms authorising conicts of interest under section 175 of Companies Act.
Proposed Transaction Independent Director Approval Financial Appraisal The Audit Committee reviews the key terms of major transactions Under the Relationship Agreement, the Independent Directors must which are veried as to price and quality with external consultants approve any transaction without the Non-independent Directors where possible.
For example, KPMG provided benchmarking voting.
For example, the renewal of the Met-Mex contract was information in relation to the proposed New Shared Services approved by the Independent Directors in 2012.
120 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Corporate Governance Report continued Relationship Agreement Conicts of interests Since the time of the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange The duties to avoid potential conicts and to disclose such situations in May 2008, there has been a relationship agreement in place between for authorisation by the Board are the personal responsibility of each Peoles and the Company to regulate the ongoing relationship Director.
Each Director ensures that he she keep these duties under between them.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement review and inform the Company Secretary on an ongoing basis of is to ensure that the Fresnillo Group is capable of carrying on its anychange in their respective positions, such as new directorships business independently of the Peoles Group, and that transactions taken on.
and relationships with the Peoles Group are at arms length and on Each Director has completed a Directors List which sets out details normal commercial terms.
ofsituations where each Directors interests may conict with those Peoles has also undertaken not to exercise its voting rights to amend ofthe Company situational conicts.
The Directors Lists have been the Memorandum and Articles of Association in a way which would resubmitted by each Director as at 31 December 2012 and the Board be inconsistent with the provisions of the agreement.
It has also has considered and authorised any new situational conicts identied agreed to abstain from voting on any resolution to approve a related in these re-submitted lists.
In addition, Directors are reminded at the party transaction as dened in paragraph 11.1.
5 R of the Listing Rules beginning of each Board meeting to notify the Board of any further involving any member of the Peoles Group.
conicts of interest in accordance with sections 175, 177 and 182 of the Companies Act 2006.
Since 2008, the process by which the Relationship Agreement has been implemented has been developed as specic issues have been addressed by the Board and the Independent Directors under the terms of the Relationship Agreement: the current arrangements are summarised below.
Oversight of the Relationship Agreement The approach taken to ensure that the Relationship Agreement is fully implemented Responsibility Process Fresnillo Management Contract negotiation and Executive Committee Industry benchmarking reports Verication or independent valuation assessment Audit Committee review Financial scrutiny Independent Directors approve under Board approval the Relationship Agreement Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 121 Board process Board programme in 2012 The primary objective of the Board is to take responsibility for the The Board meets at least four times a year and has an established Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy and to monitor programme of meetings.
A key feature of the Boards evaluation the management of the Groups activities.
The Board also provides discussions since the Company was formed has been a desire to leadership to the Fresnillo Group in establishing the values by which focus more time on strategy during the Board discussions.
Thus, as itwill conduct its business.
During the year, more time has been well as the functions that it is required to perform as part of its annual allocated to presenting and discussing aspects of strategy as part cycle of activity, the Board now allocates time at each of its scheduled ofthe normal agenda for each Board meeting.
There is a formal meetings to strategic issues and discussion.
As a consequence, the schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision which includes key business of the Board at each of its main scheduled meetings approvals of major expenditure and investments and key policies.
thisyear was: Thisschedule was last revised in April2011.
Meeting Regular Activity Strategy A table of attendance of members of the Board and Board Key Activity and Approvals Presentation committees at meetings during the financial year ended 31 December 2012 is set out below.
All meetings of the Board are held in Mexico.
February Approval of 2011 Results Precious Metals Market and Annual Report The Company Secretary is responsible for preparing a draft agenda foreach Board meeting in conjunction with the Chief Executive officer April Board Lunch and Growth Strategy and the Chief Financial officer.
The Chairman approves the final StrategyDiscussion version of the agenda.
Papers are usually circulated about five days July Approval of Sustainable Development before the Board meeting concerned.
Interim Results and People Strategies Members of the Executive Committee are responsible for preparing October Approval of 2013 Financial Strategy papers in respect of strategic planning, policies and investment Business Plan and Budget proposals for each Board meeting.
All proposals presented to the Board for its consideration under the Schedule of Reserved Matters Approval of San Julin are first considered and approved by the Executive Committee.
Project Insodoing, the Executive Committee aims to ensure that any such proposals take into consideration those factors set out in section 172 The Board also received presentations, for its information only, of the Companies Act 2006.
Matters that purely require Executive concerning matters approved by the Executive Committee, under Committee approval are reported to the Board.
The topics covered by these presentations included the commercial arrangements for the procurement of long Led by the Chief Executive officer, members of the Executive lead-time equipment: an agreement with Orex Minerals in respect Committee attend all of the Board meetings and present all of the ofastake in a JV owning gold and silver claims in Durango, Mexico: papers on operational and financial matters.
The only discussions updates on the purchases of mining concessions: and investment which members of the Executive Committee are not present for are proposals in relation to projects to improve production.
discussions about management succession and the annual Board evaluation report discussion.
Between Board meetings Directors are provided with information onimportant developments and issues e. g. reports on fatalities.
The Directors may raise concerns at meetings of the Board and, ifnecessary, ask for such concerns to be recorded in the Board In addition to the four main scheduled meetings, an additional minutes.
Directors also have access to the advice and services of meetingwas convened in December 2012 for a specic discussion theCompany Secretary whose appointment and removal is a matter ofa corporate finance matter.
A procedure has been established to enable Directors to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense in relevant circumstances.
122 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Corporate Governance Report continued Following the presentation of the recommendations that IAL made Board development asa result of that process the IAL Recommendations to the Board Following recommendations made during the 2012 Board Evaluation inOctober 2011, the Chairman consulted with Directors and exercise, a number of initiatives have been taken to give the management and presented a proposed action plan the Action Plan Non-executive Directors more information about the broader in response to those recommendations at the Board meeting held contextto the Companys activities.
The Action Plan, which responded to 25 specic a presentation on Mexican political developments by an recommendations which had been made by IAL, was endorsed externalspeaker at the Board meeting in April: bytheBoard at that meeting.
The key elements of the Action Plan c ase study presentations by senior managers: and andsubsequent actions taken during 2012 are set out below.
r egular distribution of industry briengs on technical, market The Board agreed in October 2012 that its board evaluation exercise in andsector issues.
2012 the 2012 Board Evaluation would ensure that Board members were satisfied that the Action Plan was appropriate and had been Directors are encouraged to visit the Companys mines to familiarise properly implemented.
Thus, the 2012 Board Evaluation was themselves with the Fresnillo Groups operations.
The Non-executive conducted using an in-house questionnaire-based approach and Directors have visited at least one of the Groups locations and a wasfacilitated by the Company Secretary.
This exercise demonstrated number of the Independent Non-executive Directors visited the that, other than a few minor points, the Board was satisfied with Herradura mining district following the October Board meeting.
theeffectiveness of the Action Plan and that the benets of its All Directors have received briengs from the Companys advisers, implementation were beginning to be seen.
including presentations to familiarise them with their duties and responsibilities as directors of a UK listed company.
The Chairman Committee evaluation reviews ensures that the induction and training processes for new Directors Each of the Board committees annually reviews its own performance continues to be developed.
and the adequacy of its terms of reference.
Following a review of itsterms of reference in October 2012, the Audit Committee Board performance evaluation recommended certain minor changes to its terms of reference The Board recognises that sound governance has a role to play in whichhave been approved by the Board.
securing strategic success and strong performance as well as in protecting the interests of its shareholders.
Given the Companys Individual performance reviews particular ownership structure, the Board has, during the Companys The Chairman meets with the Non-executive Directors informally short history as a UK listed company, sought to use its annual Board fromtime to time without the executives present.
These meetings evaluation exercise to develop and improve its effectiveness.
provide an opportunity for the Chairman to ensure that the TheBoard is determined to make sure that it is working effectively Non-executive Directors training and development needs are tothe long-term benefit of all shareholders and recognises the role beingsatised.
The Independent Non-executive Directors met theDirectors collectively have to play in maintaining this focus.
toevaluate the performance of the Chairman in October 2012 In 2011, the Board appointed Independent Audit Limited IAL to following which the Senior Independent Director discussed undertake the first externally facilitated independent review of Board theviewsof the Independent Directors with the Chairman.
The main focus of that Board performance evaluation exercise was to provide an objective assessment of the Boards development since the IPO to ensure that it is fullling its role in theinterests of all of its shareholders.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 123 Board evaluation reviews The following table summarises the key findings of the 2011 and 2012 Board evaluation reviews.
2011 Key recommendations 2012 Outcome Strategy KPIs to be developed for monitoring people strategies This process was initiated with a discussion on people andunderstanding of organisational culture strategy at the July 2012 meeting and will be continued in2013 Education and information Board members to be provided with more information on Industry bulletins are now circulated to Directors from technical issues, market trends and political developments time to time.
The February strategy discussion focused on the precious metals market.
An external expert gave a presentation on political developments at the Board lunch in April Health & Safety Reports to be provided immediately on all fatalities and The Board members have received such reports on all associated action plans sixfatalities in 2012 Succession The Nominations Committee to report to the Board In April 2012, a presentation was made to the Board on morefullyon succession issues the succession plans for Executive Committee members Related party transactions The role of the Audit Committee in monitoring related party An external evaluation of the Audit Committee was transactions to be developed completed.
The Audit Committee has devoted more timeto receiving information on related party transactions and assessing related party activity 124 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Corporate Governance Report continued Board and Committee meeting attendance Audit HSECR Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Comments No.
of Meetings in year5 5 2 2 4 5 5 2 2 4 4 Alberto Baillres Ms Aramburuzabala was unable to attend a 2 3 Mara Asuncin meeting because of her involvement in a Aramburuzabala significant corporate transaction unrelated to theCompany.
3 3 Alejandro Baillres 5 5 Juan Bordes 4 5 4 4 Lord Cairns was unable to travel to a Lord Cairns Board meeting convened at short notice.
5 5 Arturo Fernndez Mr Fernndez was unable to attend one meeting 4 5 2 2 2 2 Javier Fernndez due to another commitment that he was unable to re-arrange.
5 5 2 2 Jaime Lomeln 5 5 2 2 Rafael MacGregor Due to a change to one of the Board meeting 4 5 4 5 1 2 2 4 Fernando Ruiz dates, MrRuiz was unable to attend Board and Committee meetings allheld on the same re-arranged day.
Mr Solana was unable to attend one meeting due 4 5 5 5 Fernando Solana to another business commitment abroad.
5 5 5 5 Guy Wilson Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 125 Relations with shareholders The Board seeks to ensure that the interests of minority shareholders The Company continues to recognise the value of being a member of in the Company are properly respected and aligned with those of the FTSE 100 Index and therefore continues to consider arrangements major shareholders.
As described on page 120, the Board maintains for increasing its free oat in order to satisfy the new free oat criteria.
procedures for dealing with transactions with Related Parties as well The Companys fifth annual general meeting will be held on Thursday as Directors conicts of interest.
The business of the Annual General Meeting AGM will The Company has an ofce in London where the Head of Investor be conducted in accordance with the provisions B.
The Group has implemented a strong E. 2.2 of the Code.
The Chairman of the Board and the chairmen of communications and investor relations programme since its listing each of the Board committees will be available to answer questions in2008 and aims to meet major shareholders and analysts at least put forward to them by shareholders of the Company.
The Annual twice a year to discuss the results of the Group and to respond to Report and Accounts and Notice of the Annual General Meeting will anyqueries the shareholders may have.
The Head of Investor Relations be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of in London maintains ongoing relations with analysts and major the meeting.
shareholders through telephone calls and meetings.
The Company In planning the business of each AGM, the Board takes account of also uses a full programme of mining conferences to meet with institutional shareholder guidelines on pre-emption rights, share current and prospective investors.
Contact with investors in Mexico buy-backs and shareholder rights in relation to general meetings when ismaintained through the Investor Relations Ofce in Mexico City.
drafting the usual resolutions dealing with those matters.
In each case, TheChief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer participate resolutions are presented to the AGM to give the Board exibility to inthe major roadshows to meet with analysts and shareholders.
Theyare joined by other members of the Executive Committee for some of these visits.
The Head of Investor Relations, supported by theChief Executive officer, gives a report at each Board meeting oncommunications and shareholder activity.
The principal investor relations and communications activities during 2012 were: Investor Relations Activity in 2012 Major Industry Conferences and Briengs in 2012 C onference call following the Production Results B MO Global Metals & Mining Conference announcement in January in February March R oadshows following the Preliminary Announcement B AML Global Metals & Mining Conference in May in March in the UK, USA and Canada D enver Gold Forum in September C onference calls following the Production Report G oldman Sachs Natural Resources Forum inApril in September I nterim Results roadshows in the UK and North America U BS Reverse Roadshow in November in July R BC Annual Silver Conference in December C onference calls following the Production Results announcement in October 126 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Corporate Governance Report continued Nominations Committee Report Dear Shareholder, Thinking for the long term has always This year has been a significant year for the Nominations Committee been ingrained into the culture and values and the Fresnillo plc Board.
Two new Non-executive Directors have been appointed and Octavio Alvdrez was appointed to theposition of this Company and it follows that change ofChief Executive officer following the retirement of Jaime Lomeln is not always rushed.
This is certainly true from that role in August.
I am delighted that the Board has been able tocontinue to benefit from Jaimes considerable knowledge of and of the work of the Nominations Committee experience in the mining industry in his new role as a Non-independent when dealing with Board succession.
The Board changes during 2012 are, however, the culmination of a process which has been overseen by the Nominations Committee since Fresnillo plc listed in 2008.
From the start, the Board and the Nominations Committee were aware that succession issues would need to be addressed and, additionally, during the intervening period, diversity in Board composition has become an issue that has attracted much comment.
Thinking for the long term has always been ingrained into the culture and values of this Company and it follows that change is not always rushed.
This is certainly true of the work of the Nominations Committee when dealing with Board succession.
Nevertheless, 2012 has been a year in which much of the thinking andplanning behind the scenes over the past few years has come tofruition.
The appointment of Mara Asuncin Aramburuzabala demonstrates our commitment both to gender diversity and to ensuring that the best qualied people serve on our Board.
At the timewe noted that the appointments of both Mariasun and AlejandroBaillres brought a broad range of experience of Mexican and international business to Board discussions, strengthening the overall mix of skills and experience on the Board.
They also give our Board amore balanced age prole within our group of Non-executive Directors.
This development sits well with the appointment of our newChief Executive officer which could be characterised as a passingof the stewardship of Fresnillo plc to a new generation.
The Nominations Committee will continue to monitor the membership of the Board to ensure that it provides the right leadership needs for the Company as it continues with its long-term growth strategy.
Yours faithfully Mr Alberto Baillres Chairman of the Nominations Committee Mr Alberto Baillres Chairman of the Nominations Committee Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 127 Membership Board appointments process The members of the Nominations Committee are Alberto Baillres The process for making new appointments to the Board is led by the Chairman of the Committee, Javier Fernndez and Fernando Ruiz.
Potential candidates are considered on the basis of their The majority of the members of the Nominations Committee are, skills and experience and their t with the blend of skills of the rest therefore, Independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board Appointments Policy provides a frame of reference for the process.
The candidates identied by the Chairman are presented to the Nominations Committee for approval prior to Role being recommended to the Board for appointment.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and composition The Nominations Committee did not use open advertising or retain of the Board and its committees and succession planning for the any external consultants when making new appointments to the Directors and other senior executives.
Before making appointments Board during the year as such assistance was considered ofnew Directors, the Committee is responsible for evaluating the unnecessary considering the Companys contacts within Mexico.
balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and identifying and nominating suitable candidates.
The terms of reference Nominations Committee activity during 2012 of the Nominations Committee are available on the Companys The Nominations Committee met twice during the year and website at www.
considered the following matters: The letters of appointment for the Non-executive Directors are made s uccession plans for each member of the Executive Committee: available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce, during t he appointment of new Non-executive Directors to the Board: normal business hours.
t he current membership of the Board and Board Committees: t he time commitment required from each Director: Board Appointments Policy t he proposed re-election of each of the Directors at the Annual The Nominations Committee and the Board are committed to the General Meeting and the continuation of letters of appointment principle of appointments to the Board being made on the basis forthe Non-executive Directors: and ofmerit.
The criteria for determining the composition of the Board andfuture Board appointments continues to be based on: a self-evaluation exercise.
t he Relationship Agreement requirements for appointments totheBoard by Peoles: t he Companys leading position as a precious metals miner inMexico: t he Companys inclusion in the FTSE 100 Index: t he specic functions on Board committees which independent Directors will be required to full: and t he criteria set out in the current terms of reference of the Nominations Committee.
The Nominations Committee has endorsed the Companys non-discrimination policy in relation to employment opportunities but recognises that within the mining industry opportunities to consider female appointments to the Board and senior positions may be more restricted than in other sectors.
The Nominations Committee has considered and will continue to consider female candidates for future appointment to the Board as part of the process of succession planning and future changes to the Board.
Aformal Board policy on diversity will be considered by the Nominations Committee during 2013.
128 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Corporate Governance Report continued Audit Committee Report Dear Shareholder, Our priorities over the next few years are The role of your Audit Committee has developed substantially over tomonitor the implementation of the risk thelast five years since our listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Initially, we focused on financial accounting and reporting together management controls ensuring that the with internal controls, concentrating on the judgemental areas in internal control environment responds thenancial statements.
This remains our first priority but we have taken on delegated responsibility from the Board for the oversight effectively to the organisational growth ofmanagements processes to implement the risk management ofthe Group monitoring the embedding framework, including the methodologies developed to address the requirements of the Bribery Act.
We have rened our methodologies ofrobust third party contractor to assess transactions with any related party, including access to independent advisers, to address the requirement to ensure that processes ensuring that the procedures anysuch transaction is on terms that are reasonable for all our for managing transactions with the shareholders.
We have facilitated a deeper understanding of the processes of internal and external audit and fostered greater controlling shareholder and related parties coordination between them to ensure that all the audit resources keep pace with emergingregulation and available to us are focused on the risks inherent in our strategy set outon pages 33-45 of the Annual Report.
best practice continuing the evaluation Next year, we will be required to report on whether we consider the ofexternal audit Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable.
The financial statements are prepared by management and reviewed for audit purposes by Ernst & Young LLP prior to being considered bythe Audit Committee.
Our hard-close audit for the 10 months to 31October 2012 greatly assists this process, enabling issues to be raised and resolved on a timely basis.
Our financial statements, subject to minor disclosure and presentational adjustments, have remained relatively stable over the past five years.
The Audit Committee members receive a draft of the full Annual Report some weeks prior to the March meeting, enabling them to ensure that the numbers therein are consistent with those in the financial statementsor are sourced from appropriate data.
More importantly, they can assess whether the words used are consistent with their understanding of the Companys business obtained through Board and Audit Committee meeting papers: discussions at those meetings: and other interaction that theyhave with management: using their experience to assess whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced andunderstandable.
The above, however, is history: our priorities over the next few years, in addition to our normal review of financial statements and related accounting policies, are: C ontinuing to monitor the implementation of the risk management controls to ensure that they are embedded within the organisation.
E nsuring that the internal control environment responds effectively to the organisational growth of the Group as implementation of our strategy unfolds and that internal audit is appropriately aligned in accordance with the suggestions included in Independent Audit Ltds independent report that we commissioned this year.
Mr Guy Wilson M onitoring the embedding of robust third party contractor processes.
Chairman of the Audit Committee E nsuring that the procedures for managing transactions with the controlling shareholder and related parties keep pace with emerging regulation and best practice.
C ontinuing the evaluation of external audit and, following the evaluation questionnaire exercise that we conducted this year, wewill conduct an independent evaluation in 2013.
Yours faithfully Mr Guy Wilson Chairman of the Audit Committee Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 129 In February 2012, the Audit Committee reviewed the 2011 Annual Audit Committee Constitution Report and financial statements for the year-ended 31 December The members of the Audit Committee at 31 December 2012 were 2011, and the results of the year-end audit, prior to recommending GuyWilson Chairman of the Committee, Fernando Ruiz and them to the Board for approval.
Prior to approval, the Board Fernando Solana.
Guy Wilson was previously a partner at Ernst & considered the consistency of the accounting policies adopted Young and is therefore considered to have recent and relevant andthe application of accounting standards.
Particular areas of focus financial, auditing and accounting experience.
for the Audit Committee were: The Audit Committee met five times in the year.
The duties of the t he depreciation of mining assets: Audit Committee set out in its terms of reference are set out under t he mine closure model and valuations: thefollowing headings: the allocation of exploration expenditure between capital cost F inancial Reporting andrevenue expense: Risk Management and Internal Controls t he impact of exchange rate movements: W histleblowing Procedures t he judgements used in calculating the PTU charge: I nternal Audit t he basis of calculation of the Groups tax charge: E xternal Audit t he valuation of the Silverstream Contract: and R elated Party Matters t he going concern basis for preparing the accounts.
The following sections summarise how the Audit Committee has A number of these areas of focus have been reviewed each year since fullled its duties during the year.
the Audit Committee began its work, as these are the key areas of audit The Audit Committee uses regular evaluation processes as a means risk and judgement for the Company.
Each year, including 2011 and of ensuring that the controls governance environment is appropriate.
2012, the importance of each of these areas is re-assessed with During 2012, the Company Secretary facilitated the evaluation of the management and Ernst & Young to ensure that it remains a valid area of Audit Committee itself through an informal discussion among the focus and that there are no other financial risk areas to consider.
Since members of the Committee.
As a result of that discussion, minor 2008, the Audit Committee has rened its processes and methods to amendments to the terms of reference of the Audit Committee were ensure that it is satisfied with appropriateness of the financial reporting.
proposed to and approved by the Board in March 2013.
The Company In August 2012, the Audit Committee reviewed the 2012 interim Secretary has also facilitated an internal evaluation of the external financial results before recommending them to the Board for approval.
Independent Audit Limited, In undertaking that review, the Audit Committee sought to ensure that an external consultancy who facilitated the Board evaluation process issues discussed during the review process for the full-year financial and reviewed the Audit Committee process in 2011, has also statements had been progressed and that there was consistency undertaken reviews of the internal audit function and the risk between the policies and judgements used in preparing the full-year governance framework.
In March 2013, the Audit Committee reviewed the Annual Report and Financial reporting the financial statements for the year-ended 31 December 2012 prior to A key aspect of the Audit Committees activity is its oversight of the recommending them to the Board for approval.
As part of that review Companys financial reporting and its programme of meetings process, the members of the Committee were provided with a draft hasbeen developed to enable it to full this key responsibility.
ofthose documents a few weeks prior to formal review by the Audit Committee and Board in order to ensure that they could satisfy Timing of Audit Financial Reporting themselves that both the financial statements and the related reports Committee Meeting Oversight Activity are consistent with their knowledge of the business and, therefore, July August Review of Interim Report that the Annual Report was being developed in a way that they consider to be fair, balanced and understandable.
This additional October Year-end audit planning review by Audit Committee members, supplemented by advice December Hard-close initial review and progress update received from external advisors during the drafting process assists theBoard in determining that the report is fair, balanced and February March Review of Annual Report understandable at the time that it is approved.
April Follow-up Issues The Audit Committee has evolved its approach to evaluating the going concern basis of preparation for the statutory accounts.
This includes assessing whether, in adverse circumstances, there are adequate liquid resources to full the stated strategy.
This means that with production proles at each mine being relatively predictable and with budgeted expenditure for capital investment and exploration being necessary to achieve the strategy, the fundamental risk lies in metal prices, as PTU, tax and dividends are mathematical calculations from operating results.
The approach, therefore, is to ex silver and gold prices down to a level at which the Company exhausts its cash resources at 31December 2014.
Those exed prices are compared to all available external market predictions of the worst future prices of those metals and then, only if not satisfied that there is an adequate cash margin even at those depressed prices, would the Board consider what other actions management could take to ensure adequate cash resources.
130 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Corporate Governance Report continued In December each year, the Audit Committee agrees the process by Risk Management and Internal Controls which the Board will undertake a review of the Groups system of Since 2008, the Audit Committee has invested a significant amount internal controls.
The outcome of that review is considered by the ofits time overseeing the development of the Companys risk Audit Committee in the following February March, prior to submission governance processes and risk management framework.
to the Board which then decides on the statement to be made about Thisprocesshas been led by the Chief Financial officer and the review of the system of internal control.
During this time, internal management resources devoted to risk management have been The Group has in place internal controls and risk management systems established.
The remit of the risk management function has evolved in relation to the Groups financial reporting system process and the taking account of the changing requirements of the UK Corporate Groups process for preparing consolidated accounts.
These systems Governance Code in relation to risk appetite and tolerance, and the include policies and procedures to ensure that adequate accounting requirements of the UK Bribery Act.
The Audit Committee now records are maintained and transactions are recorded accurately and receives update reports on risk and the ongoing implementation of fairly to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance the Fresnillo Groups bribery and anti-corruption programme at each with IFRS.
Similar reports are also made to the Board as a whole.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal The development of the risk governance system now provides a control, which includes risk management, and reviewing its robust framework enabling the Audit Committee and the Board to effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to identify, evaluate continuously the risk prole of the Group and adapt its focus evaluate and manage significant risks associated with the achievement in response to changes to the risk prole.
The Audit Committee and of the Groups objectives.
Because of the limitations inherent in any Board formally reviewed the Principal Risks and Uncertainties of the system of internal control, the Groups system is designed to meet its Group prior to the publication of both the full year and interim financial particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
It is designed to statements.
In 2012, this process resulted in the addition of a new manage risk rather than eliminate risk altogether.
Consequently, it can Principal Risk the increase in public perception that mining activity only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material isnot commensurate with the sustainability of local communities misstatement or loss.
Further details of the Risk Management System The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee its responsibility for are set out on pages 46-55. reviewing the effectiveness of these controls.
The Audit Committee During the year, the Company engaged Independent Audit Limited to reviews the system of internal control on an annual basis.
The undertake an external evaluation of the Companys risk governance day-to-day responsibility for managing risk and the maintenance of arrangements in order to provide assurance that the risk governance theGroups system of internal control is collectively assumed by the system is achieving its objectives.
The results of that review were Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee is supported in this considered in December 2012 and the recommendations for task by the Internal Audit Department.
renements in the processes are now being evaluated.
The risk categories set out in the risk matrix were used as the basis for the process of reviewing the system of internal controls.
The Internal Audit Department obtained letters of representation from the Executive Committee and the executive management on the Groups system of internal control.
Internal Controls There are a number of components to the system of internal controls within the Company detailed below and assurance concerning the system of internal controls focuses on these components: Component of the System ofInternalControl Basis for Assurance The Group risk matrix.
Updated twice annually by the Executive Committee and Internal Auditdepartment.
A framework of transaction and entity level controls to prevent Reviews undertaken by the Internal Auditdepartment.
anddetect material error and loss.
A documented structure of delegated authorities and approvals Monitored and reviewed by the Internal Audit department.
fortransaction and investment decisions, including any with relatedparties.
Controls and procedures set out in the Companys Accounting Monitored and reviewed by the Internal Audit department.
Annual written representations obtained from operational and functional management.
Review process performed by the Executive Committee.
A programme of internal audit reviews conducted by the Groups Reports prepared by the Internal Audit department are discussedwith Internal Auditdepartment.
management prior to nalisation and reviewed bythe Audit Committee.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 131 The Board has, through the Executive Committee and the Audit Internal Audit Committee at its March 2013 meeting, reviewed the effectiveness of Internal Audit services are provided to the Company under a Shared the Groups system of internal controls taking account of the matters Services Agreement between the Company and Peoles.
On the basis of this review, the Board considers that the of the services provided by Internal Audit is closely monitored by the measures that have been implemented to create an appropriate risk Audit Committee and each year an Internal Audit Plan is reviewed by management framework are appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
the Audit Committee at its meeting in October.
The Audit Committee considers the level and quality of the resources within the Internal An area of ongoing focus in the Companys risk management activities Audit Department and its appropriateness to the needs of the and review of internal control is the increased use of contractors in Fresnillo Group.
The internal audit workplan for 2013 was presented theGroups operations as a result of the expansion of activities in toand approved by the Audit Committee at its October 2012 meeting.
exploration, mine development and production.
The Board and the Any changes to the plan during the year are agreed with the Audit Committee have received regular reports from Internal Audit AuditCommittee.
with respect to contractors activities across our portfolio during the year and have reviewed action plans presented by management The Internal Audit team seek to complete audits of all of the Fresnillo setting out a number of improvements to the internal control Groups mining assets on a regular basis.
Particular focus continues environment with a special emphasis on the contractors governance tobe placed on auditing the Groups new mines to ensure that proper process in which we have continued to experience difficulties.
procedures are implemented in those new operations.
The Audit Areasof specic focus include the procurement and effective ongoing Committee receives presentations and updates from the Group oversight of contractor services and ensuring that all activities reect Internal Audit Department at each of its meetings throughout the year.
our focus on, and commitment to, safety.
These initiatives are being At each meeting during the year, the Audit Committee has focused on included in the development of related embedded risk management the progress made by management in dealing with red ag items and assurance processes and will continue to be an area of focus raised during internal audit visits to ensure that the management forInternal Audit across our operations.
The Board and the Audit responses to remediation are appropriate and timely.
Committee will continue to closely monitor the implementation During 2012, the Audit Committee asked the Internal Audit Department andprogress of these initiatives during 2013. to undertake a pan-Group review of third party contractor The Board is committed to the continued development of its internal arrangements: a different approach to the usual mine-based internal control regime with a view to achieving and maintaining best practice audit approach.
The Audit Committee invited the Chief Executive levels of risk management and internal control for international mining officer and other members of the Executive Committee to attend its companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
discussion of the audit findings.
The resourcing of the internal audit function was reviewed during the Whistleblowing arrangements year.
It is anticipated that there will be an increase in resourcing to The Groups arrangements for enabling employees to raise concerns takeaccount of the expanded responsibilities of the Internal Audit about financial and non-financial improprieties have developed over Department as a result of the expansion of the Groups mining assets, the past few years, prompted in part by the requirements of the UK increased third party contractor activity and the assurance activity Bribery Act.
An internal body called The Honour Commission has required to ascertain that the Group is properly implementing been established to oversee these arrangements.
The terms of adequate procedures under the UK Bribery Act.
reference of the Honour Commission also embrace the procedures adopted in response to the Bribery Act.
The Honour Commission, The Head of Internal Audit meets with the members of the Audit comprised of the Chief Executive, the Compliance officer currently Committee without management present twice a year and is the Chief Financial officer, the Director of Internal Audit, the Vice mandated to advise the Chairman of the Audit Committee if there President of Exploration and the Legal Manager.
The Audit Committee areany issues which he considers should be brought to the attention regularly receives reports from management concerning the of the Audit Committee.
discussions and decisions of the Honour Commission.
The Audit Committee commissioned Independent Audit Limited toundertake an external review of the Internal Audit Department.
The Fresnillo Plays Fair whistleblower hotline allows stakeholders to Thendings of that review were discussed during a meeting between anonymously via an independent third party report violations to the the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chief Financial officer, Groups Code of Conduct.
The results are audited by an independent theHead of Internal Audit and the Internal Audit Manager.
The final third party and classied in 25 different categories including, but not report from Independent Audit Limited was discussed at the Audit limited to: high-risk conditions, violence, fraud, inappropriate use of Committee meeting in December 2012 at which the Chief Executive condential information, accounting irregularities, conict of interest, officer was present and the recommendations are being evaluated.
client complaints, theft, unethical treatment of clients, unethical treatment of suppliers, discrimination, falsification of company records, improper use of assets, bribery and sexual harassment.
Fivereports were received via the hotline in 2012.
The Honour Commission has reviewed the actions being taken in response to eachreport.
Four were concluded by the end of the year and one case, originating in November 2012, was still awaiting final resolution at the end of the year.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing these arrangementswhich it does at each meeting: and it is satisfied thatthey remain adequate.
132 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Corporate Governance Report continued services is pre-approved.
Any engagement of the external auditor External auditor toprovide permitted services above US$150,000 is subject to the The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the external specicapproval of the Audit Committee.
This policy was confirmed auditor.
In October 2011, the Audit Committee reviewed the terms atthe October 2012 meeting of the Audit Committee.
The Audit ofengagement of Ernst & Young LLP, the external auditor, for the Committee reviewed the levels of engagement of other audit rms financial statements included in the 2011 Annual Report and in and advisors atits October and December meetings.
Details of the October 2012, it reviewed the terms of engagement in respect of fees paid toErnst & Young LLP during the year as shown in note 27 theaudit of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December tothe FinancialStatements were US$1.86 million, and the fees paid 2012.
In October 2012, the Audit Committee also approved audit tootheraccountants and advisory rms were US$1.12 million.
plansand timescales prior to the year-end audit.
During the year, the Audit Committee considered future plans for As part of its review of the financial statements prepared by the bothauditor and audit partner rotation, taking account of the current Company, the Audit Committee reviewed the findings of the external requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and associated auditor in respect of the financial statements for the year ended guidance from the Financial Reporting Council on audit tendering.
31December 2011 at its February 2012 meeting and in respect of Itiscurrently envisaged that the audit will be put out to tender in about thenancial statements for the six-month period ending on 30 June four years unless circumstances change.
As part of these reviews, the Audit Committee met with representatives from Ernst & Young LLP without Transactions with related parties management present, and with management without representatives of Ernst & Young present, to ensure that there are no issues in the The Shared Services Agreement is an agreement between the relationship between management and the external auditor which Company and Peoles under which a range of services are provided itshould address.
The Audit Committee also to the Company by Peoles.
The Shared Services Agreement was approved the respective representation letters given to Ernst & Young initially put in place in 2009 and has been renewed with effect from 31 LLP at each of those meetings.
KPMG has been engaged to facilitate the new Shared Services Agreement and an important element of their work has been In addition, the Audit Committee reviewed the initial findings of the to ensure that the scope ofservices to be provided is appropriate to hard-close audit undertaken by Ernst & Young LLP in respect of the needs of the Fresnillo Group and that the pricing for services theperiod to 31 October 2012 at its meeting in December 2012. provided under the Shared Services Agreement is appropriately In April 2012, the Audit Committee reviewed the management letters benchmarked.
Key Performance Indicators have been established.
and recommendations made by the external auditor in the course of The Audit Committee has received reports on the revised Shared their work.
During the year, the Audit Committee has monitored the Services Agreement from KPMG at each of its meetings in July, increasing and evolving collaboration between Ernst & Young LLP October and December 2012.
At the request of the Audit Committee, andthe Companys Internal Audit Department, which it believes is the Companys UK legal advisers, Linklaters, reviewed the terms of the improving the efficiency of both the external and internal audit Shared Services Agreement andthe facts surrounding its negotiation processes.
and confirmed that the arrangements were in the ordinary course of business, not on unusualterms and had been negotiated on an arms In February 2012, the Audit Committee considered and recommended length basis.
They recommended that the Shared Services Agreement the re-appointment of the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, to the be approved by the Independent Non-executive Directors, as required Board prior to the Companys annual general meeting.
This review by the Relationship Agreement, and such approval was obtained.
took account of the results of the auditor assessment process, the quality of the work and communication by the external auditor and The Audit Committee also reviews the financial and commercial thelevel of audit fees.
During the second half of 2012, the Company aspects of any transaction proposed between the Fresnillo Group Secretary facilitated an internal evaluation of the External Auditor andthe Peoles Group prior to such matters being considered by which involved members of the Audit Committee, the Chief Financial theIndependent Non-executive Directors under the terms of the officer, senior finance executives and representatives from Internal Relationship Agreement or in compliance with Chapter 11 of the Audit.
The results of the survey were reviewed by the Audit Committee Listing Rules.
During the year, the Audit Committee has considered the in December 2012.
Although these were broadly satisfactory, proposed charges in respect of the Met-Mex Arrangements for 2012. management and Ernst & Young LLP have agreed a few measures Based on the satisfactory outcome of that review, the Chairman of the toenhance the audit process.
Audit Committee recommended to the Board that the Independent Directors approve the proposed charges for 2012 under the Met-Mex The Audit Committee is mindful of its responsibility to ensure that the Arrangements which they did in October 2012.
In October and external auditor maintains its independence and objectivity.
It has December 2012 and March 2013, the Audit Committee reviewed a therefore reviewed, and is satisfied with, the independence of Ernst & schedule of all of the Companys related party transactions during Young LLP as the external auditor.
The Audit Committee has a policy in theyear and was satisfied that all transactions listed, other than place in respect of the provision of non-audit services to the Fresnillo thosein relation to the Shared Services Agreement or the Met-Mex Group by the external auditor.
The engagement of the external auditor Arrangement described above, were in the ordinary course of business.
to provide statutory audit, assurance, taxation and certain advisory The Corporate Governance Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc.
Signed on behalf of the Board Lord Cairns Senior Independent Director 11 March 2013
